Docuiment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
/   ~~I- AS bl--- CH-
Report No.9384-CH
STAFF APPRATSAL REPORT
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO .ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
April 26, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Operations Division
Country Department IV
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distirbution and may be used by redpients onily in the performance of
their offici'al duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Chilean Peso (Ch$)
1 US$ = 337.09 Ch$ (December 31, 1990)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC         Average Incremental Cost
CAS         Caracteristicas Socioecon6micas (Means Test for Social Benefits)
Ch$         Chilean Pesos
CORFO       Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n
EMOS        Empresa Metropolitana de Obras Sanitarias S.A.
ESVAL       Empresa de Obras Sanitarias de Valparaiso S.A.
GoCh        Government of C ile
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
lcd         liter per capita per day
MCM/yr      million cubic meter per year
MOP         Ministry of Public Works
MIDEPLAN    Ministry of Planning
OECF        Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
RoCh        Republic of Chile
SENDOS      Servicio Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
BSS         Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios
VAT         Value-Added Tax



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT'
Table of Contmntg
LOgN AND PROJECT SUMHARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .i
1.    THE  SECTOR  .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  . ...........                 1
Population and Service Levele................    1
Water Contamination and Public Health  ...99...                      1
Sector Organization anization. .  ........                           1
Sector Performance  . *.  . . .  . o  . . .     o. . . .  . . . . .     2
Pricing of Water Supply and Sewerage Services . . . . . . . . . . .   3
Affordability to the Lower-Income Population  . . . . . . . . . .    4
Sector Investments and Financing  .     .. ...... . .                5
Sector objectivea and Policies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   S
Bank Involvement in the Sector  . . . ............ . .         .    5
Lessons from Past Experience  . . . . . . . .       . . . . . .      6
2.  THE FIFTH REGION AND THE BORROWER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Population and Health .   . . ... .  . . .   . . .  ..   . . . ..    7
Water and Sewerage Demand and Supply  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
Capital Inveetment Program  ....................    7
Water and Sewerage Tariff . . . . . . . . . .                        8 . . . . . . . .  a
Affordability to the Lower-Income Population  . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Management, Organization and Personnel  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Training  . . .Tann . . . . . .  . . . . 9    . . . .  . . . . .  10
Operation anMaintenance       ce....         *. . .          .      11
Metering, Billing and Collection  .                            9   12
Insurance . . . . . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
Accounting and Auditing . . . . . . . .    .    . 9 9.    . . 9 .   13
Past Financial Performance  .........         ...*...               13
3.    THE  PROJECT   .  .  .   .   .   .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  14
Project Origin  .. . . . . *9 .9    . .  * *.*.       . . . . . .   14
Rationale for Bank Involvement  . . . . . .   . . . . . .. . . .   14
Project Objectives  .         . . . . . . . . . . .    . .          14
Water Supply in the Greater Valparaiso Area . . . . . . .  . . . . .  15
Sewage Collection/Disposal in the Greater Valparaiso Area . . . . .  16
Project Description . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    17
Project  Cost    .  .  .    .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  .  .  .  18
Project Financing Plan  . . . . . . . . . ..                 . .   19
Project Implementation  . . .    .....* ..    . .......  20
Procurement *.** . . .    . . . . . .    * . . . . . . . . . .    . . . .  21
Disbursements . . . . . . . . .   .        9.*    **.  .   9 * * . .  23
'This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that
visited Chile from November 27 to December 13, 1990. The mission was composed
of Mr. Emanuel Idelovitch, Sr. Sanitary Engineer (Mission Leader), Mr. Franz
Kriegler, Financial Analyst, and Me. Marta Molares, Lawyer.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
4. ZIMCIAL = Egg=OiMITIFICATIO   ............ . . . .  24
FinancLal Evaluation  . .       @ . . .   .. . . .. . . e.9         24
Project Justification and Beneffts  . . . . # *. . . . . *   . * . .  26
Environmental Impact . ..................   * ........a...... 28
Social Impact . o . .  o . . . . . . e . . . . . . &  0.   . a * . . .  29
Risks and Safeguards       ..*...... . oo....o.           .. .    29
5. ?IR-EEHNTS RECE        RECQ=NDAT1ONS  . . . . . . . . . o . . . . o  30
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1s ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS  . . . . . .o.  . .  . .  . . . . .  . . .  .  19
Table 2: FINANCING PLAN . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Table 3: PROJECT COST BY PROCUREMENT METHOD . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
LIST OF ANNEXES
1.   Water and Sewerage Rates by Region  . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . .32
2.   Targeted Subsidy for Water and Sewerage . .    .  . .  .  . . . . 33
3.   Water Sector Investments, 1970-1990 . . . . . .  .  . .       . . .    . 35
4.   Supply and Demand in ESVALs Service Area . . . . . o o . ....   . . . 36
5.   ESVAL's Capital Investment Program, 1991-2000 . .  . . . . . . . . . 39
6.   ESVAL's Tariff  . . . .  * . . . . * . . .     .  . . . . . .  . . . . 40
7.   ESVAL' Organizational Charts . . . . . . ... ...  . . . ... . . 41
8.    Institutional Assessment of ESVAL  . . . . . .  . . .  . . .. . . 44
9.   ESVAL's Training Program for 1991 . . . . .   .  . .  .  .  . . .  . 45
10.  ESVAL's Collection Record . . .  . .     . . .  .  . .  .  . . . . . .46
11.  Greater Valparaiso Water Demand and Supply  * . . .. . . . ..  .    e . .47
12.  Greater Valparaiso Sewerage System - Comparison of Alternatives . . . 50
13.  Detailed Project Description  ...................... * .            54
14.  Detailed Project Cost Estimate  . . . . .  .  . .  . .  .      .  .  56
15.  Project Implementation Schedule. . . . . .  . .   . . .  . . . . 58
16.  Monitorng Indcatora . .   o . . ...         . . ....  . . . . . .  . . . 59
17.   Limits on Types of Procurement and Prior Review Treshold  . . . . . . 60
18.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds . . . . . . .  . .        . .  .  .  . . .. . .  61
19.  Loan Disbursement Schedule   .*................. 62
20.   Financial Projections of ESVAL    . .   . .    . ..   . . .  . . ... .63
21.   Economic Evaluation of Project  .     .    .    . .    .. .     . . . .69
22.   Environmental Assessment  .......            . ..........  .81
23.   LLt of Documents and Data Available in Project FLles . . . . . . . . 85
MAPS
IBRD 22903 .reater Valparai3o Proposed Sewage Disposal Scheme
IBRD 22904 Greater Valparaiso Water Supply Scheme



- 1ii -
LO    AND  ReCT S=
eS23sAdxUI    Emprosa de obras Sanitarias de Valparaiso S.A. (ESVAL)
Gusran&=8   The Republic of Chile.
Amounts       US$50.0 million, equivalent.
Tormet        Repayment in 17 years, including 5 years of grace, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Obiectiyts:  The project has three major objectivest (a) to improve sanitary
conditions in the Greater Valparaiso Area, mainly with respect to
the water quality of public beaches; (b) to improve water supply
conditions in the Greater Valparaiso Area, with respect to
quantity, quality and service pressure; and (c) to restructure
ESVAL by increasing its operational efficiency so that it would be
able to carry out successfully its investment and development
program resulting from the above objectives.
Deowriojtion:  The proposed project covers the bulk of ESVAL's investment program
for the period 1991-97, and deals mainly with the urgent water
supply and sewage disposal needs of the Greater Valparaiso Area.
it includes four main components:  (A) jyr4aae and pollution
control (47%), including construction of secondary collectors,
main collectors, pumping stations, and sewage treatment and
disposal   facilities;  (B)  Water  suoolv   (360),   including
construction of production facilities, a transmission main, water
treatment facilities, distribution pipes and storage tan.s; (C)
Institutional imProvements (9%), including acquiaition of 0o^"
equipment and office equipment, a consumers' survey, the
preparation of a development plan, technical cooperation and
training; and (D) Consultina services (8%), including engineering
and supervision, monitoring of the marine sewage dieposal system
before and after project completion, feasibility studies and
designs for water supply and sewerage systems of the northern and
the southern coast of the Fifth Region.
Bene-fi Al-a  The project would yield economic,  environmental  and social
benefits. Economic benefits include increased revenues from water
and sewerage service sales, resulting mostly from increased rates
as well as from additional connections, and decreased operational
costs resulting from the optimization of the system and the
reduction of losses. Environmental benefits will be achieved by
alleviating the pollution of the area's streams, public beaches,
and ocean. Social benefits Lnclude uniformiLatLon of the quallty
of the water service, which will benefit the urban poor who suffer
most from the present defLcLencies, public health improvements,
and the provision of local employment during construction.



- Iv -
Riks aind
gafRgurdst   Two types of risks are foreseen.  Th. first is relatAcI to the
limited technical, managerial and oxecuting c4pacity of ZSVAL,
which may result in delays and cost rverruns. To minimize this
risk, agreement was reached during negotiations that 5VAL would:
(a) submit to the Bank not latar than September 30, 1991, a
detailed play of action and timetable for dealLng with the
identified institutLonal limLtations, a.. implement such plan;
(b) carry out its planned reorganigation not later than September
30, 1991; and (c) submit to the Bank noe later than November 30,
1991, a training program for its staff aimed at lnstitutional
strengthening, and implement such plan. The second risk would be
the limited availability of funds generated by BSVAL, if preoent
legislation on water and sewerago tariffs is adversely altered or
inadequately  implemented.    Agreements  were  reached  during
negotiations, that the present Government policy on tariffs would
continue to be implemented, and that ESVAL would raise tariffs for
its customers to the maximum stipulated by the present
legislation.
Estimated Project Costs (in US$ million)s
component                                 LeQ2L       ETrfLa        oLtal
A. Sewerage and Pollution Control            18.3        19.6       37.9
S. Water Supply                              13.3        15.4       28.7
C. Institutional Improvements                 2.6         4.3        6.9
D. Consulting Services                        4.2         2.4        6.6
BASE COST (December 1990)                    38.3        413L        0A.0
Physical Contingencies (10%)             3.8         4.2        8.0
Price Contingencies                     19.4         4.1      23.5
TOTAL PROJECT COST (not of duties & tax)    61.5         50 0      111.5
Import Duties and VAT                   30.0                  30.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST (incl. duties & tax)      91.S       IQ A          5



FInancinO _lan (in US$ million):
P r o j e c t   Cos a t    Duties      Total
Source       Local    orsn   DtA,  and TaX           Coot
World Bank             50.0       50.0     ----      50.0
ESVAL         61.5                61.5     30.0      91.5
Total        1,1.5  M. 5                   30I.0    141. 5
Estim&tes_ Bank Disbursemen   (in USS million)t
Bank FY      2994                           21        96        U7 2A
Annual       7.6       7.6        9.0       9.8       8.2        5.5       2.3
cumulative   7.6      15.2       24.2      34.0      42.2       47.7      50.0
Rate of Return:       14.6%



1. THE SECTOR
Ponulation and Service_Levelsq
1.1   Chile' population, estimated at 12.7 million in 1988, ia projected
to grow in the next decade at an annual rate of 1. 5%.   The urban
population accounts for approximately 84% of the total and is expected to
grow at an annual rate of 1.73%.  The rural population, of which only
about 30% is concentrated in villages of 150 to 3000 inhabitants, is
projected to decrease.
1.2   About half of the country's urban population lives in the Santiago
Metropolitan Area, whereas the Greater Valparaiso Area is the third
largest urban area of the country (the second is Concepci6n), with a
current population of about 770,000.
1.3   In the last two decades Chile has made significant progress in the
provision of water and sewerage services to its population. Chile's water
and seweraga service coverage is among the highest in Latin America. In
1988 about 98% of the urban and 75% of the rural population had access to
water through house connections, whereas about 81% of the urban population
was connected to central sewerage systems. The rural population without
house connections, which is mostly dispersed, is supplied by wells or
central otandpipes serving several households.
Water Contamination and Public Health
1.4   The remarkable achievements in service levels have been offset to a
considerable degree by the water pollution problems caused by the
discharge of large quantities of untreated sewage into natural water
courses: rivers and irrigation canals in the Santiago Metropolitan Area,
public beaches and the Pacific Ocean in the Greater Valparaiso Area.
1.5   Life expectancy in the last decade was 71.5 years.  Infant mortality
in 1987 was 18.5 per 1,000 live births, which is lower than in Chile's
neighboring  countries.    Available data  indicate that water-related
diseases, such as enteritis and other diarrheal diseases, account for a
relatively small percentage of the causes of mortality. However, typhoid
fever and hepatitis are particularly prevalent, with high morbidity rates
especially in the Santiago Metropolitan Area during the summer season.
Sector Organization
1.6   The water and sewerage sector in Chile has undergone major changes
in the last few years,  and is now at the stage of completing the
institutional changes and stabilizing the activity under the new setup.
The two largest water companies--EMOS (Empresa Metropolitana de Obras
Sanitarias) and ESVAL (Empresa de Obras Sanitarias de Valparaiso)--were
converted in 1989 from public sector agencies under the MOP (Ministry of
Public Works) to shareholding companies, whose main shareholders are CORFO
(Corporaci6n db Fomento de la Producci6n) and the RoCh (Republic of
Chile). In 1990, the 11 regional offices of SENDOS (servicio Nacional de
Obras Sanitarias) were also transformed into corporations with an
organization similar to that of EROS and ESVAL. As the RoCh is the main



-2-
shareholder, their operational and mapita1 investment budgets require the
approval of the Miniotry of Finance, and MIDEPLAN (the Planning Ministry)
reviews their investment programs.
1.7   A new entity created in January 1990, the Superintendencia de
Servicios Sanitarios (555), has replaced SENDOS in ito supervisory and
regulatory roles. The S88 is an autonomous, decentralized entity, with
juridical personality and independent budget, supervised by the President
of the RoCh through the MOP. Its main functions are:
(a)   the setting up of and control of compliance with norms and
technical standards for the design, construction, and
operation of water and sewerage services, as well as of
industrial wastewater discharges, including the application of
sanctions in case of non-compliance with standards;
(b)   the determination of tariffs for all water and sewerage
companies and the control of their implementation; and
(c)   the granting of concessions for water supply and sewerage
services.
The above functions are carried out by three Departments: Regulation and
Control,  Tariffs,  and  Legal,  respectively.    8SS  has  at  present
45 employees, of which 33 are professionals (mostly ex-SENDOS engineers).
The activity of this new entity is still in its infancy.   It has an
ambitious work program but, at the same time, no plans for increasing its
personnel. Some of the major topics included in its present work plan
are: the review and updating of existing water and sewerage norms and
standards; the preparation of operational manuals for water and sewerage
services as well as for industrial wastewater disposal facilities; the
preparation of a study aimed at identifying sources of industrial
wastewater that may contaminate the environment; the setting up of
environmental requirements for all new industries; and training of
personnel in subjects related to industrial wastewater discharge, which is
relatively new in Chile. To help 8SS in its activity, the Bank plans to
include  in  its  Technical  Assistance  project  for  Environmental
Institutional Development (now under preparation) the financing of foreign
consultants who will assist SSS in carrying out some of its tasks and
training activities.
Sector Performanae
1.8   Chile has made significant progress in the last two decades in
expanding its water supply and sewerage services. This is reflected in:
very high water and high sewerage coverage levels (the highest in Latin
America), low ratio of employees to water connections (among the lowest in
Latin America), and the adoption of the first steps toward a sound tarl. X
pollcy based on long-run average cost. Nevertheless, there are still two
major problems to be addressed in the water sector:



-3
(a)   high rates of unaccounted-for water (40% to 45% in both the
Santiago Hetropolitan Area and the Greater ValparaSso Area),
which result in poor utilization of exioting resources and
unreliable servicel and
(b)   aerious water  contamination  problems  resulting  from  the
discharge of large quantities of untreated sewage into natural
water courses, particularly in the largest urban areas of the
countrys Santiago, Concepci6n, and Greater Valparaiso.
Pricing of Water SuviRpl and-SewerAge Servlice
1.9   Rates for water and sewerage in most parts of Chile have been quite
low for many years. While in the Metropolitan and Valparaiso regions they
covered operating costs, debt service and part of the capital investment
coBts, in the other regions they were barely sufficient to cover the cost
of operation. After many years of studies, in 1988 the approach of the
GoCh (Government of Chile) to pricing of water supply and sewerage
services underwent a radical change which brought the policy in this
sector more in line with its overall policy of letting market forces
establish prices of goods and services. A new general tariff system was
established by Decree with Force-of-Law (Public Works) No. 70, whereas the
details of the tariff system were regulated by Supreme Decree (Economy)
No. 453.   Rates are to be calculated by the SSS and approved by the
Ministry of Economy for each of the coLipanies concerned on the basis of
the replacement value of the existing installations, expected service
levels, and a 15-year investment program, using a discount rate of at
least 7%, with separate rates for water and sewerage and a seasonal
surcharge during the summer months of December through March, where
patterns of water consumption and availability are markedly different by
season. Maximum rates are fixed in real terms for a period of five years
and adjusted in nominal terms whenever inflation reaches more than three
percentage points. Once the final level is reached, rates for consumption
will be the same for all groups of customers, independent of their level
of consumption, thus eliminating the presently high cross-subsidies for
residential consumers with a monthly consumption below 20 m3.
1.10 To allow for a gradual adjustment of consumer expectations and
behavior, the new system will be phaaed in during a transition period of
four years.   The new rates were calculated during 1990 using a 9.6%
discount factor and introduced in March 1990 for EMOS and ESVAL, and in
June 1990 for the other companies; further annual adjustments for June
each year until 1994 are already defined and approved.  Increases will
range from 47% in Region VI to 137% in Region II. The overall adjustment
will be 75% for all of CORFO's companies.   Annex1_, contains the new
average rates for all regions.
1.11 This pricing system, once fully implemented, will represent a
considerable advance compared to the previous situation and to the policy
applied in other countries of the region. However, these rates have been
calculated on the basis of theoretical cost functions, investment
programs, and efficiency levels.   To obtain the formal concession by



-4 
July 1, 1991, the companies will have to prepare their actual investment
programs, present them to the SSS, and receive its approval.   If the
volume of their investment programs differs considerably from the
theoretical assumptions, future rates may be recalculated and modified.
Loan processing was carried out u:- 'or the assumption that the system will
be implemented as provided in the above mentioned legislation. During
negotiations, an agreement was reached that changes to the tariff
legislation (Decree with Force-of-Law No. 70 as modifled by Laws No. 18902
and 18986, and Supreme Decree No. 453) that materially and adversely
affect ESVAL'o ability to carry out the Project would be considered an
event of default.
Affordability to the Lower-Income Ponulation
1.12 Together with the new tariff regulations, the GoCh has also adopted
a new subsidy policy which would replace the previous cross subsidies for
residential  consumers.    To eliminate  their  higher  subsidies,  rate
increases for residential consumers have to be above thc.. for the rest.
The GoCh is aware that the new final rates to be fully implemented in 1994
may not be affordable to the urban poor and has devised a mechanism of
direct subsidies targeted to the lower-income groups, regulated by Decree
with Force-of-Law No. 18778 and Supreme Decree (Finance) No. 786. The aim
of the subsidy is to ensure that the water service remains affordable to
the urban poor, but it is also a protective measure against financial
deterioration of the water companies, which would occur if the increased
water bills are not paid. The subsidies will be made available through
the municipalities and financed by the budget of the Central Government.
1.13 To qualify for this oubsidy, potential beneficiaries must register
with the municipality, their monthly water consumption must be below 20 nP,
and their arrears to the water supply companies must be settled.
Individual households most in need are then selected using the CAS system
(Caracteristicas Socioecon6micas) a household-based socioeconomic means
test already applied in other sectors (Annex 2), which has two
distinguishing features: (a) qualification as a beneficiary requires the
explicit request of the head of the household; and (b) eligibility is
determined on the basis of an extensive questionnaire filled out by a
social worker during a vioit to the household. So far only a limited
number of people have presented their request and the number of those
qualified remains well below the potential.
1.14 The GoCh is aware of the initial problems encountered in the
application of the new subsidy and is monitoring carefully its
implementation. A proposed modification to the present subsidy law, aimed
at improving it, is expected to be approved by Congress in July 1991. An
agreement was reached during negotiations that the GoCh will take all
necessary measures to modify further the current system of direct water
subsidies, whenever the results of the experience accumulated warrant it.
An understanding was also reached that the GoCh would initiate a study on
a comprehensive social subsidy system to integrate possibly all the
subsidies presently applied, and would modify the present water subsidy
system, if needed, in accordance with the recommendations of such study.



- S *'
1.15 Sector investments in the last decade (1',80-90) ranged between US$27
million and US$55 million per year, totalling about US$460 million and
averaging US$42 million per year. Theme investmento have been financed by
Government funds, foreign loans from the World Bank and the IDB, and an
increasing amount of internally generated funds in the case of EMOS and
ESVAL.   Funds disbursed irom foreign loans amounted to about US$160
million oluring the 10-year period 1979-88 or an average yearly amount of
US$16 million, representing an average contribution of foreign loans of
about one third of total investments. The investments in the water supply
sector and in ESVAL's service area are shown in Ann2x 3.
lector Obiectimes and Policies
1.16 The main objective of the water sector in the next decade
(1991-2000) is to concentrate on alleviating the major pollution problems,
particularly those occurring in the Santiago Metropolitan area, where
irrigation with raw sewage of crops used for fresh human consumption is
practiced on a large scale, and in the Greater Valparaiso area, where
important natural and touristic resources such as beaches, water courses
and the Pacific ocean, are contaminated by raw sewage discharges. To meet
this objective, adequate sewage treatment and disposal facilities,
combined with environmental control measures have to be implemented.
1.17 In addition to the above objective, which is related to sewage
treatment and disposal, another important sector objective is to improve
the performance of the urban water supply systems by optimizing the
distribution networks and storage facilities and reducing the unaccounted-
for water. Meeting this objective in the areas of Santiago and Valparaiso
means,  among  other  measures,  launching  major  programs  of  water
distribution system rehabilitation, includings pressure zoning, pipe
replacement, and leak detection and control.
1.18 And finally, a more general objective of the sector is to further
improvf the institutional performance of the water companies, so that they
can meet the major challenges they will have to face in the next decaa-.
Bank Involvment in the Secator
1.19 The %orld Bank has been involved in Chile's water and sewerage
sector since 1977, when it. carried out the first Sector Study at the time
the three main water entities (SENDOS, EMOS and ESVAL) were created.
Shortly thereafter, the Bank granted ito first loan to SENDOS and EMOS in
1980 6Losn 1832-CH). This loan, which amounted to about US$32 million,
financed a project with a total cost of US$76 million, consisting of
facilities for the expansion and rehabilitation of water supply systeme in
Santiago (EMOS) and in other cities, including Valparaiso (SENDOS). It
also included the preparation of a Sewerage Master Plan for the Santiago
Metropolitan Area that was completed in 1983.



- 6 -
1.20 In 1986 the Bank granted a second loan to EMOS. This loan, for an
amount of US$60 million, financed a project (total coat US$120 million)
currently under implementation, which consioto of facilitiee for expansion
and improvement of the water supply system, facilities for expansion of
the sewage collection system, and the first stage of sewage disposal and
treatment facilities, which would provide a partial solution to the water
contamination problems of Greater Santiago.
1.21 At the same time (in 1986), the Bank also granted a first loan to
ESVAL for US$6 million (US$12 million project), which included a major
water treatment plant (Las Vegas) and some other water supply facilities,
as well as consultants' studies for the preparation of the second loan
(the subject of this report), which would deal with the water and sewerage
systems of Greater Valparaiso Area.
1.22 In 1987 the World Bank completed a second sector study for Chile.
This study made important recommendations for the restructuring of the
water sector and the improvement of its operational efficiency.
Lessons from Past Exoerience
1.23 The lessons learned from the Bank's past activities in Chile's water
sector are very positive. Most of the recommendations made in the Bank's
1987 sector study (Report No. 6614-CH) have been implemented by the GoCh
and the water companies. These include: (a) the adoption of a financial
policy of full cost recovery; (b) the conversion of EMOS and ESVAL into
shareholding corporations initially publicly held that could eventually be
partially or fully sold off to private interests (a model similar to that
implemented successfully in the electricity distribution sector)l (c)
placing emphasis on rehabilitation of existing water installations and
reduction of unaccounted-for water in order to reduce and postpone
investments in developing additional water production capacity; and (d)
the identification of suitable investment packages for sewage treatment
and disposal in order to reduce serious pollution problems in the large
Santiago and Valparaiso urban areas.
1.24 With the exception of initial delays in the implementation of ENOS'
second loan, the performance of Chile borrowers in the water sector and
their compliance with loan conditions has been excellent.   ESVAL's
performance in the execution of its first loan has been remarkables the
project is virtually complete and the Bank loan is now almost fully
disbursed.   The first water supply project finsnced by the Bank (Loan
1832-CH) whose PCR was completed on September 14, 1990, and the first
ESVAL project financed by the Bank (Loan 2652-CH) had important benefits
for both EMOS and ESVAL, but fell short of achieving significant
reductions in water losses, because of the limited funds available
(ESVAL's loan was only US$6.0 million) and the lack of a clear diagnosis
of the factors causing such losses.   However,  such a diagnosis was
prepared for the Greater Valparaiso area within the framework of ESVAL's
first project that included studies and designs, and has served as the
basis for the proposed ESVAL loan.



7-
2.  THE FIFTH R1EGIO MM. TI*I. DORBRWS
Ponulation and Health
2.1 The Fifth Region covers an area of about 16,400 3a2 and has a total
population of 1,400,000 of which about 91% is urban. It in divided into
eight provinces that may be grouped into three main areas: Aconcagua (33%
of the population) in the north, Greater Valparaiso (59%) in the coeter,
and San Antonio (8%) in the south. The estimated population growth rate
in this region in the next decade is lower than the national average:
1.29% and 1.34%, respectively, for the total and the urban population.
2.2   Infant mortality levels in 1987 in the Fifth Region and in the
Greater Valparaiso Area were 17 and 16 per 1,000 live births,
respectively, i.e., slightly lower than the national average.
WaLter-and Seweraae Demand gnd Supolv
2.3   ESVAL is responsible for urban water supply and sewerage.   In
addition, the company recently has been given the responsibility to
provide technical assistance for the operation of rural water supply
systems. It took over from the former regional SENDOS office some of the
people in charge of rural water supply. The capital investments in rural
water supply are being financed directly by the GoCh.
2.4   In the last five years, in line with the stagnant economy of the
city of Valparaiso, and also due to restrictions in supply that were
overcome only in 1989, ESVAL's sales grew only modestly (2.1% annually) to
187 lcd. Service coverage in the area is a high 96.5% for water supply
and a reasonable 82% for sewerage. Average consumption per month reaches
25 m3 for all connections and 20 m3 for residential connections.  About 72%
of residential users fall within the 20 m3/month category (the cutoff level
for the direct income subsidy), their corresponding consumption amounts to
40% of the total for this user group. The peculiar characteristics of the
market are: a high seasonal demand during the summer months due to the
role of Vifia del Mar and surrounding communities as a national and
international tourist center, and high rates of unaccounted-for water,
which reach about 41% of the average net water production of 4.3 m3/s.
2.5   ESVAL expects the modest growth rate of water consumption to
continue until it reaches 200 lcd by the year 2000, service coverage
increases to be concentrated on sewerage where a level of 90% is forecast
for the year 2000, losses to be reduced to 34%, and the average net water
production to reach 4.9 m3/sec. Peak demand is to be curtailed by steep
increases in rates during the summer months. This forecast for ESVAL's
service area appears reasonable (Annex 4).
Capital Investment ProgrOM
2.6   Capital investments in the Fifth Region had been neglected for many
years, with only about US$0.5 million on average being invested annually
between 1980 and 1985.   This trend changed when the GoCh decided to



-8-
request Bank assistance for the First Water Supply Project in 1986. It
alleviated the main problem of the Greater Valparaiso water supply system
- the lack of sufficient water treatment capacity - and paved the way for
future investments through a series of feasibility studies on both water
supply and sewerage for the Greater Valparaiso Area. During the period
1987-90, the average annual investment reached US$4.0 million.
2.7   As a result of the studies carried out, an investment program of
US$154 million for 1991-2000 was devised that covers the main requirements
of the Fifth Region and is composed oft 40% for water supply, 45% for
sewerage, and 15% for equipment, consulting services, institutional
improvements, and acquisition of land (Annx S}   Overall, due to the
quality boost of water and sewerage services and the extension of water
services into poorer areas with lower consumption, investment per
connection will increase by 32% to US$862 in 1997. Theme investments were
determined as the least-cost solution after detailed studies and analyses
of various alternatives and are considered adequate.
Water and Seweraae Tariff
2.8   ESVAL's tariff, by Supreme Decree (Economy) No. 35 of 1990, is based
on the national framework described in para. 1.9. The present rates of
19.9 cents/i3 for water and 4.2 cents/r3 for sewerage were put into effect
for the consumption from March 1990 onward and represent an average annual
increase in real terms of 19.9%. Further annual hikes in real terms are
planned for June of each year, to reach 31.1 cents/in for water and 13.8
cents/u3 for sewerage by 1995 corresponding to the long run average cost
calculated at a discount rate of 9.6%. This represents an accumulated
increase of 56% for water and 228% for sewerage. Nominal adjustments are
to take place in accordance with the general legislation, i.e. whenever
inflation reaches more than 3 percentage points. During negotiations, an
agreement was reached that: (a) ESVAL would adjust its tariffs in real
terms as provided in decree No. 35, and in nominal terms as provided in
decree with force-of-law No. 70, to the maximum levels permitted by the
legislation; and (b) the GoCh would enable ESVAL to make such adjustments.
Annex 6 provides further details on the present and future tariffs.
Affordability to the Lower-Income Ropulat_ion
2.9   Low-income water consumers in the service area of ESVAL will also
benefit from the new nationwide direct income subsidy for the urban poor
(see para. 1.14 and Annex 2).  It is expected to affect about 23% of
ESVAL's residential consumers. The new subsidy has already been applied
starting with the bills for the month of December 1990.   Success in
promoting this subsidy in the Fifth region, however, has so far been
limited (as on the national level). Only about 11% of the total number of
assigned subsidies for the region have been utilized. The limited initial
success can be attributed to the process of inscription which is somewhat
cumbersome, the lack of clarity with respect to the authority of the
municipality and ESVAL to disqualify potential beneficiaries, and the
relatively small increase of the water tariff in 1991.  In the coming
months, ESVAL and the municipalities plan to increase their promotion



-9-
efforts to achieve the highest possible number of beneficiaries. During
negotiations, an agreement was reached that ESVAL would review on
September 30 each year, starting from 1992, the effectiveness of the
direct income subsidy in its service area, and that it would adjust the
system ao needed, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, to incorporate the
results of the experience accumulated.
Manaaement. Organization and Personnel
2.10 ESVAL, which was established in 1977 as a public agency under the
Ministry of Public Works, was transformed in June 1989 into a stock
corporation with all shares held by the RoCh, either directly (35%) or
indirectly through CORFO  (65%).   While the previouo government had
intended to sell at least part of the company to private investors, the
present government currently does not have such plans.
2.11 ESVAL's bylaws follow the general pattern of stock corporations in
Chile. The Shareholders Assembly elects the seven members of the Board of
Directors including the president and approves the company's financial
statements.   The major responsibilities of the Board are: approval of
annual budgets, major capital investments, and credit and loan operations.
The general manager, who is appointed by the Board, is in charge of
managing the day-to-day operations of the company. He is assisted by a
manager acting as his deputy, and five first-level line managers
responsible for the areas of planning, engineering, adminiatration,
finance and sales. Additionally, there are three advisory positions to
the general manager and five regional managerial positions in charge of
operations (Annex 7, page 1).
2.12 The company has some 900 employees. While the total number of staff
(about 3.4 employees per water connection) seems reasonable, the staff
composition is unbalanced, with an insufficient number of qualified
middle-level managers and technical staff.   ESVAL's organization has
remained unchanged for many years and it is still basically supply driven.
The additional personnel requirements are limited (about 35 employees at
project completion) and mostly for strengthening the company's capacity to
operate and maintain new and more complex water and sewerage facilities,
but bigger efforts for training are required and are included in the
proposed project to achieve an adequate staff balance.
2.13  An organizational study whose terms of reference had been discussed
with the Bank has recently been completed.   To make the company more
responsive to user needs, the study recommends decentralizing most of the
short term tasks while the central departments would be limited to
defining policies, standards and objectives, and to controlling the
achievement of agreed targets. In addition, the central departments would
be in charge of larger investment projects, medium- and long-term
planning, technical assistance, financing, and consolidation of results.
Annex 7, page 2 shows the future organizational structure, which would be
implemented within a couple of years and would go a long way in dealing
with the over centralization of the company.   In the first phase, a
"transitional" organizational scheme would be adopted (Annex 7, page 3).



- 10 -
The implementation of this transition-stage schemo lo planned to etart in
June 1991 and would be completed within a period of nine monthe. In the
new organizational scheme, there will be five first-level managers and
four regional managers, while the position of the manager is abolished.
The existing Planning Department together with its External Credit Unit
(previously IBRD Coordinating Unit) will operate under a new "Development
Manager" (Gerente de Desarrollo), who will also be in charge of "systems
and methods" and "data processing".  In the transition phase, the four
regional units will operate semi-independently under an "Operations
Manager" (Garento de Operaciones), who will also be in charge of two
central units (commercial and technical assistance). In the final phase,
the regional units will report to the General Manager and achieve full
independence, whereas the Operations Manager will be replaced by a
"Technical Manager" who, among various other attributions, will act as
advisor to the regional managers.
2.14 Despite its excellent performance in carrying out the first Bank
loan, ESVAL needs to upgrade considerably its executing capacity before it
can carry out successfully the proposed project, which implies quadrupling
its annual investments as compared to previous years. Annex 8 contains
an assessment of ESVAL's institutional problems in various areas and the
improvements required.   The main areas which need reinforcement are:
management information, commercial operation, financial operation, and
operation and maintenance. During negotiations, an agreement was reached
that ESVAL would: (a) present not later than September 30, 1991 a plan of
action acceptable to the Bank, for improving its operational and
administrative efficiency that would include the tasks and schedules
presented in Annex 8; (b) implement the above plan in a timely manner; and
(o) implement  not   later  than  September  30,   1991  its  planned
reorganization, based on the conclusions of the organizational study
carried out.
Training
2.15 During project preparation, ESVAL's awareness has increased
considerably with respect to the need for a bigger effort in the training
of its personnel, in order to be able to comply efficiently with the major
challenges that the company will have to face in the near future. The
long-range training needs of ESVAL will be defined within the framework of
the organizational study which is being carried out by consultants. In
the meanwhile, the recently appointed administrative manager who is
responsible for the company's training has prepared a training program of
a relatively limited scope for 1991. This program, which covers all the
areas of the company's operation (management, technical, commercial,
financial and administrative), includes about 60 different training
activities in a variety of subjects, with a total cumulative number of
participants of more than 1,300 and a total cumulative duration of more
than 3,400 hours.   The estimated cost of this training program is
approximately  US$55,000   (Annex 9).       This  program  represents  a
considerable increase in the training resources allocated by the company
compared to the previous year (1990), and yet it should be considered a
transitory phase until a more comprehensive training program is presented



- 11 -
by  the  consultants  preparing  the  organizational  study.        During
negotiations, an agreement was reached that ESVAL woulds (a) present not
later than November 30, 1991 a comprehensive training plan acceptable to
the Bank, aimed at strengthening its capacity to carry out the project
efficientlyl and (b) implement the above program in a timely manner.
Ooeration and-Maintenange
2.16  The operation and maintenance of the water supply and sewerage
systems is carried out by operational units set up lin the Greater
Valparaiso Metropolitan Area and in each of the remaining provinces of the
Fifth region (San Antonio, Quillota, San Felipe and Petorca). The Greater
Valparaiso unit, which is the largest, includes three subunits dealing
with each of the three distinct geographic areas (Valparaiso, Villa del
Mar, and Quilpu6-Villa Alemana). All the subunits generally carry out
their task of satisfying on a continuous basis the water consumption
requirements of their customers (with the exception of peak days in the
summer season, when the system capacity is insufficient, especially in
some coastal resort cities). However, the operation of the water supply
systems is inefficient as a result of high water losses and other
deficiencies described in para. 3.6.
2.17 The maintenance of the water supply systems is a difficult task
under the conditions prevailing in the distribution networks, particularly
in the Valparalso area.   It requires continuous repair and excessive
maintenance personnel. A maintenance team usually consists of at least
six workers, led by a supervisor and transported to and from the repair
site by a driver. The latter two are not involved directly in the repair
work; the team must sometimes wait for the driver to return long after the
repair is completed. No information system has been established on the
repair needs and their priorities, with the consequent result that in many
cases important repairs may be delayed for a relatively long time, thus
creating customers' dissatisfaction with the service provided by the
company. ESVAL's maintenance teams carry out only the routine repairs and
identify any major repair that may be required.  When the maintenance
requirements exceed ESVAL's capacity to perform them, such as in the case
of large-diameter pipes on valves, the maintenance services required are
contracted out. This cru4tes a further delay in the completion of the
repair work and the resumption of service in the affected area.
2.18 During the period 1987-90, considerable modernization of the
maintenance systems was achieved with the implementation of the first
ESVAL project (financed by Bank loan 2652-CH), when about US$4.3 million
was invested in purchasing Operation and Maintenance (O&M) equipment. At
the same time, a diagnosis of the main requirements for improving the O&M
system was prepared by consultants, and detailed designs were prepared for
improvements of the water supply system aimed at optimizing O&M. These
recommendations will be carried out within the framework of the proposed
project. To improve the efficiency of the maintenance teams two measures
are being considered within the framework of the company's reorganization:



- 12 -
(a)   reduce the size of a maintenance team to two workers, one of
whom would also be designated as driver, thus eliminating the
roles of the inspector and extra driver; and
(b)   aosign ESVAL's maintenance teams to major repairs,  which
affect a large number of customers and thus require immediate
attention, and contract out only house connections and minor
repairs. Such a change in approach would imply the need for
adequate training of some of ESVAL's maintenance personnel.
Metering. Billino and Collectio
2.19 ESVAL's metering, billing and collection procedures are generally
well developed. They are highly computerized and make extensive use of
outside contracting for meter reading, preparation and distribution of
bills, and commercial banks for receiving payments.  Customers in the
Greater Valparaiso area are billed monthly, while those in the rest of the
region receive their bills bimonthly. However, not all connections are
known to ESVAL; moreover, there is no preventive maintenance of the meters
and the work of the meter readers is not organized efficiently. ESVAL
will contract a consumer survey as part of the planned institutional
improvements to reduce unaccounted-for water, better define the service
coverage, and reprogram the routes of meter readers.  ESVAL will also
change the format of the bill to make it more comprehensible to consumers.
2.20 On the average, ESVAL's arrears at end November 1990 stood at 18
days of average billings, while those of the public sector were 56 days
(see Annex 10).   Most of the public sector arrears corresponded to
payments owed by the municipalities of Vifia del Mar and Valparaiso for the
maintenance of street fire hydrants carried out by ESVAL.   Although
ESVAL's overall collection performance is quite good, the debt of the two
municipalities needed to be addressed. on the other hand, ESVAL owed the
two municipalities payments for municipal tax (a similar amount in the
case of Valparaiso, and a smaller amount in the case of Vifia). In March
1991, ESVAL entered into agreements with the two municipalitles, whereby
the mutual debt is compensated and the remaining debt (approximately 5% of
the total debt in the case of Valparaiso and 35% in the case of Vifia) will
be paid within one year. To ascertain whether overdue amounts for this
service would accumulate again, an agreement was reached during
negotiations that the collection time for payment by the municipalities of
hydrants maintenance would be monitored separately from that for payment
of the water and sewerage bills and would not exceed 60 days.
Insurance
2.21 ESVAL's asset insurance covers only its vehicles and a few
administrative buildings.  The risks covered are: damage arising from
accidents, and fire, storm, and explosions, respectively. The coverage
for the assets is net book value.   This arrangement does not provide
sufficient coverage for all its assets and all the risks they are exposed
to.   Earthquake hazard for example is not included.   A study by an
external consulting firm that has recently oeen completed recommended



- 13 -
which assets should be insured against what type of risk and by what
means, and what would constitute an adequate insurance polliy. Based on
these recommendatLons, ESVAL submitted to the Bank at the end of February
1991 a prelimLnary incurance program on which the Bank made some comments
and suggestions. During negotiations, an agreement was reached that BSVAL
would contract insurance services to expand coverago, in terms and amounts
acceptable to the Bank, by September 30, 1991.
Accounting and-Audit
2.22 .SVAL's accounts are maintained in accordance wLth generally
accepted accounting principles and reports are iosued on time, but
improvements in the accounting and internal audlting procedures are
required.    The  company  needs  to develop an  integrated manw - .ant
accounting system to increase awareness and responsibility for costs at
the different management levels. For thL purpose, the borrower should
introduce a budgeting system not just geared to the needs of the
government, but for its own purpose, and cost accounting as well as medium
and long-range financial planning. ESVAL also needs to establish rotating
inventories of stocks and a polLcy on provisioning of obsolete stock. The
internal auditing at ESVAL has been inoufficient because it did not carry
out operational audits of technLcal areas (operation and maintenance) or
commercial and financial areas (meter reading, accounting, etc.). The
internal auditor's position has recently been filled by a profeseional who
is in the process of establishing the procedures for reviewing compliance
with management directives and internal controls standard in a company of
this aize.
2.23 External audits of ESVAL's financial statements since 1986 have been
timely performed by a private auditing company, with only minor
qualifications. During negotiations, ESVAL's agreement was obtalned that
it would continue using qualLfied private independent auditors to review
yearly its financial statements, as well as the Special Account, the
statement of expenditures, compliance with the covenants of the proposed
project, to prepare a management letter, and make the audit report
available to the Bank by April 30 of eiach year.
Past Financial Performance
2.24 With an investment cost of US$611 per connection and a stagnant
consumption of 26 m3 per connection, ESVAL's financial performance until
1989 has been unimpressive, losing 3% per year on average invested
capital.   Although the combined operating expenditures for water and
sewerage of 22.6 cents/m3 were rather low, the GoCh had approved only an
average combined rate for water and sewerage of 15.6 cents/r3, 31% below
operating expenditures.   Because of the almost complete absence of
previous borrowing due to ESVAL's lack of creditworthiness, net internal
cash generation in 1988 was positive but insufficient to cover even its
short-term capital needs.   In 1989, however, the company witnessed a
turnaround of its financial fortunes. Due to a 26% real Lncrease of Lts
average rate for water supply and sewerage, combined with lower operating
costs per m3 resulting from the reduction in overall pumping after the



14 -
incorporation of a now gravity production and treatment facility
(Las Vegas), the rate of return became modestly positive (0.5%). As a
result, the company was able to finance 56% of the capital Lnvestments
front its own funds. During 1990, due to the tariff reform of March 1990,
this positive trend has continued.   For further details on ESVAL's
financial performance see Annex-20.
3. THF: FRoECT
3.1   The proposed project would be the second ESVAL operation financed by
the Bank and is the direct continuation of the first Valparaiso project,
which was financed by Bank Loan 2652-CH.   The bulk of that project
consisted of the studies and designs required for the Greater Valparaiso
water and sewerage systems. The proposed project includes most of ESVAL's
investment program for the period 1991-97, which was approved by the
Ministry of Finance, and concentrates mainly on the urgent water supply
and sewage disposal needs of the Greater Valparaiso Area. The proposed
project will help improve the precarious water supply system of the
Greater Valparaiso Area, and will permit solving the pollution problems
created by the discharge of untreated sewage from the Greater Valparaiso
Area into the Pacific Ocean.
Rationale for Bank Involvement
3.2   The proposed participation in the project stems from the Bank's
overall strategy to support Chile's efforts to improve the financial and
institutional performance of the major sector entities, and to increase
the  efficiency  of  resource  useo         The  project  would  achieve:
(a) optimization of investments in infrastructure by improved maintenance
and rehabilitation; (b) increased efficiency in the delivery of public
services; and (c) alleviation of environmental pollution problems that
affect adversely public health and hinder economic development of the
area.
Prolect Obiectivey
3.3   The proposed project has three major objectives:
(a)   to  improve sanitary conditions  of water streams,  public
beaches and the marine environment in the Greater Valparaiso
Area, which are important recreational facilities for the
population of the area,. as well as valuable economic resources
of the region for tourism and fishing;
(b)   to optimize the operation of the existing water supply system
and improve water supply conditions in the Greater Valparaiso
Area by reducing water losses, creating uniform service
pressure, and improving the quality of the water supplied to
the consumers; such optimization would also permit expanding



- 15 -
the supply area and preclude the large capital investments
that would otherwise be required; and
(c)   to increase ESVALI operational efficiency and lts capacity to
successfully implement the proposed investment and development
program.
Wtekr SM221v in the Great_er Valvaratso Are,a
3.4   The Greater Valparalso Area currently has a total populatlon of
approximately 770,000 lnhabitants, representing about 65% of the total
population of the Fifth Region.  It includes four major urban centers:
Valparaiso, Vifia del Mar, Quilpue and Villa Alemana, and two smaller urban
zones (Refiaca and Conc6n), which have been included in the ViLfa del Mar
urban area for the purpose of water supply system design.   The water
supply  system  of  the  Greater  Valparaiso  Area  ia based  on  three
interconnected subsystems (IBRD Map No. 22904): the Las Vegas and the
Conc6n systems, both fed by the Aconcagua River, and the Peftuelas system
fed by the Pefiuelas Reservoir. The total present capacity of the system
(3.7 me/s) is not sufficlent to meet the peak daily demand, which ls
estimated to reach 4.25 m3/s by 1995.
3.5   The studies carried out have identified the minimal and most
economic additional sources of water that should be developed to ensure
the safe supply of water to the area until at least the year 2000. These
include:
(a) 00timization of supply from existing sources, including: the
rehabilitation and expansion of Conc6n treatment facilities,
the reallocation of existing water resources between the
various urban centers, and the construction of a transmission
main from the exLiting Aromos Reservoir to Conc6n, which would
safeguard the existing supply in years of low flows in the
Aconcagua River. The latter also would lmprove the raw water
quality at Conc6n, save energy, and provide an  1'1.-.:tant
safety factor in the case of failure of the main Las Vegas
aqueduct (e.g., because of an earthquake).
(b)   minor surfAce and groundwater sources, including the Poza Azul
Reservoir and wells in Limache and Calera.
3.6   In addltion to the urgent need for developing additlonal water
production  and  treatment  capacity,  the  Greater  Valparaiso  water
distributLon system suffers from serious deficiencies and high water
losses as a result of:
(a)   lack of pressure zones in a eity whose elevations extend from
sea level to more than 500 m above sea level, which may create
excessively high pressure in certain zones and LnsuffLcient
pressure in other zones;



- 16 -
(b)   irrational allocation of water aources  among the various
distribution zoneo;
(c)   bottlenecks in the distribution system layout (relatively
short sections of pipes of smaller diameter than needed);
(d)   direct connection of various zones to the Las Vegas main
tranemission line;
(e)   leakage from old distribution pipes, some of which have been
adversely affected by the frequent earthquakes occurring in
the area; and
(f)   insufficient capacity of the storage reservoirs;
3.7   The studies and designs carried out by consultants (with funds made
available by the first Bank loan to ESVAL) have identified the works and
measures needed to improve the operational efficiency of the Greater
Valparaiso water supply system. The proposed project includes the first
stage of these improvements, which are both the most urgent and the ones
that would provide the highest economic return. The project would bring
about an improvement in the water service to all four urban centers of the
Greater Valparaiso area, and would thus facilitate the expected increase
in the water rates charged by ESVAL.
3.8  The optimization and rehabilitation of the existing distribution
system would reduce the unaccounted-for water from 46% at present to about
36% in the year 2000: and would reduce the operation and maintenance costs
by decreasing the amount of pumping energy and pipe repairs required. The
accuracy of water meter. will be increased as a result of the improvement
in water quality resulting from water treatment. After the improvements
of the existing system are carried out and the new sources are developed
as part of the proposed project, the capacity of the Greater Valparaiso
water system would reach 4.7 3/s, which should be sufficient until beyond
the year 2000 if combined with the measures to be undertaken for reducing
the percentage of unaccounted-for water (Annx 11).
Sewaae CollectionLDisogoal in the Greater Valgaralso Area
3.9   The wastewater generated in the six urban centers of the Greater
Valparaiso Area (Valparaiso, Vifia del Mar, QuilpuG, Villa Alemana, Reftaca
and Conc6n) is discharged into the Pacific Ocean without any prior
treatment, either directly via short sea outfalls or indirectly via two
creeks crossing the area. Consequently, most of the beaches of the area,
which represent a national and international touristic resource, are
contaminated by domestic swage. The only exception is a small portion of
wastewater from the city of Valparaiso, which is discharged into the
Pacific Ocean through the Bustamante tunnel at the southwestern end of the
area, out of the main bay and far from the main beaches.
3.10 The studies and designs carried out with funds made available by the
first Bank loan to ESVAL have identified and analyzed a series of



17 -
alternative solutions for improving and expanding the sewage collection
and disposal oystem of the area, which would alleviate the sewage
contamination problems, and have recommended the most attractive solution
from a technical and economic point of view (Annex 12).
3.11 The recommended scheme (IBRD Map No. 22903) consists of conveying
the wautewater from all the urban centers of the area (except Conc6n) to
the south and then to the west, via a system consibting of gravity
collectors, pumping stations, and short sections of pressure mains, and
diacharging it into the ocean through the exiating Bustamante tunnel,
after preliminary (mechanical) treatment.  Wastewater from the Conc6n
urban area would be conveyed to the north and diacharged into the ocean by
means of a short local sea outfall, after preliminary (mechanical)
treatment. The sewage treatment provided prior to ocean dispoaal at each
of the two sites consist of: bar screens, grit and grease removal
chambers.  This treatment produces only small amounts of solid sludge
(objects and coarse solids) that would be disposed of together with the
municipal refuse. The recommended scheme was evaluated by the consultants
from point of view of its impact on the be&ahes and the marine ecosystem
of the area, and was found to be acceptable erom an environmental point of
view by ESVAL and by the Bank.
Proiect Descrintion
3.12 The proposed project, which would be carried out during a 6.5-year
period between mid-1991 and end of 1997, includes four main components.
The first two are related to Greater Valparaiso, while the remaining two
are related to the Fifth Region and ESVAL in general (Annex 13) :
A. SEWERAGE AnD POLLUTION 1O OQ_0L - 47% of project cost, includings
1.  Installton of secondary sewaoe collect    (1%) of a diameter
smaller than 400 mm and a total length of about 10 km, in
Greater Valparaiso and in the city of Limache;
2.  Installation  of main  _ewaae  collectors  (19%)  in  Greater
Valparaiso, of a diameter varying between 400 and 2000 mm and a
total length of about S0 km, plus three rectangular cections
with a total length of about 6 kmi
3.  Consrutionof- four sewagq Duinn statin  (14%) in Greater
Valparaiso, including their respective pressure pipes; and
4.  Construction of sawage treatmant and disoosal facilities  (13%)
consisting of two mechanical treatment plants at Bustamante and
Conc6n, plus a 560 mm, 800 m long sea outfall at Conc6n.
B.   _ATR VAPRISQ WTR_SUPPL  - 36% of project cost, including:
1.  Construcion-of prodUction facilities (4%) consisting of wells
in Calera and Limache, and intake works for supplying water from
the Poza Azul surface reservoir;



- 18 -
2.  Xnuamlse                                      n-nmo   (5%) of t
dirneter varying from 1200 to 800 mm and a length of 11 km;
3.  Construction of water treatment facilities (6%) including the
rehabilitation of two existing plants (Conc6n and Pefiluelas) and
a new plant in Conc6an and
4.  Intallation of distribution oices and constructlon-of ptorace
tankn (21%). The diameter of the pipes vrary from 75 to 1000 mm
and their total length is about 13 km. There will be 15 storage
tanks with a volume varying between 500 and 5,000 nm each.
C. INSTITUTIONAL  IMPROVEMENTS - 9% of project coot,  including the
strengthening of the Borrower through:
1. Acquisition of O&M and office equipment;
2. Carrying out a consumers' survey;
3. Technical cooperation with other companies on various topics,
including quantification and reduction of unaccounted-for water;
4. Training of its staff; and
5. Preparation of a development plan for the company; and
D. COSULZING SERVICES - 8% of project cost, including:
1. Engineering and supervision of the water and sewerage facilities
included in Componento A and B of the Project described above;
2.  Monitoring of the Greater Valparaiso marine sewage disposal
system before and after project completion; and
3.  Feasibility studies and designs of water supply and sewerage
systems for the northern and southern coast of the Fifth Region.
Proiect cost
3.13 The total project cost is estimated at US$111.5 million equivalent,
including physical and price contingencies, net of duties and taxes. The
proposed Bank loan of US$50.0 million corresponds to the foreign exchange
cost of the Project (excluding Interest on the Bank loan), and represents
45% of the total project cost. A summary of project costs is presented in
Table 1, and a detailed cost estimate is given in Annex 14.
3.14 Project base costs for components A and B (83% of total project
cost), are based on detailed designs prepared within the framework of the
first Bank loan to ESVAL. Physical contingencies (10%) were added to all
project components.  Price contingencies were calculated for a project
execution period of 6.5 years, at a local annual inflation rate of 18% and
current projected international inflation rates as shown in Annex 20.



- 19 -
(in US$ million)
Comn2o.ent                            Woc-al    FOXR.     TDa,L    I
A. Sewerage and Pollution Control    18.3        19.6       37.9       52%
B. Water Supply                        13.3      15.4       28.7       54%
C. Institutional Improvemento           2.6       4.3        6.9       62%
D. Consulting Services                  4.2       2.4        6.6       36%
BASE COST (December 1990)              38.3                 80. 0Q!    52%
Physical Contingencies (10%)       3.8       4.2        8.0       52%
Price Contingencies               19.4       4.1       23.5       17%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                     61.5      50.0      111.5       4Sl
(net of duties and taxes)
Import Duties and VAT                  30.0                 30.0        0%
TOTAL PROJECT COST                               50.P      14;.        35%
(including duties and taxes)
Pr-olect Fitnancnag Plan,
3.15 The project's financing scheme is presented in Table 2 below. The
proposed Bank loan of US$50 million, which corresponds to the foreign
exchange cost of the project, represents 45% of the project cost (net of
duties and taxes) and 35% of the total project cost. ESVAL's internal
fund generation will be sufficient to cover the balance, provided its
rates are increased to the maximum provided by the present legislation.
Table 2: FINA1IC LgZIMi
(in US$ million)
%of    %of
P r o j e c t   C o s t   Duties   Total   Project  Total
Source       Local   ZriEQE  Total   and Tax   Cost    Cost     Cot
World Bank             50.0      50.0    ----      50.0     45        35
ESVAL         61.5    ----       61.5    30.0      91.5     55        65
Total           .               1115    300    141.5    100
3.16  Out of the proposed loan, a maximnum amount of US$3 million (6% of
the total loan) will be used for retroactive financing of the new Conc6n
water treatment plant and some sections of the main sewage collection



20 -
system (collectors and pumping station.). The Conc6n treatment plant is
needed urgently in order to permit satisfying the maximum daily demand in
the Greater Valparaiso Metropolitan Area in the summer season; the sewage
main collectors and pumping stationo are in the critical path of the
Greater Valparaiso sewage disposal system whose early completion is
required in order to alleviate the serious environmental problems caused
by sewage contamination of public beaches and the ocean. All retroactive
financing will be for civil works and goods contracted in accordance with
procurement acceptable to the Bank after January 1, 1991 and within a
maximum period of 12 months prior to the date of loan signing.
3.17 The Government of Chile has recently requested the Government of
Japan to consider the cofinancing of this project, as part of a package of
several other investment projects.  if this operation materializes, an
OECF loan of about US$40 million would be granted to ESVAL. In such an
event, the Bank loan amount: would remain unchanged, but the total external
financing would increase from 45% to 80% of project cost (net of duties
and taxes). OECF board approval is contingent upon Bank approval of the
loan. Taking into account the fact that ESVAL is a revenue generating
utility, an agreement was reached during negotiations that, in case an
OECF loan or any other funds were made available for the financing of the
Project, ESVAL would finance with funds from internal sources at least 20%
of project cost (net of duties and taxes). An understanding was reached
during the appraisal mission with the GoCh, ESVAL, and OECF observers, on
the possible cost sharing of the project in case of cofinancing, based on
sound technical criteria, and is available in the project files.
Project Imlelf.intat ion
3.18  Project  preparation  is well  advanced.    Detailed  designs  are
available for most of the items included in the two main project
components (Greater Valparaiso water supply systoiT, and Greater Valparaiso
sewerage system). Designs for a small number of zcamaining items are in an
advanced state of preparation.
3.19 The overall coordination and superviqion of the project
implementation would be carried out by the Exte nal Credit Unit set up
within the existing Planning Department, and rej-.ing to the Planning
Director. This Unit, which has absorbed the sta'-'i that participated in
the execution of the first Bank-financed project, i.-11 eventually report
to the Development Manager,  after the new org.a.t!zational scheme is
implemented. The day-to-day tctivities under the ync-posed project would
be carried out by ESVAL's existing departments. Durling negotiations, the
modus operandi of the Project Coordinating Unit was discussed and an
agreement was reached that ESVAL woulds (a) maintain such unit with
powers, responsibilities and staffing satisfactory to the Bank and
(b) allocate funds and other resources as required for its adequate
operation during the project execution period.
3.20 The construction of the main sewage collection and disposal
system--the most cophisticated project component from a technological
point of view, which incorporates works in which ESVAL in particular and



- 21 -
Chile in general have no experience, will have to be supervised at least
partly by foreign consultants. The water supply component of the project
will be supervised by local consultants in joint venture with foreign
consultants, as in the first project financed by the Bank. The monitoring
of the marine sewage disposal system would be carried out by a joint
venture of local specialized entities (including the three universities of
the Region), local consulting firms,  and foreign consultante.   The
identification of the components of the unaccou ted-for water and their
relative weight, as well as the identification and implementation of
measures to reduce the losses by improving commercial practices, would be
included under the technical cooperation component as specific topics of
work with an efficient foreign water company, and under training.  The
development plan to be prepared for ESVAL under the institutional
improvements component would include the exploration of various models of
utility  financing  involving  the  private  sector.         The  project
implementation schedule for each main component is shown in Annex 15.
3.21 A set of operational and financial targets or indicators that
present reasonable achievement goals has been established to monitor the
performance of the Borrower during the project execution period in the
whole area serviced by ESVAL (Annex 1fi).  The operational indicators
include such parameters as: volumes of water produced and sold, number of
water connections, water and sewerage service coverage, number of
employees per 1,000 connections, percentage of consumers with direct
income  subsidy,  and percentage  of unaccounted-for water.    Similar
operational indicators would be monitored in the Greater Valparaiso Area,
which is ESVAL's largest service area where most of the project facilities
are concentrated  (Annex 11).   During negotiations,  an agreement was
reached that ESVAL would take all action necessary to meet such
performance indicators, all to be calculated in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank.  It was also agreed that, in addition to the routine review of
project implementation, an in-depth mid-term review would be carried out
by ESVAL and the Bank by September 30, 1994, to exchange views on progress
achieved in the execution of the project, including, inter alia.
developments in the supply and demand for water and sewerage services, the
overall investment program, and its financing. Prior to such exchange of
views, ESVAL will furnish to the Bank a report on the progress achieved in
the project implementation.
Procurement
3.22 Procurement under the proposed project would be in accordance with
the Bank Guidelines for Procurement of Goods and Works (May 1985). ESVAL
r mitted to the Bank the first drafts of general bidding documents for
works and goods, to be used for all ICB procurement, which were prepared
in accordance with Bank Sample Bidding Documents. The Bank carrLed out a
preliminary review of these documents and found them generally acceptable.
A second version incorporating the Bank comments, which is being reviewed
by the Bank, will be finalized prior to the first bid issued by ESVAL.
3.23 Consulting services would be contracted in accordance with Bank
Guidelines for Use of Consultants (August 1981). ESVAL submitted to the



- 22 a
Bank the first draft of a sample document for invitation of consultants'
proposals, including criteria for evaluation of proposals and a sample
consultant contract.   The Bank reviewed this document and found it
acceptable, with the exception of the criteria to be used for evaluation
of consultants' proposals, which did not follow fully the Bank's
guidelines.   ESVAL proposed an evaluation formula based on the MOP
criteria it used in the past, which takes into acccsxnt technical quality
and price. The Bank suggested that the selection be made on the basis of
technical quality only, and the price negotiated with the winning firm.
Since ESVAL is no longer constrained by the procurement regulations of
MOP, it agreed to adopt the Bank's suggestion to award on basis of
technical quality only, for large and significant consulting contracts,
where technical quality is important. It was also agreed that a formula
combining quality and price (the latter with no more than 30% weight)
would be used for minor routine consulting contracts.
3.24 The civil works and the goods for the project will be procured by
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), Local Competitive Bidding (LCB),
and Shopping, as described in the next paragraph. A breakdown of project
costs and loan amounts by procurement method is given in Table 3.
Table 3: PRO_JCT COST BY PROCUREMENT METHOD
(in USS million)
Proiect Element                      Procurement Method        Total
ICB      LCB      other      Cost
1. Civil Works:
Sewerage                        13.0      9.4       1.2      23.6
(3.9)    (2.8)    (0.4)      (7.1)
Water Supply                     4.7     10.2       0.8      15.7
(1.4)    (3.1)    (0.2)      (4.7)
StolMtpL (1   17.7      19.7      2.0      39.3
(5.3)    (5.9)    (0.6)    (11.8)
2. EgUipment:
Sewerage                        17.2     11.7       0.3      29.2
(9.4)    (6.4)    (0.2)    (15.9)
Water Supply                     7.3     16.7       0.2      24.2
(4.0)    (9.1)    (0.1)    (13.2)
Institutional Improvements       4.1      3.7       0.4       8.2
(2.2)    (2.0)    (0.2)      (4.5)
Subtotal (2!   28.6     32.1       0.9      61.6
(15.6)   (17.5)    (0.5)    (33.6)
3. Consulting Services
and Training:                                      10.6      10.6
(4.6)     (4.6)
TOTAL        46.3     51.7      13.5     111.5
(20.9)   (23.4)    (5.7)    (50.0)
Note:  Figures in brackets are the amounts financed by the Bank.



23 -
3.25 Contracts for civil works estimated to cost US$3.0 million or more
and equLpment purchases of US$250,000 or more would be procured through
international competltlve bLdding  (ICB) .   Contracts for cLvll works
estimated to cost between US$200,000 and US$3.0 million, and equipment
purchases estimated to cost between US$50,000 and US$250,000, would be
awarded on the basis of LCB  (local competitlve bLdding) procedures
acceptable to the Bank, subject to an aggregate limit of US$20.0 million
for works and US$32.0 million for equLpment and materials. contracts for
less than the above LCB limits would be procured on the basis of a minimum
of three quotations from quallfied suppliers, subject to an aggregate
limit of US$2.0 milllon for works and US$1.0 milllon for equipment and
materials.   The threshold established for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) would ensure that contracts awarded through ICB would
account for about 42% of the estimated project cost.   The limit. of
contract values by type of procurement is shown in Annex 17.
3.26 The Bank's prior review of procurement documentation for clvil works
and goods will cover all major procurement steps (bidding documents,
evaluation report, award recommendation and contract) and would apply to:
(a)   all contracts procured under ICB,i.e., all contracts for civil
works exceeding US$3.0 million and all contracts for goods
and/or materials exceeding US$250,000; and
(b)   the first two contracts procured under LCD each year.
ESVAL will ensure that all contracts to be financed under the loan would
be procured Ln accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank, and
thus eligible for dLsbureement. It was agreed with ESVAL that, wherever
feasible, works and goods would be combined into larger biddlng packages
to simplify Bank review procedures and accelerate execution.
3.27   The Bank will review all documentation  (terms of reference,
evaluation of proposals, award recommendation, and contract) for all the
consulting services Lncluded in the project, i.e., feasibility studies and
designs, supervision of construction, monitoring of sewage disposal, and
technical cooperation for institutional improvements.
3.28 The limits established for prior Bank review of procurement
decisions (works, goods and consulting services) will result in a coverage
of at least 55% of the estimated project cost.
Disbursements
3.29 The proceeds of the proposed loan are expected to be disbursed in
accordance with the allocation by categories shown in Annex 18, o-er a
period of 6.5 years, which is longer than the Bank's average country
profile for Chile (5.5 years), but shorter than the water sector profile
for Latin America (7 years). The disbursement period was determined after
taking into account the advanced status of the project designs, ESVAL's
execution capacity, and the yearly budget availability approved by the
Ministry of Finance. Investments in the heavy sewerage components of the



- 24 -
project (main collectors and pumping stations), as wall as in the new
Concon water treatment plant - whlch is urgently requLred to ensure water
availabLlity durlng peak-day consumptLon in summer - will start in 1991,
and are concentrated ln the firat years of the project. Investments ln
the other water supply components as well as Ln sewage treatment
facilities are scheduled for construction in the latter years of the
project. The proposed loan would be dlcbursed agaLnts
(a)   ExpendLtures for clvil works: M  of local and foreLgnu
(b)   Expenditures for equLpment and materLalrs 4&  of local and
j   of foreignu and
(c)   Expenditure. for consultLng services, technLcal cooperation,
traLning, and supervision of works: 50 of local and foreign;
3.30 For civil works contracts valued at less than US$500,000 equivalent
and for goods contracts valued at less than US$150,000 equivalent (foreign
expenditures), disbureements would be made agaLnst statements of
expenditures (SOEs).  Non-contract expenditures such as trainLng would
also be made against SOEs. Documentation for these expenditures would not
be submitted to the Bank, but would be retained by ESVAL for periodLc
inspection by Bank staff and for audit purposes. All other disburements
would be made agaLnst full documentation. To expedite disbursements, a
SpecLal Account would be opened in the Central Bank, or in a commercial
bank satisfactory to the Bank, with an initLal deposit of up to US$3.0
million to cover four months of average disbursements. The closing date
for disbursements would be June 30, 1998, i.e., six months after the
estimated completion of project execution (December 31, 1997).   The
detailed dLibursement schedule is shown in Annex 12.
4. FINANCIAL AND ECONIMZC JUSTIFICATION
Financial Evaluation
4.1   The outlook for ESVAL's finances is encouraging.  A summary of the
company's projected sources and uses of funds from 1991 to 1997 without
coflnancing is ohown below:
CHS Million
current orices
Sources
Net consumer-based fundlng               49,997                64.5
World Bank loan                          27,546                35.5
TOTAL                 77,543               100.0
Usaes
Investment program                       72,183                93.0
Working capital requirements              3,546                 4.7
Cash surplus                              1,814                 2.3
TOTAL                 11vEA2               100



- 25 -
The financial rate of return is expected to increase gradually and to
reach 5.6% by 1997.  The envisaged funding mix will be adequate, with
indebtedness remaining within prudent limits. Agreements were reached
during negotiations that the Borrower woulds
(a)   Submit to the Bank for review its financial and operational
projections for the next five years by September 30 of each
year. During that review, the Bank would monitor ESVAL'l past
and expected compliance with financial covenants and
performance indicators;
(b)   Generate funds from net internal sources equivalent to not
less than 55% for 1991-94 and 70% for 1995-97, of its average
annual capital investment for that year and the next one;
(c)   Maintain a ratio of debt to equity not greater than 60:40;
(d)   Take all necessary measures to meet a series of financial and
operational targets, in addition to the financial covenants
mentioned above (para. 3.21); and
(e)   Finance at least 20% of project cost net of duties and taxes,
in the event that funds other than the Bank loan are made
available for the financing of the Project (para. 3.17).
Assurances were also obtained during negotiations that the GoCh, in its
capacity as uhareholder of BSVAL, shall enter into a "Shareholders'
Agreement" catisfactory to the Bank, with CORFO, the other shareholder of
ESVAL, whereby any payment of cash dividends or distribution of share
capital would be made only after ESVAL has met the requirements for net
internal cash generation and debt-equity ratio. To safeguard the financial
soundness of the use of ESVAL's funds in the event that funds (other than
the Bank loan) are made available for the financing of the Project, it was
also agreed that any funds from internal sources that are not needed for
complying with requirement (e) above would be used to either pay dividends
to the shareholders or make investments acceptable to the Bank, in
addition to those included in the Project.
No agreements were sought on an adequate rate of return (except as a
financial monitoring indicator), since the proposed operation provides for
a water and sewerage pricing system based on average long run costs to be
implemented within the present legal framework (para. 1.9).
4.2   The development of ESVAL's finances depends mainly on the size of
its capital investment program and its financing, the growth of sales and
the applicable rates, and the efforts to increase efficiency, thereby
keeping  operating  costs  low.    The proposed  1991-97  total  capital
investment program of ESVAL amounting to about US$150 million marks a
departure from the stagnation of the eighties and amounts to a 60%
increase in gross fixed assets. Due to the quality boost in sewerage
services, investment per connection will increase by 25% to US$862



- 26 
(para. 2.7).  Sales growth will be only modest (paras. 2.4 and 2.5).  The
scope for efficiency gains is essentially limited to a reduction of
losses, as most of the services suitable for outoourcing have already been
contracted (para. 2.19). The rate increasee will have the highest impact
on the improvements of the company's finances  (para. 2.8).   Further
details on ESVAL's financial projections are presented in Ax20.
Pr_oiect Justification and Benefits
4.3   The proposed water and sewerage schemes for the Greater Valpara1eo
Metropolitan Area were selected as the least-cost solutions after
compreheneive feasibility studies were carried out involving a thorough
technical comparison of several alternatives.  In the selection of the
water oupply system components, particular importance was assigned to the
staging of investments in accordance with priorities.
4.4   The proposed project is expected to generate important tangible, as
well as intangible, benefits. The benefits of the water supply component
will be derived from productivity gains resulting from the optimization
and rehabilitation of the system, and from increased water sales. The
sewerage component of the project is expected to yield important
environmental and public health benefits by eliminating sewage
contamination from public beaches and water courses throughout the area.
It would also improve the quality of fish, shellfish, and other marine
species used for human consumption, and increase the region's
attractiveness for tourism.
4.5   In justifying the project, the approach adopted was to carry out a
modified financial analysis of the Greater Valparafso Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (the main component of the proposed project), as a proxy
for the minimum levels of costs and benefits which would be expected from
the project.   Incremental costs and revenues were calculated as the
difference between "with-project" and "without-project" values. Revenues
from consumer charges based on the recent tariff legislation were used as
a minimum measure of the project's economic benefits. The main conclusion
that can be drawn from this type of analysis is the appropriateness of
tariff levels expected to be levied during the project period. No attempt
was made to calculate consumer surplus, or to quantify the health and
other environmental benefits expected to be generated by the project. As
such, the estimated internal rates of return (IRR) presented below
substantially underestimate the expected economic return from the project.
4.6   The overall IRR of the Greater Valparaiso water supply and sewerage
project is estimated at 14.6%, which is above the opportunity cost of
capital in Chile (approx. 10%) - Annex 21.   This indicates that the
combined water and sewerage rates for ESVAL's service area are acceptable
as they cover the long-run average cost of the proposed project.
4.7   The average incremental cost (AIC) of the Greater ValparaLso water
supply and sewerage project, which was calculated as the ratio between the
present value of the project incremental cost and the present value of the
volume of water supplied to the consumers or the number of inhabitants



27 -
served, at a 10% discount rats, is 7.5 cont/me or US$10.1 per inhabitant
served (Annex 21).  These figures are low and below those obtained in
similar projects elsewhere and are therefore considered attractive.
4.8   Sensitivity tests carried out (Annex 21) have shown that the project
is significantly sensitive to reduction in water and sewerage rates
(revenues), moderately sensitive to increases in capital costs, and only
elightly sensitive to changes in system efficiency (water losses). While
it is unlikely to assume that the capital costs could be much higher than
the estimated costs which were based on detailed designs plus 10% physical
contingencies, these results stress the importance of ensuring that no
adverse changes in the pricing system for water and sewerage services
would occur.
4.9   water SuTolv.  The IRR of the water supply project component alone
is estimated at 27.4% (Annex 21).  The water supply project would enable
ESVAL to improve the quality of the water supplied to the consumers and
the reliability of the service.  The gradual reduction of the percentage
of unaccounted-for water would be the main overall indicator of the
success of the proposed program.  If this project were not undertaken, the
water supply service to the Greater Valparaiso Area would deteriorate and
operational costs and water losses would gradually increase, with the
consequent need for larger, unjustified investments in the future.  The
average incremental cost (AIC) of the water supply component of the
project,  calculated as the ratio between the present value of the
incremental cost of the water supply system and the present value of the
volume of water supplied to the consumers or the number of inhabitants
served, at a 10% discount rate, li 2.5 cent/t3 or US$3.1 per inhabitant
(Annex 21).
4.10 Sewerage. The IRR of the sewerage project component alone is 7.0%.
This does not include any of the important health and other environmental
benefits of the projects (already mentioned elsewhere) that cannot be
accurately quantified. The average incremental cost (AIC) of the sewerage
component of the project, calculated as the ratio between the present
value of the incremental cost of the sewerage system and the present value
of the volume of water supplied to the consumers or the number of
inhabitants served, at a 10% discount rate, is 5.0 cent/m3 or US$6.6 per
inhabitant - see Annex 21.
4.11  The water supply component of the project has a higher estimated
rate of return than the sewerage component, because capital investments
involved in water supply, which are mostly for improvement of an existing
system, are lower than those involved in sewerage which are mostly for
construction of a new collection and disposal system.   The results
obtained seem to indicate that, while the combined water and sewerage rate
is satisfactory, the sewerage rate itself is too low (despite its high
proportional increase planned for the next few years), and it is
"subsidized" by the high water rate. The main explanation of this result
is that most of the intangible benefits of the project, which are
difficult to quantify and were not included in the economic evaluation,
pertain to the sewerage component. Moreover, this has no major practical



- 28 -
relevance considering that moot users in the Greater Valparaiso
Metropolitan Area are connected to both water and sewerage (water coverage
is about 95% and sewerage coverage is 85%).
Environmental Impact
4.12 The Pacific Ocean coast from Playa Ancha in the south to the
Aconcagua River in the north, as well as the Quilpud-Vlfia creek, which
flows through the center of Vifta del Mar, are at present contaminated by
direct or indirect untreated sewage discharges.  The main evidence of
sewage contamination is the high concentration of fecal coliforms that
originate from domestic sewage, indicating the possible presence of
pathogenic microorganisms that may constitute a direct or indirect public
health hazard. About 70% of the coastline investigated (30 km) was found
to contain fecal coliforms in higher concentrations than the permissible
limit according to international and Chilean standards for bathing waters
(l,O00/lOOml). Along half the coastline investigated, the concentration
of fecal coliform bacteria exceeded 10,OO0/lOOml in the summer season,
i.e., one order of magnitude higher than the permissible limit.
4.13 A considerable improvsament in the quality of bathing water in the
Vifia del Mar bay, where a large number of public beaches are located, is
expected to occur after the completion of the project. On the other hand,
the increased amount of wastewater discharged through the existing
Bustamante tunnel, from about 0.5 mW/s at present to 4.5 m3/s in the year
2000 and 6.25 m3/s in the year 2020, will have no adverse effect of
practical significance, but the radius of the area affected by fecal
bacteria concentrations higher than permissible (1,000/lOOml) would
increase from 200 to 300 m at present to about 1,000 m south and west of
the tunnel outlet (Anneg 22). No fishing would be allowed in the area
located in the vicinity of the Bustamante tunnel; this is an area of rocks
and strong waves that does not present favorable fishing condltions.
4.14 The small amount of sewage that would be discharged through the
Concon marine outfall should not present any problem.   of much more
concern is the contamination caused in the same area by the discharge of
the Aconcagua River, which contains some industrial contaminants. This is
being dealt with by other entities, separately from this project.
Agreement was reached during negotLations that the GoCh will carry out not
later than June 30, 1993 an environmental study of the municipal and
industrial pollution sources of the Aconcagua River, based on Terms of
Reference acceptable to the Bank, and propose criteria for industrial
effluent diacharge into the Aconcagua River and the Pacific Ocean coast.
An understanding was also reached that, based on this study and other
studies, CONAMA (Comision Nacional para el Medio Ambiente) would be set up
industrial effluent criteria for the Aconcagua River and the Pacific
Ocean, within the framework of the Environmental Institutions Technical
Assistance Loan.
4.15 A comprehensive environmental monitoring program is ineluded in the
project to ascertain whether the sewage disposal solution adopted will
provide the expected environmental results, and to3 determine whether any



- 29 -
additional measures need to be taken at a later stage. An agreement was
reached during negotiations that ESVAL woulds (a) furnish to the Bank not
later than December 31, 1991 a comprehensive environmontal monitoring
program satisfactory to the Bank; (b) carry out such program before,
during and after the construction of the sewage dliposal system;
(c) submit to the Bank its results twice a year (April and October) for
review; and (d) adjust such program to incorporate suggestions made by the
Bank.
Social Impact
4.16 During the construction period, the project would provide a
significant amount of local employment. The project will bring about an
increase in the population served by house connections by about 12,000
inhabitants per year in the Greater Valparaiso area. A large part of
these  new  connections  will  serve  poor  urban  beneficiaries.    The
improvements in the water supply service included in the project, such as
creating uniform water pressure, increasing the storage capacity, and
strengthening parts of the distribution system, will eliminate
discrimination in service quality, and benefit mostly the urban poor,
whose level of service is generally lower. Improvements in the sanitary
conditions of the area resulting from the adequate sewage disposal system
to be constructed would benefit the whole population by reducing pollution
and health risks.
Risks and Safecuards
4.17 No major risks are foreseen for the implementation of this project.
Two foreseen risks relate to: (a) the capacity of ESVAL to carry out
adequately and in a timely manner a project of this magnitude; and (b) the
implementation of the tariff policies that would ensure the availability
of the counterpart funds that have to be generated by ESVAL.  Despite
ESVAL's excellent performance in the execution of the first Bank loan and
the fact that most of the final designs for the project have already been
completed, the proposed project is a major undertaking for ESVAL, of a
magnitude much greater than its past activities, that would require the
strengthening of all the company's systems. This will be met by means of
a comprehensive reorganization already under way, and an action plan to
improve ESVAL's operational and administrative efficiency, both of which
have been agreed during negotiations. The Government's policy on water
tariffs has paved the way for ESVAL and the other water companies to
increase rates in line with the long-run average cost. An agreement that
the present tariff policies would indeed be implemented was reached during
negotiations.



- 30 -
5                          -o'E@SL0GgM1.NRRRB2W1^GIE
5.1   During negotiatione, assurances were obtained flm the oggCh that it
would:
(a)   Not make changes to the water oupply legislation or the tariff
legislation that would materially and adversely affect ESVAL'l
ability to carry out the Project (paras. 1.11 and 2.8)1
(b)   Review yearly the system of direct income subeLdLes for water
and adjust lt as needed, ln a manner satisfactory to the Bank,
to reflect the results of the experienoe accumulated (paras.
1.14 and 2.9)t
(c)   Enter into a Shareholders Agreement with CORFO allowings
(i) dletributlon of cash dividends only from the amounts
avallable after compliance with ESVAL's self-financing and
debt-equLty ratlo requirements (para. 4.1)t and
(ii) the use of any net additional lnternal funds (becoming
avallable as a result of cofinancing of the project) for
either dividends or capltal Lnvestments, only after ESVAL has
financed wlth internal funds at least 20% of project cost net
of duties and taxeo (para. 3.17 and 4.1);
(d)   Carry out not later than June 30, 1993 an envLronmental study
of the Aconcagua River and propose crlteria for Lndustrial
effluent dLscharge into the Aconcagua River and the PacLfic
Ocean coast (para. 4.14);
5.2   During negotiations, assurances were obtained from ESLAL that it
would:
(a)   Continue to increase water and sewerage tariffs in Lts service
area to the maximum provided by the current tariff legislation
(para. 2.8);
(b)   Submit to the Bank not later than September 30, 1991, a plan
of action to improve its operational and administrative
efficiency and carry out changes in its organizational
structure, and implement such plan (para. 2.14);
(c)   Submlt to the Bank not later than November 30,  1991, a
training program for its staff, and implement such plan
(para. 2.15);
(d)   Contract insurance services to expand coverage in terms and
amounts acceptable to the Bank, by September 30, 1991
(para. 2.21);



31 
(a)   Use qualified private independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and make the audit report available to the Bank by April
30 of each year (para. 2.23);
(f)   Finance at least 20% of project cost net of duties and taxes
with funds from net internal sources, in case of cofinancing
of the project with additional funds other than the Bank loan
(para. 3.17);
(g)   Provide aufficient personnel, funds and other resources to
ensure the adequate functioning of the Project Coordinating
Unit (para. 3.19);
(h)   Carry out together with the Bank an in-depth mid-term review
of the project by September 30, 1994 (para. 3.21);
(i)   Submit to the Bank for review its financial and operational
projections for the next five years by September 30 of each
year (para. 4.1...(a);
(j)   Generate funds from net internal sources equivalent to not
less than 55% for fiscal yeara 1991 through 1994 and 70% for
fiscal  years  1995 though  1997,  of the average  capital
investment program for that fiscal year and the next
(para. 4.1...(b);
(k)   Maintain a ratio of debt to equity not greater than 60:40
(para. 4.1...(c);
(1)   Take all measures necessary to meet a series of operational
and financial targets each year (paras. 3X21 and 4.1..(. d);
(i)   Carry out a comprehensive environmental monitoring program,
satisfactory to the Bank,  before,  during and after the
construction of the Project's sewage dispo-~.a. system
(para. 4.15).
5.3   During negotiations, an agreement was reached that the signing of the
Shareholders' Agreement would be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.1).



CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO  ATER SUPPLY AND AE         MJECI
ates for later ad Severage Cabined hy bRinm
I     AWAL SALES REVENES AND AVERE RATES FOR  ATER AND SEMBE LON9NFD 'I                                    OSAE TO PREVIOS EA  IN REAL TERMS:
I tAIES BefhE  SATES AER  RATES AFTER  RATES AF1ER  RITEs AFiER  RATES AFTER I RATES AFTER RATES AFTER RATES AFlER RATES AFTER RATEs AFT   TOTAL FRmi I
I                              1 06101t990   06;0119    01J01/191"    0710511992   0701113   01/0111994  I 06i0111t0  07/01119/1  07101/192m  07101f3  07D/1'94  0513511990D  I
t                              :                                                                                t                                                             TO 0I1011J9"41
t-A A  e RMEl t MN3JCSIAtl       T CD199O0PEDSO -            I                                -1-
S                              *                                                                                 t     -I
I ESION I                       1         109           131         145           I62          184          22 1         20.2        10.7        11.7        13.4         9.9         6LS 
I ES6ION II                    I           1I           544         179           218          259          211 1        23.1        24.3        21.8        59.8         t.9        134.8 1
I RESII III                     1          65           100          10           II9          133          IS0 1        17.b         6.0        10.2        15.6        12.8         74.5 1
I liESIII IV                    I                       92          97           10          I10          115 1        20.6        19.3         9.3         3.6         4.5         U9.l :               w
I ECsil I(EALI                 S           5 I8         72           19             e          n? 1121                   28.C         9.7        1.          52.35       1i3.        100.0 I
I KEIMIlU   EBIM  Ml                       42'          47           52             8           66           64 1        II.9        10.6       1i.5         I3.s         0.0         57.1
S RESClIVI                      I          51           6            68            70           72           75:         17.6        13.3         2.9         2.9         4.2         47.1 5
S REGiON VII                    I          52           63            75           B0           82           9 1         21.2        19.0         6.1         2.5         4.9         65.4:
I RS11i5 VIII                   I          43           53           65         *. 13            3           97 1        23.3        22.6        12.3        13.7         4.8        I02.3;
I RESIN 11                     I          .55           60            4 eBS                     93           971         23.6        23.5         6.0         4.5         4.3         76.4 1
I lECIIII I                                56           61            14           19           93           90G         59.6        10.4         5.4         C.4         3.4         60.1 1
I SESION D                     I           69           99          103          tlS           133          139 1        30.9        15.7        15.5        15.8         4.5        104.4 t
I RESIGN Ii                    S  *        68           92                        I 1         132          135 1        20.6        19.5        59.4        52.8         2.          98.3 5
SI OTAL UFIIW    UIES         -            52           hi,          70            71           37           95         117.3        14.3        11.4        11.5         4.6         1.0 I
I                              I 
S 3NLIVIA. L  P   1. Un    I             L.34         0. 3         0.37         0.39          0.40         0.421                                                                           I
I 93*1t1 Cliba 19 " 5O   1             0.19 1)                                                                I
I                   II I ll  11931 on) I   0.20 1)                                                             I
tEIICII            "I5rrw   W59I7 l6^   1  0.30 11 
S  Ut    tevimI 19  115117     1  0.39     0.39         0.39         0.38         0.39         0.39                                                                             s
, -4u n. -
IS year 931
Edaa   nat 511990               01-1 216.N1U15-1 1.0
5~~~~t



- 33 -
Page I of 2
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Targeted Subsidy for Water and Sewerage
The CAS System in General
The targeting of major family income transfers/subsidies through the CAS
system (CAaracteristicas Socioeconomicas) in Chile has two distinguishing
features: (i) qualification as a beneficiary requires the explicit request of the
head of the household; and (ii) eligibility is determined on the basis of an
extensive questionnaire filled out by a social worker during a visit to the
household. Through the questionnaire a wide variety of socioeconomic data are
being collected, which are related to housing conditions, family size, health,
education, employment, income, and subsidies received. Information that cannot
b.e checked through inspection is self-reported. Points are given and a weight
attached to each category resulting in a total score which determines the degree
of need.  Analysis of information collected via the CAS survey serves as the
basis for allocating various cash benefits (the Subsidio Unico Familiar and
Pensiones Asistenciales) and housing subsidies.
The Proposed Subsidy for Water and Sewerage
The procedure for qualifying for this subsidy has some specifics related
to the public service concerned, but otherwise is similar to the one just
described.   Potential beneficiaries first have to present a request to the
municipality showing they do not consume more than 20 m3 per month and are up to
date with water bill payments. If this first test is positive, social workers
of the municipality then visit potential beneficlaries to determine socioeconomic
level applying the CAS system. Individuals are then ranked according to score
and should receive the subsidy if their position is within the total number of
slots made available to the municipality by the Intendencia. The classification
is valid for a period of 3 years. The subsidy covers both the fixed and the
variable (consumption) related part of the rate. It is first calculated for the
variable part of the rate; the subsidy is applied only to the first 10 mi3, a
consumption of a maximum of 2.25 m3 per permanent household member, or the actual
consumption, whichever is lower. The percentage resulting from this calculation
is then also applied to the part of the bill that is independent of the amount
consumed. The total subsidy can reach between 252 and 75% of the total billing.
Ti- water company bills the consumer for the amount to be paid by him and the
municipality for the amount of the subsidy. Both are then expected to pay the
water company.



- 34 -
Annex 2.
pane 2 of 2
Potential problems with this system beyond the normal difficulties in
putting something new in place and making it work might result from the following
features.   The exclusion by the municipality of those customers who are in
arrears restricts the number of potential beneficiaries in an unnecessary way.
It would improve the performance if this distinction would not be made for the
general qualification but only by the water company at the time of monthly
billing. The same could be said for the limit on the monthly water consumption
of a maximum of 20 m3 because thl.a may vary according to the season. The role
of the municipality would therefore be limited to determining the number of
potential beneficiaries on the basis of their socioeconomic criteria.
Restricting the subsidized consumption to a household of 4 persons with a maximum
use of 2.25 m3 penalizes larger families. For potential beneficiaries it is
difficult to understand the requirement stipulited in the decree that in order
to qualify for the water subsidy they have to provide the same information about
their socioeconomic status the municipality has already required during previous
investigations for other subsidies. The legislation allows the municipality to
use 85% of the unallocated funds for the financing of water supply and sewerage
projects  for  low-income  consumers.   This provision may  limit the  full
implementation of the subsidy, since it might be politically more attractive to
construct new facilities than to provide a continuous payment for water
consumption.



- 35 -
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Water Sector Investments, 1980-1990
(in current US$)
YEAR         EMOS     ESVAL    SENDOS          TOTAL
1980          3.9       0.2       23.4          27.5
1981          5.7       0.2       29.2          35.1
1982         11.2       0.6       27.2          39.0
1983       '28.6        0.1       16.2          44.9
1984        20.2        0.7       35.0          55.9
1985         7.3        1.0       37.3          45.7
1986        10.1        1.1       34.7          45.9
1987         8.2        2.1       34.9          45.1
1988         7.4        3.6       35.7          46.6
1989         12.7       6.5       36.4          55.6
1990        16.8        3.9        (1)          20.8
TOTAL 1980    131.9        20.0     310.0         462.0
Average         v12.0       1.8      28.2          42.0
Minimum          3.9        0.1      16.2           27.5
Maximum        '28.6        6.5      37.3           55.9
(1) Data for the various regional water companries
which have replaced SENDOS in 1990 are not available.
(2) Totals for 1990 and for 1980-1990 do not include
SENDOS investments in 1990.
EMOS (28.6X)
\S ()VAL (4zr.)
SENDOS (67.1X)  .  



sewu vvmm  miii u'H. N3m sit man
UIJIY Ai KN3  FM 88          MU H 31336 1313 E231912.113I2E AREA
n1u   I29         1m        297      nss       199      190       299       22       2993       I99        25         1996      29 7            193     9       2000
4                 -        actual                               '-.---------------Atha)-  Prenrt Fastrat
halt kta
Wi. Fupslatim 2040                      21,96.3  1,165.0  1,125.6  1,i39.S   1,157.V  1,177.5  1,185.4  1,207.1  1,230.2   1,253.0   1,271.2   1,299.3   1,31.t    ,1.0    1,37.1  ,3114    I,3.5
Pirple per mater aor                        4.72      4.1      4.U        4.13    4.60      4. 4      4.46     4.43       .0       4.37       4.34       4.31       4.28      4.25       4.22      49         4.21
tPimle per mawap cmsctIa                   5M2       4.99      4.U6      4.93     4.9       4.87      4.84     4.31      4.1J       4.75      4.72       4.9       4.66       4.63       4.60      4.57       4.54
Service t mvnp eater ageple 1               92.4      91.6     93.4       4.3       4.9     9.0       9.6      9;.I      91.0       97.2      9.1        97.4      91.9       9.3        91.7      99.0         .4
Seic cerae           agel                      a.     N.e.    15.3       78.3    1M.6       9.1       32.0     12.1      33.4       84.3      15.2        5.6      U.7        87.1       S8.5      39.4       9.
leuimtu   IutI                             13.3    252.4    41.0    1461.5    149.2    252.         144.6    144.1    142.0       138.4     132.   1230.2         130.7     131.1      131.6,    132.1      132.1
htmlae Ilili                               236.2    131.2    1833.      I         28         t.                2q.Z   2I:J        2,1j.j     '0:        2Rj.      Iq:         I:        2IM       1          IM:
I            04100.tb                      Th?    Al     u:i    211:6    211    2                    ,                    .0      2 .5      2          2: 2        4.1      21         22         270:4     2n.i
Weccalsi-lr matr M1                    .41.      46.      46.3I     44.9      43.8      1.       40.3     40.5      40.2       39.8      3.3.       37.2       36.5      35.9       35.2       34.5      33.9
lamriae2emter truatnt eIucp         4.4      4.3       4.4      4.4       4.5       4.4       4.3      4.4       4.5       4.5        4.4        4.4       4.5        4.6        4.1       4.3        4.9
hatd fatterT                                30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0      30.0     30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0       30.0      30.0       30.0
Pgred  al: mte tatmut eIdml                  5.7      5.6       5.1       5.7      5.8       5.8       5.6      5.L       5.3        5.        5.7        L.1        5.6       6.0        6.1       6.2        6.4
Trat  ater t  ruI ct1 Ell adth ISIml          .       5LE       5.        5 LI     5.9        .        6.3      1.3       6.4        L.        L.         6.1       7.2        7.2        7.2       7.2        7.2
TrtMe aplma latagel IeIaK                    0.1      0.2       0.1       0.2      0.1       0.5       0.7      0.6       0.6        2.0       1.2        2.0        1.4       2.3        1.1       1.0        0.9
ater ra sw pe  is i I     ts                11.5        .       9.5      10.7     21.2      14.1      19.3     21.6      25.4       23.4      32.2       35.4       3.3       31.4       40.0      41.3       42.3
Eater Semplo
a lati                                          226,367   224,64    2,225   233,946 251,933  256,426   213,621  270,93    2738,353   285,832    23,524   3012,21    309125    32?,I2    325,257    3,490
1swwatr.                                   9       309M925             941      966       9 9       99      ,02      206         ,1        ,00       202         ,3        61033     ,045       ,052      1,058
uow cial                               l3,465   13,32     12,243   23,014      3,404    14,00    14 ,2     1 3    24,3 74X17 15,75        5,481    151,121     ,1902    11,25    6,149    21013         17,412
Iltc                                    2,51      2,s      2,236     2,056     2,022    1,010    I,010    2,00         993       In4        915        965      -956        94         931       92         911
hUI  Stapp                                130      111        11 fie0                      is        34       90        96        102       I00        114       122        126        133        13        146
Fro d new                      In~~~23   244       252      200       292       198      202       201      221        215       220        225        229       234        239        244        249
p ws450                                       392    2,145    I,09       2,6       1,4      232        ,4       154        ,6        273        ,0        2.019     2,240      2,262      2,387     2,531
mtau                                  223,005  2312,6    240,420  24,535   255,690  2661.44   274,'336  2811941  239,670   297,510    35,468   3113,45   321,743   330,064    338,5210   341,M23    355,78
radi                                                        112,3    231,025   185,123   194,95S  200,865  207,321  214,742   m,446   230,452   237,173   245,331    253,130   261,174   269,414   278,067
Idalrial                                                     156       711      181       19        333      842       351       36         071       m81       b9S        901       911        122        933
cas ciml                                                  20.352   10,994    21,319   t2,760   12,001   12,214   12,530    12,898    133229    13,532    13,343           4,         4,41      24,1      125,195
Paibc                                                       993       894      874       966       19?      M3        M3         113       166        160       153        11         740       133        72
Palle U0611"                                  ~    ~ ~~~~~2  I    0         0         0        0         0          0         0          0         0          0          0         0          0
Ph'iof                                                       11t IIp   139       141      ISO       142      143       245        141       149        150       152       1n3         155       157        159
rs                                                           32        46       66        m          28n     932     2049       1272      2, m        ,42       1,5317    2,:1        17       2,921      2,058
134,371   194,326  299,562  209,321  215,461   22,297      I 23,27             4676                                                2804
S*Wdl11t7    s,2                                                              S,52 it31 254                 ,      230 1U7   230 297   2U W7 U          ZU517   262,5N1   2tO,7S7   279,207   2,01t   297,117
laalduatlai                            56,33U  55,2B4   55,151    56,561    59,023    62,029    9,601       ,642    61,005    6O,64    59,407    59,407       10,763    627 ,3      63,52     64,938    66,36
Imimatrinl                              2,u64    2,331     2,192    2,394     3,261    3,21    3,5M8       3,184    3,958      4,239      4,327     4,524      4,723     4,941      5,163      5,394      5,634
Ceoeirci a                              5.141    5,97      6,532     7,456    10,539   10,8S5   10,823    22,492   12,200    J2,945    13,723    14,553    15,420    16,331         1,290      I 28,29   19,357
lIc                                     3,0n2    9,002    9,M        6,080    6,276      ,W40     6,449    6,750    7,03B       7,339     1,653      1',s3     3,32       8,8        9,065     9,460      9,812
ilic Staplpa                              H8        t7        92        85       107      III       121       275      130        233       131        141       145        149        152       155        159
FM  of Clarge                             234       2U       272       32        31       342       275       M92      309        327       34         36         381       409        at        455        419
ftlrs                                      10         0                264        66       68        75       54        39         29        21         15        11          9          J         4          3
Sittl                                  73,410   73,093   15,201   15,78    79,503   82,191   30,931   83,123    34,619    35,515    05,20           U,3       ",11    92,662        9,65      9,703    202,31
hdtial                                                    44,055    47,000   43,a6l   30,23    4,m    35,34    52,4            52,59    s5,9        49,39     51,3U      52,39      54,459    56,31      57,145
lCmtrial                                                   2,254     2,021    2,176    2,244    2,459      2,U0    2,113       2,924      3,084      3,241     3,413      3,591      3,7i      S,90       4,187
Coeswcial                                  ~~~~~~~~~5,244  1,385    3,151  ,406   30,002    3,553     922        9,634  2U 0,541    1,12       I20       2,3        13,3       164,52     2,5
hPil        l                                              7,2166    5,20      5,321    5433    4,959 C     4,-29    5,10      5,276      5,456       ,652      5,8       6,069      6 288      ,5125     &,748
Pbic St.dplpe                                                 I         I         0        0   .0             0         0         0          0          0         0          0          0         0          0
Fre d Dvp                                                    214       m         231      290       m        275       2M         291       30         321       33         341        361        375       3o
Other                                                         16        20         1        I         4        5         6I        6          I          1         1          I          I         I          I
itetad                                                    3,9510,   61,191    6,544    66,563   65,416    6,201   63,116    69,93        19         70,3      73,013    75,744      1358      21,54 5     4,423



SEa WAmAISo wm Tsm  AD  mUM MEC
SmW   NO KM FOIR 1   S _E 11  Ml                      1 EE3S 1E1
i.e                        3934    1915    J1m        I3       lm m       m I      mo       IaI           1992 IT13      M          ms        t"b       1997       19M       19         2000
t -                  -                                         Xprn"ta FKait 
enideb1                            aM44,39   85282   97,461 1 ,M,8   1,552,12,12 3 2,283 4    4,0,128 5,696,594  7,432,296 9,,365 t2,164,1  14,612,145 17,716,5 21,M7,854 2,7n,791 31,M,271
I.gutrial                            26,400   31,29    56,59   11,36       97,281   155,343  2, 91I   325,99   442,190    01,506   843,471  1,109,756  1,311,119  1,687,770 2,010,73 2,565,432  3 112,263
C*ted  V 0            te   e3                 0 2l Na 3    T,75120   91,19   136,814  245,711  327,509  495,4975,0It 059,21 1,461,213 2,034,240 2,864,95   3,82,293 4,77,92 5,9,59   7,461,303 9,311,505 11n631,M
PAlic                       %~~~~~~9,539   140,4I0  191,909   319,fi9   185,199   211,6   420,35  "".    192,05   1,083.150  1,500,B10  1,970,22   2,425,253 2,995,117  3,111,0M   4,526,526 5,514.182
Mli S                                  20       2,642    1,531    1,        2 1                           ,      11,121    15,031    20,545    21,564    32,158    38,884    46,965    51,616    60,314
Fj'lt of tkwp  ~     ~          0        0         6                        0       0                      0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0          0
ett                                                         7 0  0   10,030   21,69   34,048   52,383   49',9M    $7,110    44,811    43,054    39t,15    33,23      29,293    24,009    20,349    11,230
Subt$ta                              83,464 1,131,95  1,314,315 1,110,956 2,181,99  3,090,214 4,114,219 6,381,II5 9,450,912 11,217,540 14,938,223 tt19,3?,19 23,220,501 28,429,901 34,663,112 42,261,262 51,543,403
k        >                                sn0155,59   14s,9  252,011  359,932  591,49  163,J131,294,53  1,943,76 13,206,39  4,115,1   5,603,104. 6,813,439 8,211,428 10,051,644 12,222,214
[A idl                                                9,529    9,574   12,112   19,844   31,243   41,338   13,943   111,141   205,481    318,424   395,307   490,90    609,455   756,561   939,129
labstftal                                                23,115   35,13     48,541    1, 21   111,15   119,251  284,323   451,02   8114    1,284,646  1,617,863  2,036, 70   2,5 3,037  3,224,218 4,054,649
ghic                                                     30,230   23,649   30,12    44,29    13,42   103,515 15.2518   245,503   423,615   645,793   189,739   915.4    180,649  1,443,318  1,164153
MIcS5ta16pIs                                               4       1'2'    1g2        1e1       5O0      t63      Ue2        *t.       7sI  0  0  0  0  0  0  0  0      0         0          00
b . ibg                                                       0        0        0         0        0         0        0          0         0         0          0         0          0         0         0
StIkW6                                                            0         0        0              0        0        0          0         0          0         0         0          0         0          0
S1.lal                                                  213,474  253,03  344,047   4U ,       319,5       1,1129  1,3   2,17 ,413 4,652,035  81,431       3 ,410,    t0J36,12i 12,131,59t15,412,147 11  143
kw    aupI  p    ..   oahel to3
hU;"ti2 2.13    21.6                                       21.0     20.6     20.9      20.8     39.7      19.4     19.5       184       17.5      11.1       11.0      17.0       16.9      11.3       11.1
lhihstiai                              215.9     I 241.4   1-7.    251.4    215.4    290.8    303.1    315.       329.3    311.3       354.1     362.6      313.0     391.8      413.1     428.9      445.3
ameuial                                 46.3      46.9     41.2     63.       65.3       .       13.6     16.4      19.0      73.8      14.1       11.6      80.A      83.1       36.9      90.2       93.5
-A' e                                  311.2    311.3    491       442.1    507.4    532.2    52.0    59.3    538.3 11g9               651.4      185.      112.      171.0      102.1    45T.7         2 M.0
Mdlii s1u1ps                            389.5    115.5     85.      10.8    136.I    125.0    124.5    120.3    11.4         112.       10.4      10S.2     102.2      100.4     91.1        95.2      92.8
Fro 1o CIw,                            144.1    154.3    153.2    11.2    14S.3    146.2    114.5    313.9    123.4          32.0       132.6     197.3     142.1     141.0      152.0      157.1     162.3
am"                                      8.9      0.6       3.3      12.2      5.1      4.9       4.9      3.3       2.2       1.5        1.0       0.7       0.5       0.3        0.2       0.1        0.1
G*total                                 27.A     21.3      26.5     25.3      26.3     21.2      24.o     24.9     24.?       24.3      23.?       23.4      21.6      2313       23.8     'N4.0       24.2
Inibdid                                    ~~~~~~~~22.4  22.2  22.2     22.0      21.0     20.7      20.3      If.7       ILI3      17.3      31.7       11.1      17.6      31.1       17.1
I16owtrl                                                  241.5    219.7    231.9    235.3    251.3    251.1    213.0        284.1     29.1       303.9     321.5     334.5      347.9     561.9      376.1I
C.wmrial                                                   42.2     57.1      60.1 I    0.5      5.3      53.1      11.5      14.3      61.2       10.2      13.2      11.4       19.1      82.9       66.3
Mlii                                                      603.4    451.2    501.2    525.2    493.5    520.5    542.8        516.1     590.      6111.      645.0     614.3      105.1     737.5      773.6
Fdlic staolpips                            ~~~~~42.1  55.6      0.0      0.0       0.       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Froli StuOm*                                              151.4    219.2    l13.      11.       051.     10.3    064.9       1019.     114.5      279.      111.5      119.7     195.0     200.4      206.0
Free.4                                                      4.1      2.1.      0.1      0.2       0.4      0.4       0.5       0.5       0.5        0.4       0.4       0.         0.4       0.4        0.
hetoWal                                                    21.6     21.2      21.3     2.1.      25.1     25.1     25.3       24.9      24.2-      23.       23.5      23.        23.3      24.0       24.1
late Me MIO
hsl.alIaI                    22~~~~~1.44    15.43    17.19    22.50    26.31    34.35    55.31    11.90    93.31    122.52    162.70    204.11   241.13    25.32    33644    W.0           461.4
IobtrilI                               12.19    16.4      20.34    24.66    30.73    46.92    16.03    361.4   HIM.3        146.11    194.92    245.33    29948    341.59    403.01    415.63    561.24
Iguorcial                              11.45    16.31    20.95    25.45    31.06    45.41    10.69    92.22   119.17    151. 15    26.19t    262.65    309.92    365.71    431.54    509.22    600.88
hMii                                   20.93    I5.30    19.13    21.11    29.30    42.14    16.43    31.1    112.55    14.16    M9.09    246.8            291.23    343.65    405.50    413.50    564.62
FMlii Stuolpn                          22.94     L05.2    16.10    15.34    21.5      56.02    50.69     U 16.2    15.8     112.67    149.15    238.32    222.21      .21.2     309.42    265.11    430.83
free of bago                            0.80     LO 0.0 0       0.00 0.         OO 0.00  0.00        0.00 L0.        O  0.3   0.0       0.00       0.00      0.O       0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Stbes                                   0.OG     0.00      0.00    61.11   329.16   500.71   70.11   9)9.31 1,194.4   1,567.42  2,661.49   2,639.14   3,091.30  3,647.13  4,304.32  5,079.10  5,993.32
hetata                                 11.31    21.49    3L41    23.31    21.52    31.60    S."5.9       16.5    99.11o   133.418   l1.41u    219.95    259.15    301.1         362,45    429.22    505.97
gnihdid                                    ~~~~~~~~~3.53  3.3  L.13     7.2511  .99        11.60    25.37     31.17     12.3       92.52    109.11    121.12    152.01    I1.37    221.46
Isbetrial                                                  4.23     4.11      5.314    1.40    12.11    18.12    26.61       39.92     16.13      3.04    215.19    336.51    111.03    190.08    224.29
Cagrijal                                                   4.41     4.83      5.96     9.4      24.11    20.95    33.00      46.41     11.46    113.93    134.49    158.70    211.21    220.91    26.175
MA6g                                                       4.22     4.63      5.18     9.38     14.11    22.90    31.01      46.53     17.3      114.27    334.84    159.11    181.15    221.55    261.42
M2IIC sta4lpoe                                             2.00     2.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     0.00       0.00      0.80       0.O0      0.38      0.00       6.80      0.80       0.00
Free @1 Darge,                                                  0.00     0.38  0.0     0.00      0.0O.D   0.00                0.80L     0.8  .00LOO  0.00 6.00                         0.00      0.80   0.6
Stes                                                       08  0.00LO         0.00     0.00      0.OO     L.0       0.00      0.00      6.6O       3.8.00  0O .00                 0.00      0.00      0.80
S*Mtta                                                     3.71     4.10      5.33     7.43    22.52    11.11    21.34       39.50     61o0       91.52    115.20    136.07    23.1    2199.11    224.21



- 38  -
Eata -3 of 
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Histogram of Household Clients for Water Supply
January - December 1990
monthiy      Annual       Annual   ...Annual    Average   Average Averaae   Aver. Cons.
Consumption Consumption Consumption Consumption  Clients   Clients Clients  s3/conn./nonth
Range f3       m3        Cumul  S3  Cusul.     Number   Curul. * Cuaul.l
0             0            0          0.0    18,909   19,808    7.5            0
1-  10      5,470,955   5,470,855          10.2    74,091   92,9889   37.1           6
11 -  20    15,626,266  21,097,121          39.5    86,761  179,650   71.9           15
21 -  30    11,284,213  32,381,334          60.6    38,079  217,729   97.1           25
31 -  40     6,662,326  39,043,660          73.0    15,901  233,630   93.4           35
41 -  50     3,716,132  42,759,792          80.0      6,907  240,537   96.2          45
51 -  60     2,263,336  45,C23,128          84.2      3,435  243,972   97.6          55
61 and more  8,446,243  53,469,371         100.0     6,117  250,089  100.0          115
Total        53,469,371                              250,099                          18



CHILE
SECOND VALPARISO WATER AMD SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESVAL* Ceapitatl Investment Prwrm
............. ................................... .................................. .
(End 1990 ISS  illtion)
Total          Total
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   197   1996   1949   2000 1991-2000    1 19911997  X
........... .................... .....................................................................o*
1. PHYSICAL INVESTNENtS
1.1 Vater Supply
1.1.1 Gran Valparaiso                           2.19   3.50   0.55  10.74   8.68   3.01   0.00   3.00   2.00   2.30    35.97  33.81   28.67  33.1X
Production and Transaission                0.25   0.65   0.48   3.16   2.74   0.00   0.00                              7.29   6.91    7.29   8.41
Treatment                                  1.16   1.48   0.00   1.23   1.14   0.00   0.00                             5.01   4.7X    5.01   5.BX
Distribution                               0.77   1.37   0.07   6.35   4.80   3.01   0.00   3.00   2.00   2.30    23.67  22.3X   16.37  18.91
1.1.2 San Antonio (Southern Coast)              0.07   0.07   0.07   0.07   0.07   0.14   0.14   0.14   0.14   0.14         1.05   1.01    0.63   0.7X
1.1.3 Acwncagu (Northern Coast)                 0.14   0.14   0.14   0.21   0.14   0.21   0.14   0.21   0.14   0.21         1.68   1.1    1.12   1.31
1.1.4 Aconcagua River Valtey                    0.28   0.07   0.14   0.07   0.14   0.07   0.14   0.07   0.14   0.07         1.19   1.11    0.91   1,11
Subtotal Vater Supply (1.1)  2.68   3.78   0.90  11.09   9.03   3.43   0.42   3.42   2.42   2.72    39.89  37.51   31.33 36.Z2
1.2 Sewerase
1.2.1 Gran Vatperalso                           4.54   7.24  12.27   2.04   4.19   3.62   3.97   1.10   1.20   1.40    41.57  39.1I   37.67  43.81
Collection                                 2.59   4.32   6.32   0.89   1.63   0.50   0.00   1.10   1.20   1.40    19.96  18.81   16.26  18.81
PuLping                                     1.95   2.92   5.95   0.00   0.07   0.00   0.00                           10.08  10.21   10.88  12.6X
Treatment and Disposel                     0.00   0.00   0.00   1.15   2.49   3.12   3.97                            10.73  10.11   10.73  12.41
1.1.2 San Antonio (Southern Coant)              0.07   0.11   0.11   0.14   0.14   0.17   0.17   0.21   0.21   0.28        1.61   1.5X    0.91   1.1X
1.1.3 Aconcagum (Northern Coast)               -0.03   0.03   0.04   0.04   0.06   0.06   0.07   0.07   0.09   0.09        0.57   0.51    0.33   0.46
1.1.4 Aconcagua River Valley                    0.04   0.04   0.06   0.06   0.08   0.08   0.11   0.11   0.12   0.12.   0.82   0.81    0.47   0.5S
Subtotal Sewerae (1.2)        4.68   7.42  12.48   2.28   4.47   3.93   4.32   1.49   1.62   1.89   64.57  41.9Z   39.58  45.71
1.3 Other                                         .0.21   0.14   0.18   0.18   0.21   0.21   0.21   0.21   0.21   0.21       1.96   1.81    1.33   1.52
Sd,tottl.Ptyslra  Investments (1)          .7.57  11.34  13.56  13.55  13.71   7.57   4.95   5.12   4.25   4.82    86.42  81.21   72.24  83.51
2. EOJiIIT ACi6SITIOiI                               0.28   0.33   0.30   1.29   1.08   1.25   1.28   1.20   1.30   1.30       9.69   9.1X    5.89   6.8J
3. CONSULTING SERVICES
Institutiaml Developaent                          0.35   0.05   0.11   0.16   0.16   0.13   0.06   0.15   0.10   0.15        1.40   1.3S    1.00   1.2X
Envircnnental Nonitoring                           0.21   0.32   0.32   0.32   0.31   0.31   0.34   0.32   0.32   0.32       3.06   2.91    2.11  2.41
Southern Coast                                    0.26   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.21   0.22   0.00                             0.79   o.71    0.79   0.9x
Northern Coast                               .    0.00   0.00   0.00   0.00   0.10   0.37   0.33                             0.80   0.7X    0.80   0.9S
Supervision                                       0.29   O.4    0.55   O.SS   0.56   0.29   0.17   0.00   0.00   0.00        2.87   2.71    2.87   3.31
sibtotal Consulting Service  (3)           1.11   0.83   0.97   1.12   1.33   1.32   0.90   0.47   0.42   0.47        8.92   8.41    7.58   8.8X
4. AND ACOlSISTION                                   0.09   0.11   0.11   0.11   0.14   0.14   0.14   0.14   0.18   O.18       1.33   1.31    0.84   1.01
TOTAL BASE COST (Deceber 1990)             9.05  12.61  1S.02  16.07  16.25  10.28   7.26   6.92   6.14   6.76   106.37 100.01   86.55 100.01
Physical Contingencies (101)               0.91   1.26   1.50   1.61   1.63   1.03   0.73   0.69   0.61   0.68    10.64  10.0X    8.65  1O.01
Total ease Cost plus Physical Conting.    9.96  13.87  16.53  17.68  17.88  11.31   7.99   7.61   6.75   7.44   117.01 110.0X   95.20 110.01
.....................................................................................................................................................
IMport Duties (and Consuttant Taxes)       0.80   1.19   1.50   1.69   1.81   1.21   0.90   0.73   0.64   0.7t    11.17  10.51    9.09  10.51
TOTAL PROJECT COST with Import Duties    10.75  15.06  18.03  t9.37  19.68  12.51   8.89   8.34   7.40   8.15   128.11 120.5X  104.29 120.51
Value Added Tax (VAT)                       1.84   2.90   3.64   4.10   4.37   2.78   1.96   1.50   1.33   1.47    25.88  24.31   21.58  24.9Z
YOTAL COST with import Duties an  VAT    12.59  17.96  21.66  23.47  24.05  15.29  10.85   9.84   8.73   9.61   154.06 1t.81  125.88 145.41
................................................................................... ....................................................................................................................  
Price ContingencIes-Local                  0.39   1.60   2.95   4.12   5.12   3.83   3.11   3.50   3.66   4.76    33.04  31.11   21.12  24.41
Price Contingencies-Foreign                0.23   0.40   0.44   0.63   1.01   0.90   0.86   0.85   0.78   0.89        6.99   6.6X    4.48   5.2X
Price Contingencies-Total                  0.62   2.00   3.40   4.75   6.13   4.73   3.98   4.35  4.44   5.64    40.03  37.61   25.60  29.61
............................................................................................................................................
TOTAL INVESTIIENTS                        13.20  19.96  25.06  28.22  30.18  20.02  14.83  14.19  13.17  15.26   194.09 182.51  151.4  175.01
.........................................................................................................................................
TOTAL INVESItEUTS V/0 PRICE CONTING.      12.59  17.96  21.66  23.47  24.05  15.29  10.85   9.84   8.73   9.61   154.06            125.88
TOTAL INVESTNENTS W/O VAT                 11.37  17.06  21.42  24.12  25.81  17.24  12.87 12.69  11.84  13.79   160.21             129.90



40 -
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO ATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESVAL's Tariff
1.   The localities in ESVAL's concession area are divided in four groups with
specific rates for each according to their characteristics of water production
and population density.
2.   In each group, all users are in principle charged the same rates,
regardless of whether they are private households, manufacturing or commercial
enterprises, or public entities. There is a fixed charge both for water and
sewerage with a distinction made according to 12 different diameters of house
connections, a fixed charge for the connection of both water and sewerage, and
a variable charge both for water and sewerage according to water consumption.
In addition, during the summer months (December to March) there is also a
surcharge for water (and one for sewerage) for any consumption over 30M3 per
connection per month in Greater Valparaiso and 40m3 in other areas. The switch
to the new tariff system took place for consumption after March 1, 1990, although
at a much lower level. The final level will be reached in June 1994, vith
increases scheduled for June each year. For private household consumers whose
connection has a diameter of 15mm or less and monthly consumption is 20m3 or
less, the increases are steeper because their service has been more heavily
subsidized in the past.                                               s
3.    A private household customer in the area of Greater Valparaiso with a
connection of 13mm diameter (about 40% of residential customers), after full
implementation of the new rate scheme in June 1994 at March 1990 prices, would
be charged as follows:
Fixed   Fixed    Fixed       Variable    Var1abte
Rate    Rate     Rate        Rate       Rate
,ConsuqPtion           Water   Sewerage  Connection   Water    Sewe
mo                  ChS      ChS       ChS       ChS/mj3    ChS/me
1. Without consumo-
tion                209       77       204         -
2. With consumo-
,tion:
2.1 Off season
No. of 3         209       77       204       73 x No m3   23 x No n
2.1 In season
* 30 m3          209       77       204       73 x No m3   23 x No m3
30 m3            209       77       204       73 x 30    23 x No m3
+151 x exce,s
No m'
Exchange Rate 3/90: CHS296.74 * USS 1



41 -
Page I of 3
CHILE
SECOfL)Y VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESVAL - EMPRESA DE OBRAS SANITARIAS DE VALPARAISO
Current Organizational Chart
as of January 1991
.710N]
kL~~~ INTORONACI
f                I  SECRErARIA   I        l~~~~GREN iA
INGENIERIAL FI                    IN   MERCA
SUSGEREN=CI:R-;5GERECI
|~~~       ~SSEFN            J N ENIERI tA   PRVNCA      JEATR        ZONAL  
f~~~~~VLAAS    E3LLT                        ANE          PETORC



- 42 -
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO- WATER SUPPLY AM SEWERAGE PROJECT
ESVAL - EMPRESA DE OBRAS SANITARIAS DE VALPARAISO
Proposed Organizational Chart
Final Stage
OIRECTORlO
OERENCIA
GENERAL
rASESORI                  RELACO1NES
JURIDIC                  PUSUCAS
OESAROU..O ADMINISTRA-    RECURSOS      INGENIERIA      EO
G~R~NCIA  GERENCIA       GGERENf
ZONAt.    ZONAL.ZOA
SAN FUE      SAN ANTONIO    VAPRAS          UILL
_   -



- 43 -
Page 3 of 3
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERE PROJECT
ESVAL - EMPRESA DE OBRAS SANITARIAS DE VALPARAISO
Proposed Organizational Chart
Transition Stage
DIRECTORIO
O2R2NCIA
GENEM
INTERNAENCI          RJURIOICAGNtRI
SU8GERENCIA   SU     ERENCIA SUGERENCIA   SUREN ENGIA    SI      ENC GERENCIA
ZONAL         ZONALf         ZONAL         ZONAL       ASISCIA        COMERCIAL
VALFARAJSO     CUILLOTA     SAN ANTONIO    SAN PEUPE       TECNICA



- 44 -
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAG PROJECT
Institutional Assessment of ESVAL
Implementation
Area           Improvements Reguired        Action Reguired             Begin   End
G e n e r a l   Filling new positions as   Internal  selection  and   05/91   09/91
Management     r e q u i r e d    b y   training.
reorganization.
O r g a n i z -   Implementation    of   Changes in organizational   05/91   04/92
ation          conclusions    o f   structure    including
organization study.         decentralization.
Metering,   Clandestine connections;   User survey.                     06191   12Iq1
Billing  and   Inadequate   routes   of   Rerouting.                    01/92   06i92
Collection     readers;
Inadequate    billing   New Format.                     07/91   09/91
format;
Arrears    of    public   Cash payment and payment   03/91   12/91
sector.                     agreement.
Insurance      Insufficient coverage.      Policy   statement   and   Before    loan
contracting.                negotiations.
Accounting     Limited    management   Amplify by regional and   01/91   09/91
accounting.                 functional cost centers.
Finances       Lack    of    long-term   Introduce    additional   03/91   09191
planning.                   planning systems.
No  budgeting  at  cost   Introduce    additional   01/92   12/92
center level.               budgeting systems.
Computing      Updating  of  equipment   Contract   services   of   02/91   09/91
and introduction of new   computing firm.  New data
software.                   processing  dept.  Employ
qualified personnel.
Personnel      Lack  of  adequate  job   Develop systems.               01191   12/91
descriptions, selection
system,    job    and
performance evaluation,
salary  system,  career
stream.
Training       Lack  of  comprehensive,   Finalize  and  implement   01/91   12/91
long-term plan.             training plan.



- 45 -
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISa KATER& SURPLY AMM OSEW_E_G_E RLO_JIreCT
ESVAL's Train-ink Program fo  199
YEAR 199Ls
Number   No. of    Number         Cost      Cost
of      jPartici-  of             (1000     (in
Area                   Courses  pan.ts     Hours          CH$)       US$)
Management                    6       120       146     2,500    7,418
Technical/Operations         15       345    2,783      5,500   16,320
Information/Computer          7       130       306     3,400   10,089
Commercial                    9       260        91     1,000    2,967
Financial*                    5       100      lO      1,500    4,451
Administrative**             20       407        16     4,813   14,282
Total                        62     1.362    3.442    18.713   55.528
COMPARISON BETWEEN TRAINING IN 1990 AND 1991:
Y e_ a r   1991     Y e a r   1990      Increase 1991/1990
Number   No. of    Number   No. of    Number   No. of
of       Partici-  of        Partici-  of        Partici-
Area                   Courses  pants      Courses  pants      Courses  pants
Management                    6       120         9        8S       -33Z        41%
Technical/Operations         15       345         9        30        67X     1050%
Information/Computer          7       130         2        44       2502       195Z
Commercial                    9       260         0         0        N/A       N/A
Financial*                    5       100         6         8       -172      11502
Administrative**             20       407        15        69        332       4902
Total                       62      1.362        Al-      236         2       4772
* Including Accounting and Audit
** Including Work Safety



- 46
SECOND VALPARAISO HaTER SUPPL  PN EWfACE FRL=C
S^f                          ~~~~~~~121S1/1969                                           8011111990
3,mbste          2       1...  1000       *                 U,b.we          X     Jbcos 1000          X
U  to ;0 days                                        133 090          598       247 ,31       57                 126,546        65.6       451,052         6.1
up to 60 days                                              3,067          24         32,984        7.7                 8.024        5.5         4 1,34        6 1
Upto6  dy                                                2,276   *       1.5       143A          3. 3                1.703         1.2        15,94          2.4
tp eo10 day                                                1.837           1.3        768 s        1.                  1,750        1 2         11.131 U
p to 120 da3                                                              0.7        10,473        2.4                   42         0.3          $,169        0.5
Op to  SO day                                                729        ;.:o.         502         1.2                   969        0.7          7,903         1.2
Up to 180 ~~~~~~~~~~                         AU42          0.31.                                          271        0.           3676         0.6
Up to 210 dais                              5.~~~~~~~~3767  3.6       07.566       15.0                 5.405          S3       130.636        1.
bcoc^L reidour;al OUJ%a"eXS   t 3 707         t 0 6      t3 ^4     ~~100 Os                             as       970  9        lo
ICO. ha2                                               148.2143        10.  100.0              10.014,11                         100.0       6170,995      100.0
Subtotal bbilln  durt   ye r                                                     2519jS                                                     , ,169  44
AoGounts r..lvabl   a 6        .ests (days)*                                           AS.3                                                          a
TIdusetrtal
0p to  40 dyo                                                555         69.2        15.761       s9.1                   48        55.4         20,r35       79.1
Up to 60 day.                                                 23          3.7           347        2.0                    29        E.l            294        1.1
Op to 90 day.                               9          ~~~~         ~~~~       ~~ ~~1.4  333 1.          6        1.1           333         2.0
Up to 120 day'                                                             0.6         308        1l7 1a                           2.1            133        0.3
Op to 130 day.                                                 5          0.5            40 7l3                                    0 s.                    ..1 
Up to 180 day.                                ~~          ~~~~         ~ ~~~2 0.3  71  10.4                S        0.19           3176        1.21
Op to 210 dayi                                                6          1.0            37        0.2                     a        0.4             3         0.1
Hot. than 210 days                                           1l            2.9          791        4.3                     26        4.6         4,099        13.7
&uut2  toutv aZ  ustosets                                622         100.0       17,706      100.0                    369      100.0        26,0190      100.0
Subtotal b           tisg duag year                                                 149,612                                                    36. 68
Aocouots receivable In  estr.rr   (dayr)'                                               4.1
Cooseactll
up to 30 days                                              7,910         6           3            72.6                 7,673        6.          79,429       it.?
teo 60 days336                                                         3.6        5,33         7.2                    487.3 7,9                            3.3
Up to 80 days                                                137           1.3        2,49         2.9                    69         1.0         1 435        1.3
up to 120 day'                                                96           1.1        1,086        1.3                   11e         1.3         1,640        1.3
up a1   11s cv to     "r 10 d73                                          0.8        1,653        2.3                     36        0.4                
Up to 10 days                                                 47          0.5           193        1.6                    69        1.0          ,9           1.4
Up  o  150 days                                               4           0.3           493        0.7                    33        0.4          1,436        1.3
Hot  than 210 days                                           236i
Subtco.l .,_ .al                                          6,683         100.0        74,332      100.0                 5,96       100.0        110,794      100.0.
Al comwraial austausca                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.0300~2!2
Subcocal b ijig durttg year                                                        347,792
Accounts receivabLe in arreSrs (days)'                                                 13.6
Public
......                                                        2,843         67.0        38,561       33.1                   573          . 
up to 60 days                                                 92          2.3         8,113        7.0                    IL         I.             5          .
Op to 90 days                                 4~     ~    ~~~~       ~~~~3 1.1  1,015  0.9                 13        0.6         2.723         1.6
Up to 120 days                                                1           0.4           9lt        0.5                    16        0.8            1914       0.1
Up to 150 days                                                13           .             3          .                                .              53        0.0
Up to 150 days                               ~~~~13        0.3           40y       0.0                     I4        0.44                       .
Op to 180 days                               ~~~          ~~~~         ~~17  0.4  281  0.3                 37        1.93579                   3.4
apo to 110 day                                             1,9a82                    6731         3.                   1,256       63.3         69,380       38.0
ot..ta  210 days                                          9           to         673L         3.                                            3.4           00
SktbtotALJ public custcmrsr                                4.245        100.        116,341      100.0                 1.940      100.0        13,8         10.
9SUst                                                                                346 OV  sO  4&34
Subtotal b-W..4   during yst                                                      34  767
Ad4oogts reGeivable Lu arrears  Wdy)MA.65.
Total
Up to 30 days                                           144,398          59.1      335,864        53.7               137,S60       67.7       611,907        63.7
up to 60 days                                             5,318           3,4        46,761        7.3                 8:,364       3.5         44,434        4.6
up to 90 days                                             2,467            1.3       17,838        2.8                 1,610         1.2        10,635        3.1
Up to 120 days                                             1,933           1.2       10,210        1.6                 1.903         1.         13,1t6         1.4
up to 130 days                                             1,106          0.7        11,492        3.0                   324        0.3          4,037        0.4
up to 180 days                                               619          0.5          .360        L.0                 1,07         0.7         10.202         A.1
Up to 210 days                                               490          0.3         5,149        0.                    343        0.2           ,926        0.9
nots than 210 days                                         5.240           3.2      184,066       216.6                 .063         3.2       244,502        25.
Toa   utosses                                      161.993         100.0      636.730       100.0               156,566      100.0       960,063       100.
SuTotal albilln  durLng year348,1                                                                                                           7,207,7
Accounts ,ecstvble La attests CdAYSP'                                                  30.217,



CHILE
SECOID VALPARAISO %ATER SUPPLY AN SEUEUGE PR1JECT
Greater Valperaiso Netropolitan Area
Water Demand versus Production Capacity
........................................
Year                                  1987    19M       1919    1990    199t    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996           1997      1991      1999     2000
Poputation                          738 000 748 84  759 857 n71 027 781 513  792 141 802 914  813 834 824 902 835 791  846 823  858 001  869 327  880 802
Service Coverae, X                    94.5    94.9    45.3    95.7    96.1         6.5    4.9    47.7    48.5    48.6         Y8.7      48.8      Y8.9      9. o
Population Served                   697,410 710,657 724.143 737,872  751,034  764,416 778,024 795,116 812,52  824,090  835,814   847.705   859,764   871,994
go. of Cawections                   162 188  165 269  168 405  171 598  174 659  177 171  180,936  184 911  188 960  191 649  194 375  197 141  199 945  202 789
ConsuEttion, mliten .3/yr CN/yr)   5b.91   51.8a       5.86   5W.86    58.3   W5.8o   56.80   56.04   54.31    66.16    61.01    61.88    6a.76            61.66
Systm  1tfficleny X                   52.0    52.5    53.0    53.5    54.0    54.5    55.0    57.0    59.0    60.0             61.0      62.0     63.0      64.0
Deand,  llion ;miyr (NW/VV)           97.9    98.8    99.7   100.7   101.5   102.4   103.3   101.8   100.5   100.3    100.0              99.8      99.6     99.5
Demad-Avrage Day  ldP               268.235  270,727 273,262  275,840 278,161  280.520 282,918 278,988 275,433 274,697  274,038   273.453  272,941   272,498
Demand-Peak Day, mi/d               348,705 351,945  355,240  356,592 361,   364,676 367,793  362,684  358,063 357,106  456,249  355,489  354,823   354,248
Production, a3d                     320,000 320,080 320,000 320,000 320,000  328,640 367,520 367,520 354,560 397,760  397.760  397,768  397,760  397,760
Prnductlqn teficit (Surplus), Ml/d   28 705  31 945  35 240  38 592  41 609  36 036         23   (4,836)  3,503  (40 654) (41 511) (42 271) (42 937) (43 512)
Production Deficit (Surplus), NCItJr   l.5     11.7     12.9    14.1    15.2    13.2        0.1    (1.8)    1.3   (14.8)   (15.2)   (15.4)   (15.7)   (15.9)
Rtapired Pred tion Incmes                9X      10t      112      122      13X     11t       0t      -1X       1X   * -lX     -102      -112      -112     -112
.....................       .       ................... ........................................................................................................................ .............. ......................... .............. ........ ... ....__.._
Capacity of Ptohictlon Sorces:
Existing Sarces. a3J/                   3.7     3.7      3.7      3.7      3.7    3.70    3.55    3.55    3.25    3.75         3.75      3.75      3.75     3.75
Las Vegas                         2.65     2.65     2.65     2.65     2.65    2.65    2.65      2.65     2.65     2.65     2.65      2.65      2.65     2.65
Conce  (1)                         0.65    0.65     0.6S    0.6S    O.6S    0.6s    0.50    0.50    0.00    0.50           8.50      0.50      0.50     0.50
Pteseles                          0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40        0.40    0.40    0.40    0.40    0.60    0.60         0.60      0.60      0.60     0.60
idditioma Sorces, :US                                                              0.10    0.70    0.70      O.8S    0.85      0.85      0.85      0.85     0.85
Calera wells                                '                                  0.10    0.10    0.10      0.10    0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10     0.10
Limchue wels                                                                           0.10    0.10    0.10    0.10        0.10      0.10      0.10      0.10
Poza Alul reevoir                                                                                        0.15    0.15      0.15      0.15      O.1S     0.15
Neu canco  plant                                                                        .                0.50    0.50      0.50      0.50      0.50     0.50
Total Existing nd mewm  es             3.70    3.70    3.70    3.70    3.70    3,80    4.25         4.25     4.10    4.60      4.60      4.60      4.60     4.60
Additiall Proctiaon, sl/d                                                         8,640  47,520  47,520  34,560  7t7,-    77,760    17,760   17,760   17,760
...... ............... ....... ..................... ........................................ ;0.................................. ...................    ......................  
(1) Inetuies rehabilitaticn of existino trtmnt  plant
saic Data:
...........                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prolectiorns
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........... ....Ps.
Tear                       .    198
Population                      735 000                                        Popultation Growth Rate (fIa)         1.471  (19571990)
Initiat cwarege                 94.7X                                                                                1.36X   (191-1995)
Population enity                 4.3 fab/tconection                                                                  1.32S  (1996-2000)
(S.3 Icaib/rsidentitl conecticn)
tint Cenmption                   200 t/d per person                            Loverge Increare (per year)           0.40    ('1990-1993)
26 *3/mnth per coimectlon                                                           O.802  (1994-1995)
utemated-for Voter               4 4                             *                                                   0.10K  (1996-2000)
System Efficilncy               522
Present Proction Cpacity        320,000 6i/d                                   Syefex Elfllnlemy  Increase           0.50    (1987-1993)
3.7 3/s                                          (per year)                         2.002  (1994-1995)
Peak Day CoefficIent             1,30                                                                                1.002  (1996-2000)



Demand versus Production
m3/day
500
490
480
470
460
450-
\.     440 -
E     430
c,;. 420 -
lL a    9                         
Z;,    410 
*,,s   400
.    390                               _
38& 
o  370 
350
340
330
320 -,   -a      a     a
310
300 -      , .                               
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Years
0   Production                  +   'Ieak Daily Demand



Unaccounted-for Water
60-
5a
56 -
54 -
52 -
50 
48
*       42-t6
:..     44 -
42-
*    ~40-
38-
36-
34 -
32 -
30-
1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000
Years



- so -
Annex 12
Paae l of-4
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Greater Valparaiso Sewerage System
Comparison of Alternatives
Introduction
The main problem related to the discharge of untreated sewage from the Greater
ValparaLso Metropolitan Area inuto the Pacific Ocean is the contamination of
public beaches, which represent an important national, as well as international,
tourist resource.
The main objective of the alternatives studied for the treatment and di3posal of
sewage generated in the Greater Valparaiso Metropolitan Area is to reduce the
bacterial and organic contamination of public beaches. The alternatives studied
consist essentially of combinations of various degrees of sewage treatment and
ocean discharge sites for the five urban areas incorporated in the project
limits, as detailed below.
Urban Area                    Main Geooraihic Location
Valparaiso                          Southern Zone
Vihia del Mar                       Central Zone
Quilpu6                             Central gone
Villa Alemana                       Central Zone
Refiaca                             Central Zone
Conc6n                              Northern Zor,e
The design flows and population equivalents taken into account for the comparison
of various alternatives were as follows:
Design Horizon - Year 2020
Zone                      AVR, flow  Max. Flow        PonuLation nouzivalent
(mS/u)      (m3/s)              (inhab)
Valparaiso                    0.97        1.23               363,311.
Vifia del Mar                 2.27        3.14               569,007
Reftaca-Conc6n                0.62        0.93               208,220
Quilpu6-V. Alemana            1.07        1.23               303,353
----------------------------  ------------- ------------ --------_--
Total                         4.93        6.53              1,443,891



- 51 -
Two basic treatment and disposal concepts were analyzed and studied:
a. Disposal into the ocean, after some type of wastewater treatment
ranging from "preliminary" to "tertiary"; and
b. Reuse in acriculture, after suitable treatment.
Preliminary analyses and evaluation have indicated that the reuse concept,
although attractive, is not feasible in this case because of the need to pump the
water from below sea level to higher elevations where the potential agricultural
lands are located, and the availability of cheaper irrigation water sources such
as the Aconcagua River or sewage from higher-lying urban areas.
Alternatives Studied
Three main disposal schemes and at least three alternative subschemes for each
scheme have been studied, which differ mainly with respect to the solution for
the disposal of sewage from the urban areas located in the Central Zone of the
Greater Valparaiso Metropolitan Area: Vifia-Reftaca and Quilpu6-Villa Alemana. In
all alternatives, the sewage from Valparalso is discharged through the existing
Bustamante Tunnel, and that from Conc6n through a local sea outfall.
Alternatively, the possibility of treatment and disposal of the Conc6n sewage by
means of a stabilization pond was also studied.
Al
1.    Southern-Central Scheme (Vina-Refiaca sewage to a sea outfall in Vina)
This scheme is based on the idea that sewage is discharged, to the extent
possible, at a site located in the zone where it is produced. 'The sewage from
Valparaiso is discharged into the ocean through the existing Bustamante Tunnel,
and that from Vifia and Refiaca through a sea outfall in Vifia, located between
Muelle Vergara and Las Salinas beach.  The sewage from Conc6n is discharged
through a small local outfall. With respect to the sewage from Quilpu& and Villa
Alemana, which are not located along the seashore, several alternatives were
studied:
Alg,rnative lA:   The raw sewage from Quilpu6 and Villa Alemana is
discharged through the sea outfall in Vifha.
Alternative 18: Same as 1A, but the sewage from Quilpu6 and Villa Alemana
is treated at a site located in Quilpu6, and is then discharged through.
the sea outfall in ViRa, thus reducing the load on this outfall.
AlternativeSlC: The sewage from QuilpuG and Villa Alemana Ls discharged
through the Bustamante Tunnel in Valparaiso, after being conveyed there
either through the ViLa-Valparalso coastal collector or through a new
tunnel (Recreo).



- 52 -
AnnqZ _U
-acae 3 ofi
2.    Southern Scheme eViha-Refaca sewage to Bustamante Tunnel)
This scheme is based oa the idea that the existing Bustamante Tunnel would be
utilized to the maximuLl possible extent.  The sewage from Valparaiso, Viffa,
Refiaca, Quilpu6, and Villa Alemana is discharged through the Bustamante Tunnel,
whereas that from Conc6n is either treated in stabilization ponds or discharged
through a small local sea outfall.
Alternative 2A: The sewage from Refiaca, Vifia, Quilpu6 and Villa Alemana
is conveyed to the Bustamante Tunnel by means of a large coastal
collector, whereas the sewage from Conc6n is treated and disposed of by
means of a stabilization pond.
Alternative 2B:  Same as 2A, but the sewage from Reflaca, Vifia, Quilpu6 and
Villa Alemana is conveyed to the Bustamante Tunnel by means of a new
tunnel (Recreo).
Alternative-2C: Same as 2B, but the sewage from Quilpue and Villa Alemana
is treated at a site located near QuilpuO, and is then conveyed through a
new tunnel (Recreo) to Valparaiso where it is discharged to the sea
through the Bustamante Tunnel, thus reducing the organic load at the
tunnel outlet.
Alternative 2_  (Proposedl:  Same as 2A, but the sewage from Oonc6n is
discharged to the sea via a small local outfall.
3.    Southern-Northern Scheme (Vifia-Reflaca sewage to Conc6n outfall)
The sewage from Vifia, Refhaca, Quilpu6, Villa Alemana, and Conc6n is discharged
to the north, through a sea outfall located in Conc6n, whereas the sew.ge from
Valparalso is discharged through the Bustamante Tunnel.
Alternative 3A: The raw sewage from Vifia, Reftaca, Quilpu6, Villa Alemana,
and Conc6n is discharged through a sea outfall in Conc6n.
Alternative 3B: Same as 3A, but the sewage from Quilpu6 and Villa Alemana
is treated at a site near Quilpu6 and then discharged through the sea
outfall in Conc6n, thus reducing the organic load on the outfall.
AlternatLve 3Cs  Only the sewage from Reftaca is conveyed to the north and
discharged together with the sewage from Conc6n via a sea outfall in
Conc6n, whereas the sewage from Vihta, Quilpu6 and Villa Alemana is
conveyed to Valparalso and is discharged through the Bustamante Tunnel
together with the sewage from Valparalso.



- 53 -
Annex 12 
pAge 4-gf 4
Dealion Princi2les for Sewage Discharce-into :the- Sea
The discharge of either raw or partially treated sewage into the sea is based on
the dispersion and dilution effects, which depend on a variety of factors such
as: sewage amount and concentration, distance from shore and public beaches,
depth and morphology of sea bottom, marine currents, etc. Where conditions are
suitable, the sewage discharge into the sea may be considered a special type of
treatment ("marine treatment"), which, in combination with some pre-treatment,
can assure an acceptable solution from an environmental polnt of view.
In all the alternatives studied, the discharge to the sea through the Bustamante
Tunnel remains the same as it is at present, i.e., superficial, since the
morphology of the sea bottom and the dynamics of the marine currents (as
determined by an oceanographic study) are considered favorable for rapid
dispersion, dilution, and degradation of organic substances.
As for the sea outfalls included in some alternatives, they ware deslgned in
accordance with engineering practice, taking into account that the maximum ocean
depth at which a pipe can be laid is 75 m.
Comwarison of Alternatives
An economic comparison of the various alternatives studied was carried out to
determine the least-cost solution. The comparison was based on the values of AIC
(Average Incremental Cost), which was calculated as the ratio between the present
value of the cost flow and the present value of the number of inhabitants served.
Since the number of inhabitants served is virtually the same in all the
alternatives, the comparison is essentially between total costs.
The cost flow includes: Lnvestments as well as operation and maintenance costs.
The investment includes: initial structures and equipment, future expansions
needed, and renovations.   The maLn items included are: collectors, pumping
stations, treatment plants, and sea outfalls. The operation and maintenance
costs include: materials, personnel, and energy.
In general, the alternatives that include treatment are much more expensive than
the others, since the cost of treatment is not offset by savings in the diameter
or length of the collectors or sea outfalls.
The most economic alternative recommended Ls 2 P, which consists oft'
(a)   A major collectLon system  (large pipes and pumping statLons)
conveying the sewage from Vifta, Reftaca, Quilpu&, Villa Alemana,  and
Valparaiso to the existing Bustamanto Tunnel and a preliminary treatment
plant prLor to discharging the effluent to the sea; and
(b)   A small collection system, pumping station, and local sea outfall
for the sewage of Conc5n.



- 54 -
Annex 13
Page I of 2
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Detailed Proiect Description
The proposed project, which would be carried out during a 6.5-year period
between mid-1991 and end of 1997, includes four main components: two (sewerage
and water supply) related specifically to the Greater Valparaiso Area, and two
(institutional improvements and consulting services) related to the Fifth Region
and ESVAL in general. The following is a description of the items included ind
the project.
A.    SEWERAGE  AND  POLLUTION CONTROL  -  472  of project  cost,
consisting of:
1.    Secondarv sewage collectors of a diameter smaller than
400 mm and a total length of about 10 km. in the Greater
Valparaiso Area and in the city of Limache;
2.    Main sewage collectors in the Greater Valparaiso Area,
including the following gravity collectors: Quilpu6-Vifta
del Mar, Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso, Reflaca-Vifia del Mar,
Playa Ancha, Alvarez, Conc6n, and Casino, of a diameter
varying between 400 and 2000 mm and a total length of
about 50 km, plus three rectangular sections 2xl.2m, 2x
1.5m, and 2.Ix1.5m, with a total length of about 6km;
3.    Sewage pumping stations in the Greater Valparaiso Area:
Vifia del Mar, Valparaiso, Conc6n, and Higuerillas
pumping stations, including the respective short-section
pressure pipes of a diameter varying between 300 mm
(Conc6n) and 1800 mm. (Vifta and Valparaiso) and a total
length of 1700 m.
4.    Sewage treatment and disposal facilities consisting of
treatment facilities at two sites in the Greater
Valparaiso  Area:  Bustamante  (near  the  existing
Bustamante tunnel in Valparaiso) and Higuer#llas (in
Conc6n), and a 560mm, 800m long sea outfall in Conc6n.
The treatment facilities at each of the two sites
consist of primary (mechanical) treatment processes
including: bar screens, grit and grease removal units.



- 55 
Annex 13
Paae 2 of 2
B.    WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES - 36% of project cost, consisting of:
1.    Production works including: Calera and Limache wells and
Poza Azul Reservoir;
2.    Transmission main from Los Aromos reservoir to Conc6n
treatment plant, of a diameter varying between 1200 and
800mm and a total length of about llkm;
3.    Water treatment facilities including: the rehabilitation
of the existing Conc6n plant, a new Conc6n plant, and
the improvement of the Pefuelas plant;
4.    Distribution lipes and storage tanks for the expansion
of existing systems and the construction of new systems
in areas presently supplied directly from the Las Vegas
aqueduct in Vitfa del Mar and in Quilpu6-Villa Alemana,
as well as for the improvement of existing systems in
Vifta del Mar, Valparaiso and Quilpu6-Villa Alemana. The
distribution pipes vary in diameter from 75mm to 1000mm
(3-inch to 40-inch) and have a total length of about
13km.   There are 15 storage tanks included in the
project with a volume varying between 500 and 5,000m3
each and an aggregate volume of about 35,000m3L
C.    INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS - 9% of project cost, consisting
of:  O&M equipment,  office equipment,  consumers'  survey,
technical cooperation and training in various topics
(including identification and reduction of water losses),
preparation of a development  and training plan for the
company; and
D.    CONSULTING  SERVICES  -  8Z  of  project  cost,  including:
engineering and supervision of the water supply and sewerage
facilities included in the project, monitoring of the marine
sewage disposal system before and after project completion,
feasibility studies and designs of water supply and sewerage
systems in the northern and the southern coast of the Fifth
Region.



CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO hATER AND SEWERAE PROJECT
Project Cost Estimte
Z of                             2
C.mont/Subc_nponat                             Total   Total         Local   Foreign  foreign   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995. 1996   1997
.... .....___._....___..____..____........... .__.............................................................
A. SEEAE  AND POLLUTION CONTROL
1. Secradery Collectors
1.1 Grn Valperslso                         453                                                                   453
1.2 Liache                                 363                                                                          363
Subtotat Secandry tuttectors (1)        816        12         522        294       362                        453   363
2. Mafn Sewage Collectors
2.1 ullpue-Vina del Moar                 1                                                1364
2.2 Vine del Har-Valparaiso               9467                                             1231   4118  4118
2.3 Renac-Vfne del Mar                    2203                                                           2203
2.4 Play. Ancha                            917                                                                          917
2.5 Alvarez                                435                                                                   435
2.6 Concon                                 851                                                                          349   502
2.7 Casino                                 202                                                     202
Stb-total Main Colleetos (2)    15440        19X       10113       5327       352 2595   4320  6321    435   1266   502
3. Sewage Puping Stations
3.1 Vins del Mar                          5298                                              954   1483   2861
3.2 Valper,iso                            5515                                              993   1434  3089
;.3 poncon                                  70                                                                         . 70
S*i-total Puping Stations (3)    10883        14         4407       6475       602  1946  2917  5949             7T
4. Sewage Teeatent and Disposal                                                                                                  11
,1 Sustamente treatment works             372                                                                                 141S   230
4.2 ghIguerillas plant^                   4056                                                                          690   1704   1663
4.2 Limache treatment plant               2955                                                                  1153  1803
Sik-total Sewage Treatment (4)   10734        13X        3220       7514       702                       1153  2492  3118  3971
TOTAl SEWERAGE (A)   3?872        47X      1263       19609       52X  4541   7238  12270  2041   4191   3620  3971
...................... ....................................................  0..............,............._.....
B. VATER StPPLY - SGAN VALFPAISO
1. Prock tion
1.1 Calera welts                           253                                              253
1.2 Limche Vett1                           652                                                     652
1.3 Poza Azul Reservoir                    602                                                                   602
1.4 Los Aromaos Intake Vorks              1388                                                                   583   805
Sib-total Proic tion (1)    .289         4X        1390       1505       522  253   652            1185   805
2. Tramission
2.1 Los Aramos-Concon Iain                4396                                                            48    1978  1934
Sub-total Tranmission (2)    4396          5X        2593       1802       41X                 484   1978   1934
3. Treatmet
3.1 NRw Concon Ptant                      2642                                             1162   1479
3.2 Rehabilitation of Old Concon Plant   2105                                                                    969   1137
3.3 Improvement of Pemetas Plant           263                                                                   263
Sub-total Water Treatent (3)    5010          6X        2255       2756       552  1162   1479          1232   1137
4. Storage and Distribution
4.1 Expion of Existing Syste
4.1.1 Vine del Mtar        ,          2144                                              m     1372
4.1.2  luiLpue-Villa Atlemna           972                                                                   972
Sib-total Expansion (4.1)            3115        4X         1340       1776       57X   7     1372           972
4.2 New System"              .
4.2.1 Vine det Mar                                                                                          1597
4.2.2 Quilpue-ViLla Alemmn                                                                                   4544
Sub-total New Systems (4.2)           2050        3X          82       1169       57X                       2050



4.3 twrovment of Existlng Systems
4.3.1 Vina del Mar                    4968                                                                     894  3279    795
4.3.2 Valparalbo                      3360                                                               67    302    773  2218
4.3.3 Quilpue-ViIs Ameeam             2874                                                                    2127   747
Sub-total lmprovement (4.3)          11203        14X        4817       6386       57X                   67   3324   4799  3013
Sub-totat Distribution/Storage (4)   16369         20X        7038       9330       57X   772   1372      67   6346   4799  3013
TOTAL WATER SUPPLY (C)   28669        362        13276      15393       54X  2187   3503    551  10741   8675   3013
C. INSTITUTIN.L. IIPROVEMENTS
1. Preparation of Development Plan            53                     26         26       50X    26                                  26
2. Technneal Cooperation and Training        633                    253        380       60X            50    105    155    155    105     63
3. Cornsuers Survey                          320                    320          0         02  320
4. 0 & i EquIpmnt                           4333                   1437       2897       702   173    217    260    997    780   953    953
S. Office Equipment                          1561                   517       1043       70X   109    109    125    297   297    297   328
TOTAL INSTITUTIONAL IMPOVENENTS CC)    6899          9X         2553       4346       632   628    376    490   1448   1232   1381   134
............................... .................................................................... ^ .,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ,,................................................................................. , ,,..  
D. CONSULTING SERVICES                                                                                            0
1. Mnitoring of Marine Sewage Oisposal       2112                   1056       1056       502  210    315    31S    315    310   310   337
2. 9ater Suply Designs-Southern Coast          265                   185         79       30X   265
3. Mater Suppty Designs-Northern Coast         265                   t85         79       30X                                       160    105
4. Studies/Oesigns-Seterage South Coast       530                    371        159       30X                         100   210    220
5. Studies/Designs-Sewerage North Coast       530                    371        159       30X                                100   210    220
6. Engineering and Supervision               2872                   2010        862       302  290    464    553    552    555    286   171
TOTAL CONSULTING SERVICES (D)    6574         82        4179        2395       362   765    779    868    967   1175   t186   833
TOTAL BASE COST (Deceber 1990)                 80014       1002       38271      41743       522  8122  11896   14179  15196  15273   9200   6149
Physical Contingencies (102)                    8001                   3827       4174       522  812   1190   1418   1520   1527   920   615
Total Base Cost plus Centingencies             88016                  42098      45918       522 8934  13085  15597  16716  16800  10120  6764
Price ConaingenCies-Local                                             19413                        348   1511   2787   3900  4o08  3425   2634
Price contfngencies-Foreign                                                       4086             205    379    417    594   952   808    731
Price Contingencies-ortag                      23499                  19413       4086       172  553   1890   3205   U94   5761  4233   3365
...... ..E....--... ................................. ............... .15.1 ------...0.0.. -------.5.Z ... ..8.6..1.9......1.8..0, _---..1.0.9. -- ... ,. ---_. __ _ * .__ _2-9-
TOTAL PROJECT COST                            t111515                 61511      50004       45X  9486  14975  18802  21209  22561  14353  10129
iMort Duties (and Consuttant Taxes)             8391                   8391                        714   1127   1415   1596   1698   1080   762
TOTAL PROJECT COST with lmport Duties         119906                  69902      50004       422 10200  16102  20216  22805  242S8  15433  10891
Value Added Tax (VAT)                          21583                  21583                       1836   2898   3639   4105   4366   2778   1960
TOTAL COST with lmport Dutiew  and VAT        141489                  91485      50004       352 12036  19001  23855  26910  28625  18211  12851
................ ................................. ......... .................. _0.. ............ ..................... ... .... ..................... ......................... _....... .. ..............__..
Yearlty Cost (2)                                  1002                                               9X    132    172    19X    202    132    9X
Notes:
* Nigueritias plant Includess treatment plant pung station and sea outfall.
" New systems for areas previously supplied d recty frm moin Las Vegas transmission line.
dI



- 58 
SECOND VALPXRAISOWATER SUPLY AND SEWERWA RRQj
Proiect Imolamentation Schedu-le
Coponent                                          1991 M1 1992  1  19931  1941  1995 1  1961  19971
A. SEWERAGE AND POLLUTION CONTROL                    I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I
1. Secondary Cottectors
1.1 Gran Valparalso                                                       .. . I  I- .      ..
1.2 Limache                                         .           I        I         1                1        I
2. Main Cotlectors                                         I        I       I         I        I       I
2.1 Cuitpue-Vina del Mar                       ...  - .
2.2 Vine det har-Vatparufso                    ......  ...-...-
2.3 Renaca-Vina del Nar                                          . . ... ..
2.4 Playa Ancha                                                                   I    I....... 
2.S Alvarez                                   I          -                ......  I        I 
2.6 Concon                                                                         .    . ...-------
2.7 Casino                                              . ... .
3. Pwping Stations                                I        I        I        I        I        I        I        I
3.1 Vina del Mar                               .. .....                     I..-------I             I        |
3.2 Valparaiso                                .-----   .     ...  ..                                I ....-
3.3 Concon                                     I       I        i-------
4. Sewage Treatment
4.1 Bustamante treatment works                                                               ...... . -----
4.2 Higueritlas plant*                                                              . . . .----.---I . ....
4.3 Limache treatment plant                                                -------. ..               
8. WATER SUPPLY * Gran Valparaiso                    I        I        I        I        |        |        |
1. Productlon
1.1 Calera weats                              .-------
1.2 Limache Weals                                       . ... . .
1.3 Poza Azul Reservoir                                                   . . . ....
1.4 Los Aromas tntake works                                                .    ....  -.----
2. Transmission                                   I        I        I       I         I        I       I         I
2.1 Los Aromos-Concon Maln                                       . .  ...  - --------------
3. Water Treatment                                I        I        I        I        I        I
3.1 New Concon PLant                           ..   I............
3.2 Rehabilitation of Old Concon                                           . .  .. ------- 
3.3 Improvement of PenueLas                   I        I        I            .-------
4. Distribution/storage
4.1 Expansfon of 3xisting Systems               .. ............           .......
4.2 New Systems                                |       |        I            .-------
4.3 Improvement of Existing Systems                              --.----- .    ....... . -------------
C. INSTITUTIONAL IMPROVEMENTS                        |        I        I        I        I        t
1. Preparation of Devetopment Plan                ...                ...........                               I
2. Technical Cooperation and Training                    I.. ... -       ... .. ... -------....I....-------
3. Consumers Survey                               ........II                         |                          I
4. 0 & M  Equipment                              .--.-----.-------.. ....-------  .......
5. Office Equfipent                             I.I.-...I..-.I
I       I        i        I        I        I        I        I
0. CONSULTING SERVICES
1. Monitorlng of Marine Sewage Disposal   -.            ..... I-------.   . .............- -.   .    ..... .......
2. Water Supply Designs-Southern Coast                    .         I        I        I        I        I        I
3. Water Suppty Designs-Northern Coast                                                                   . I  I    I .I...
4. Studles/Oesigns-Sewerage South Coast                                       ........I.      I..     ..
5. Studies/Oesigns-Sewerage North Coast                                                . . ..    .... ..........-
1) Bars show imptementatfon periods from contract signing to completion.
2) The bidding process would start between 3 ard 12 months prior to contract signing,



SECOND VALPARISO HATER SUPPLY N  SEVERASE PROJECT
IIflNITOhINS INDICATORS
tsr 
1997    199    1999   1990    1991    1992    19S3    1994    1995    196    199           IM      19       2000
Atteal                                   Present Forecast
OPERTIOI                                                                               X
Mater produced 113 sillion)                              137.5   141.5   139.9   136.7   139.6   141.5   142.1   139.1   130.4   141.3   144.4   147.5   150.6   154.0
Hater sold (113 si1l1o,)                                  75.9    79.5    82.2    90.9    93.1    94.6    15.5    95.6    86.9    99.7    92.6    55.6    99.6   101.9
Bewerage sold (113 eillion)                               61.9    64.5    66.6    65.5    67.3    68.9    70.1    70.6    70.6    73.2    76.0    78.3 81.8    84.9
Unaccounted for water (1)                                 44.9    43.9    41.2    40.    40.5    40.2    39.9    38.5    37.2    36.5    35.9    35.2    34.5    33.9
Vater sold per connection (13 oer month)                 25.9    26.3    26.2    24.9    24.9    24.7    24.3    23.6    23.4    23.5    13.1
Hater connections year end (1000)                        248.5   255.9   266.4   274.3   291.9   289.7   297.5   305.5   313.5   321.7   33.1   &          1  471    355.
Service coerage water, ()                                 92.1    92.7    95.3    95.7    95.9    9LI    96.4    96.6    96.9    97.4    99.0    98.6    99.3    99.9
Sewrage connections year end (10001                      194.3   199.6   209.3   215.5   222.3   230.1   238.3   246.9   254.5   262.5   270.8   279.3   28.0   291.1I
Service coverage, sewerage, (d1                           78.3    7.6    81.5    82.2    92.8    93.3    83.9    84.5    85.1    86.0    96.9    87.9    88.7    99.1
letered water connKctionsliater connections (1)           9S.3    W.3    99.3   S9.3    9.3    99.3    99.3    99.3    99.3   S9.3    99.3    99.3    99.3    99.3
Working meterslaeters  )                                  99S.    99.      99. I 9.1    99.1    99.I    99.1       99.1      9.I    S.I    99.1    99.1        .I    99.1
Emlloyeessleoo water connections                           3.6     3.5     3.4      3.4     3.4     3.4      3.4     3.4     3.4      3.4     3.4     3.4      3.4     3.4
Consumrs with direct income subsidy (1n n.e.    n.a.    n.e.    A.A.                         15      20       23      23      23       23      23      23       23      23
FINANCIAL
Average Investmnt I connection  (constant 1990 US-S)     637.5   610.    636.3   647.4   676.5   699.0   731.7   754.4   791.1   B29.7   961.7   992.1   996.4   891.9
Average Revenuel l3 sild (constant end 1990 US-Centsl     13.0    14.1    17.7    24.1    25.5    29.3    33.6    40.2    44.9    45.0    45.0    45.1    45.1    45.2
aNagng2  ater RatelN3 sold (constant end 1990 US-Cents)'.  11.0    11.8    14.9    19.9    20.7    23.2    25,9    29.1    31.1    31.2    31.2    31.2    31.3    31.3
Average Sewerage Ratefl3 sold (constant end 199 US-Cents)  1.9     2.3     2.9      4.2     4.8     6.1      7.9    11.0    13.8    13.8    13.9      3.      13.9    13.9
Average Cast/fl3 sold (constant end 1990 US-Cents)  -     19.5    20.4  -19.1      24.3  -24.5-   26.2    27.7    30.0    32.7    33.9    34.3    35.2    36.0    36.7
Average Personnel Costla3 sold (constant end 1990 US-Cents)    4.6  5.1    5.3      B.3     7.0     7.3      7.6     7.9     9.2      8.2     J.3     8.4      9.4     9.5
Working Ratio                                             96.6    99.1    69.2     5.6    63.9    59.9    55.9    51.5    51.1    52.6    53.1    54.6    56.1    57.5
Operating Ratio                                          131.4   129.1    96.4   9B.5    96.6    81.3    75.9    69.5    69.4    70.6    71.8    73.7    75.4    76.9
btlOeb  tEquity)  7                                        0.7     2.7     5.1      d.1     6.0     9.3    13.2    16.5    18.9    19.2    16.9    16.9    16.6    16.6
Debt Serice Corage (tims)                                  6.8     3.4     7.1    ;'.7      5.4     7.3      6.9     6.9     6.1      2.7     2.5     2.0      2.0     2.0
Contribution to nvestmn . (n                              55.9   121.9)   55.5   141.4    47.1    53.8    52.8    61.0    62.9    68.7    81.5    52.6    57.4    52.6
Collection Ratio (day1s
Hater and Sewaerae                      IO                                65  '1 82 U             61       61      61      60        0       0      60               60
Hydrats Naintenance                                                                       75       60      60      60      60       60      60      60       60      60
Rates of Return (I)
On aveage net assets in operation                      12.5)   12.7)    0.5      1.5     2.0      3.1     4.3     6.1      6.7     6.0     5.6     5.2      4.9     4.7
On equity                                              (3.4)   (3.4)   10.5)    2.3      1.9      2.2     3.1     5.3     5.7      5.2     5.3     4.7      4.5     4.2
Dividelsiyield                                         n.a.    n.a.    n.a.      0.0     I.3     0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0     0.0     1.5     3.7      3.8     3.7



- 60 -
SECOND VALAASO WEMIR SIMPLY An  SEWERE  PROECT
Limits on-TvOes of Procurement And Prior Review Threph2ld
(USS 1,000)
Prior
Review      Contract       Aggregate    Type of
Description   Llmlt        Kalue          Limit         Pr2umept
CIVIL         All           > 3,000          -----          ICB
WORKS$
First two     200 to 3,000    -----           LCB
contracts
each year
None          c 200            4,000          Price quotations
from at least three
local bidders
GOODS:      All             > 250            -----          ICe
First two       50 to 250        -----         LCB
contracts
each year
None            c 50             4,000         Price    quotations
from at least three
local bidders



- 61 -
flSQEVALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
AlIocation gf Loan Proceeds
The proposed diabursement categories, the allocation of loan funds,
and the disbuzaement percentages are as follows:
Amount of
Loan         % Expenditures
Cateaorv                              fUSS millioni    to be Financed
1. Civil Works                     27.0                45%
2. Equipment & Materials            18.0                45% of local
expenditures and
65% of foreign
expenditures
3. Consultants, training, supervision
of works, technical assistance    5.0                50%
TOTAL           50.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- 62 -
SECOND- VALARISO WATER SUPPLY MND SEWERAG-E PLO-JEC
Loan Disbursemvent Schedule
Bank Fiscal Year    Quarterly Disbursement  CumulatLve Diabursement
and Quarter Ending         (US$ million)      (US$ million) % of Total
September 30, 1991               2.1                2.1          4.3%
December 31, 1991                2.1                4.3          8.5%
March 30, 1992                   1.7                5.9         11.9%
June 30, 1992                    1.7                7.6         15.2%
FY 1993
September 30, 1992               1.7                9.3         18.6%
December 31, 1992                1.7               11.0         21.9%
March 30, 1993                   2.1               13.1         26.2%
June 30, 1993                    2.1               15.2         30.4%
FY 1994
September 30, 1993               2.1               17.3         34.6%
December 31, 1993                2.1               19.4         38.8%
March 30, 1994                   2.4               21.8         43.6%
June 30, 1994                    2.4               24.2         48.3%
FY 1995
September 30, 1994               2.4               26.5         53.1%
December 31, 1994                2.4               28.9         57.8%
March 30, 1995                   2.5               31.4         62.9%
June 30, 1995                    2.5               34.0         67.9%
FY 1996
September 30, 1995               2.5               36.5         73.0%
December 31, 1995                2.5               39.0         78.1%
March 30, 1996                   1.6               40.6         81.3%
June 30, 1996                    1.6               42.2         84.5%
FY 1997
September 30, 1996               1.6               43.9         87.7%
December 31, 1996                1.6               45.5         90.9%
March 30, 1997                   1.1               46.6         93.2%
June 30, 1997                    1.1               47.7         95.4%
FY 1998
September 30, 1997               0.7               48.4         96.8%
December 31, 1997                0.7               49.1         98.2%
March 30, 1998                   0.5               49.6         99.2%
June 30, 1998                    0.4               50.0        100.0%



EOMD VA12911198 31A1  UIPVt  AN  MEW319  PROECT
.193     11111    (99        1910.    119)       11        1193     1994      Ills      1991      19971    1113       19119    20
flperatIqOnaues    .001kw                            .   ~-    4                                                                                         :1     2-!       3ff!      2~t
Icier lauwes                  .                 3~~~~~~~~~~.0  3.3  11o1     14.2    1ILl        17.2      19.4     21.9      23.7      24.5     25.3      26.2      27.0      27.9
Sna    Revean                                               I.1       1.4       1.9      2.4       2.8       3.1       4.8      6.8       8.6       8.9       9.2       9.6      10.0      10.3
Dpi,                                               (3~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~.0)    (3.4  (3.8)  (5.3)    14.6)    14.91    15.2)    (5.4)    (5.6)    45.9)    (6.))    (6.4)    (6.7)    17.0)
ham(calm                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~(0.1)    10.6)    10.6)    40.51    10.5)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0,5)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.31    10.5)
Povar,                                          (~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1.21    (1.1)    11.61    11.71    (2.01    12.0)    (2.0)    12.21    12.9)    I3.0  (3.01    13.1)    13.21    43.3)
(1.71    10.9)   *0.91 -*  10.6)    (0.6)    (0.2)    (0.)    (0,1)    (0,7)    (0,9)    (0.8)    (0.8)    (0.9)    (0.8)
Pli4aIe coatratlars                                             (0,51    (116)    41.4)    (1.8)    I1.!1    11.9)    42.0)    12.0)    (2.11    (2.1)    M2.2              (2.3)    (2.31    12.4)
PrawlsaI  Recelvabiss                                           (0.11    (03)    (0.5)    (0.5)    (0.91    ((.0)    (1.2)    (1.0)    11.6)    (1.1)    (1.41    (1.4)    (1.5)    11.5)
UAIlasstriI.                                                    (I I)  1 112)        I.11    13.1)    11.4)    (1.9)    12.4)    (2.9)    13.4)    14.1)    (4.1)    I5.M             16.2)     11.0)
hpreciali.a                                                     (4.4)    (4.2)      (LI)1    (4,21    (4.3)    (4.6)    (5.0)    (5.3)    45,1)    41.11    (6.6)           (7.0)    .1. 11.3)(.)
Totad  Opertall   Eiapau                                       112.81   (13.8)   (13.91   (15.7)   ((6.21   (117.7    ((8,9)   (20.5)   422.6)   (24.1)   125.4)   (27.01   ('2.5)   (M.0
fjrliglou"t                                                    (3.1)    (7,0)     0.5  .- -.9          2.5       4.3       6.0      9.0      10.5      10.1      10.0      .9.6      1.        9.:
FluKiact  Reugus                                                 0.3       0.)      0.0       0.7       0.6      40.0)    (0.1)    (0.0)       0.2       0.4       0.3       (.2       1.2      (.1                                            G
Eilmsalal [somasu                                               (0.1)    (0.1)    (0.4)    40.4)    (0.5)    40.8)    (1.2)    (1.1)    (2.2)    (2.4)    (2.41             12.3)    (2.3)    (2.4)
oa-ooerat(o  (sato    Inet)                                     (0.21    40.3)    (0.))       0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3
tiled  of Pric (Cha LU     as baamn"  am  Epiti                (22.5)   (111.2)   (20.9)   429.5)   ((9.5)   (19.9)   (21.4)   (22.81   (24.3)   (25.9)   (26.9)   (28.2)   128.4)   (28.1)
lilac) of Pritt Chuag"  am  assets mi l iaItin                 21.1      11.0     20.3      29.0      (8.0      19.2     20.6      22.5      24.6      26,8     21.9      28.3      29.6      28.1
~seealglutes.                                                1       0.6)    (0,5)    (41.0)  0.9   (0.2      41.3)    (1.9)    ((.8)      11.4)1   (0.9)    (0.3)      (0.8)     40.7)    (1.0)
ltacos 1,1w. Tainu                                                  13.7)    (3.5)    (0.5)       2.3       2.3       2.9       4.1     '7.2       9 I       9.2       V.7       8.8      8.6       8.1
tacoe  us, Wa,                                                       03)    (0.3)       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0      (0.8)    (1.1)    (1.01)   .0)          11.0)    (1.)
lit lame  altar Tn.m                                                (4.0)    (3.9)    (0,5)       2.9       2.3       2.8       4.4       7.2      9,3       LI1       8.6      7.6       7.6       1.1
Cabh UIwldaaE                                         .               o,       0.O       0.0      0.0       2.2       0.0       0.0       0.0      0.0       0.0       2.5       6.2      1.(       6.3
IkRtlm  latla I                                                     11.1      99.1      10.2     13.6      63.8      59,9      53.9      31.5     31. 1     52.6      53.)     54.6      51.1      57.5
Dpuratlaq RatIo!                                . ~~~~~~~~131.4    120,1  91.   89.5      86.6      81.3      75.9      69.5     61,4      10.1      71.81    73.7       75.4   .76.8
bit el   twr I                                                                (2. 7)     0.5       1.5      2.0       Li        4.3       6.1      6.7      6.0        5.6       5.2       4.9      4.7



K~M3 VILPMISO VATER OIPt  AND SUEMEE PROECT
mALt MM AS  M EF FIM
flEd 1990 US-I  llBimla
IuN                                  m   1  988    19         1990       1   .9!m       (3        994    19N 5    (M       1997     I9       199    2000
.-    khal                                        Prest Fuucast
me SuatIq Im!oa                                              (l.1    13.0m     0.5      I.9     2.5      4.1      6.0      9.0    10.5    10.1    10.         9.       9.3     9.1
fr ldatis cad Irthatiu                                       4g.    41 4:        1      4.2       35L
kla-seatm  (susan (oat)                                      *.}    10.2)    0.2        0. 9* -  0., @    .        1       0                     -   1.1      1:5      1.5     1:i
at es     d iimds                                           (0.31   (0.3)    0.0        0.0    12.21     0.0      0.0     0.0    (0.91    11.1)   (3.)    17.21    17.41   17.3)
gross  atlnal k as  emratlum                                 1.1      0.1      4.9      7.0     5.1      8.9    11.1    14.5    15.8    55.8    14.l    30.8    10.7    10.7
lss" hsaIi:atie                                              (.0    10.00)   (0.31   40.5    (0.51   10.41   (0.41   10.41   10.41   (3.51    (.43    13.2)   13.1)   13.0)
Imarmst EIpasss                                        (0.1)   10.3)    10.41   10.41   (0.51   (0.91    (3.21   11.71   12.21    (2.43   (2.43    (2.33    (2.31    12.41
lot h(eleal Cask Buf atim                                     (.0     0.5      4.1       .       4.4     7.7      9.5    12.4    13.2       9.8      8.4      5.3      5.3     5.3
Martil  Waial beds                                           0.6    (0.11   (0.9)    10.9)    0.1    10.41   (0.5)    0.8)   10.71    11.01    (0.93   (0.71    (0.11    10.61
Olte lssmio  ad Liabilities Ids                              (0.31   (1.21    0.4    40.0)   (0.0)-  10.0)   (0.03    (0.03   (0.03   10.03   (0.03.   (0.0)   4o.03   (0.0)
ltermat Clltibatloa to Imveslnt                             1.2    (0.8)    3d.        5.2     4.5   ' 7.3       9.0    it.?    12.5       303      7.5     4.6      4.5      4.1                            I
utnest Cat, l3tIIC(ie  project                               1.9      2.1      5.6      0.8     8.      12.9   1.l    28.1    13.3    11.4          7.3     L.o      0.0      0.0
Othr works                                                   0.3      (.0      0.-.     2.1--  1.0  -   0.8       1.0      1.0      1.2     1.4      1.4      8.7      7.9     8.8
stutibtd lnluta                                               3.4     4.91    9.8       0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2
Enlat.) ItoutuCots                                            5.0     3.4    14.2       3.7      9.B    13.9    11.3    19.4    20.2    13.1         9.4     6.9       3.1     9.1
Capitalized Intuest                                           0.0     0.1      0.1      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
1e1( luntmt cost                                             5.3      8.7    16.3       3.?     9.6    13.9    17.3    19.4    20.2    13.1          9.4      L.      3.1      9.1
3,b,1rd Flaaos                             -.      -    -    4.6      9.5    12.7    Il.SI - 5.3         4.       3.3      7.7     7.7      4.3      1.9      4.4      3.5     4.4
IswseWOas   In  lou                                          0.2      2.0      2.4      0.5     3.3      5.2      4.6      7.4     7.6      5.0      3.3     0.4      0.0      0.0
Siroumls, CeoFlacter Ism                                     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0,0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0
llskvs.mts, future Lous                                      0.       0.0      0.0     0.0      0o.      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     4.1      3.7      4.1
Tal Lans                                                     0.2      2.0      2.4     6.5      3.3      5.2      6.4     1.4      7.0      5.0      3.3     4.       3.7      4.1
Cuou     Cotrlrlit s                                         3        4.9      9.8      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2      0.2      0.2     0,2      0.2      L2
Tdal Esteoal Finutioq                                        3.8      LI    12.2        0.7     3.5      5.4      4.       7.7     8.0      5.2      3.4     4.7      3.t      4.4
chant la  Cask                                               (0.73    12.11    (0.51    2.2    1(.3!    11.1)   (1.5)    10.01    0.3       1.0      1.1      0.3      0.3    M0.D
hOt lorres Emuit (tine)                                  63        .4       .               L        7,3:    4.9      6.9      1.1     2.1      2.5      2.0      2.0      2.0
Stadad  mtrhiotigm  to lowestmest I   -                      55.8   (21.-1   55.5    4.4 - 4.1.3    53L.         52.3    41.0   642.8      4.1    31.5    52.6    51.4    52.6
Coweste C.trlbtlim  to loeulut I                                                              51.0    53.2    51.1    61.9    45.1    14.0    47.4          54.9   5U.-   52.4



5m    VLUISII IllATEO S       API ND SEI5EW E PMECT
ESI10' AUIIE O51we
lEad 1190 I3-S mlilii.)
Year eding keaber 31                           591      1939    M199    19S0    I"5        gm       193    1994    1995    m996    19917        1       19q9    2N
kiul                                       Prevent fEtrKist
* -         (                                                                                                                        )
filed uuts
6res Plat Is Service                                    141.2   139.1   151.4   138.3   170.6   181*4    196.0   209.3   224.7   242.4   253.9   272.6   281.S   291.2
ktuallAted ielation                                     129.0)   131.01   132.11  135.5)  141.5)   141.31  (51.51   151.01   163.0)  169.4)   176.31   (83.6)  191.21   (99.1)
Di Pliead In SIrvI                                      1132    100.1   I1.6   123.0   12?.1   135.1   144.5   151.3   161,7   173.0   192.6   199.0   190.3   192.1
kar Is trogress                                           1.4     2.3      5.0      2.2      2.1     5.8      9.3    17.2    21.9    17.9    11.2         6.8      6.4     6.2
i flied lImts                                   ,       114.5   110.3   123.7   125.2   131.2   140.9   153.1   169.5   183.6   IS0.8    m3.e   195f.            196.6   193.3
imit kilts
Cash ad Shrt tirm luvesaet                                0.2      0.2     0.e      2.9      0.5    10.3)    12.21   n1.n)   (1.2)    10.01       1.7     1.3      1.3      1.5
kcmts  eteIvdable WAt9                                    2.1      2.6 -     .3  -'-4.0 3    3,2      3.6     4.2      4.9 5     .5      S.i     :.m      6.0      6.2      6.4
blerlals and hptliu                                       1.0      1.1     0.7      0.9      1.3      1.3     1.4      1.4      1.5      1.6      1.7' I  1.1      9.3      1.9
Obtr                                                      1.5      0.6      0.4     0.3    '0.4       0.4     0.4      0.4      0.5      0.5      0.5     0.6      0.6     0.7
letl  urret Assets                                        5.3     4.5      5.3      1.9      5.3     4.A      3.8      4.?      6.3     7.7      i.7    JO.1    10.4    10.4
th   hsit6                                                    1.0     2.2      0.1      0.1     0.5      0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0                          a
hitll                                                       120.    117.0   129.0   133.3   136.7   145.6   157.7   113.5   139.9   199.6   203.5   20M.9   207.1   201.T
LI3JLII5F  A D El 301
I!t tU                                                       4.       45.3   106.7    U.3    74.0    65.9    60.4    59.0    59.9    59.6    56.3    49.1    43.6    39.1
Ibetar c ctu                                                 15.9      62      3.3   -3.9    52.0    65.3    73.4    82.           91.6   100.6   101.5   113.1   125.7   132.3
mug Iva. I.ablllus
Lug farm  sbt                                             0        2.1     5.5      4.6      7.5    12.3    19.9      2.       30.3    31.3    29.9    30.3    29.9    30.2
other                                                     0.0     0.01    0.0  --.0."'10.0           0.0      0.0      0.0      t.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Totl Lag Tar UabllItIes                                   0.7     2.1      5.5    .  .4.6. 7.5      12.8    19.9    21.5    30.8    31.3    29.?    30.3    29.1.   30.2
mts  Ulabilitin
knauts payable                                            2.0      1.4     0.?      1.2      1.3      1.7     2.0      2.3      2.5     2.0      1.3      1.9      1.9     2.1
Lutit Pull.           Teo r ebt                           0.1      0.4     0.9      0.7      0.5      0.5     0.5      0.5      4.3     4.1      4.0      3.3      3.7      3.
Shwit lit  Loas                                           0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0
Other CUn reat UsbIlItles5.2                                       I.1 -     .2     1.2 '-U  1.3      1.4     1.5      1.7      1.3     2.0      2.1      2.2      2.3      2.5
Told EMnt Liabilities                                     3.3      2.,     3.0      3.1      3.2     3.6      4.0      4.4     8.         1      7.9      7.9      7.9     3.,
Total                                                       120.?   117.0   129.0   133.3   136.7   145.6   157.1   173.5   189.t   1911.6   203.5           5.9   201.1   20M.e
UebtllDeltifgsIt,9                                            W ..1   2.7      5o9      4.1       0      9.3    13.2    I6        11.9    13.2    IIo t      16.9    16.6    lk
Ctwat  tllt                                                  1.6      I lA    5.8      2.5-1.1 -..I     1.3      0.?      1.1     0.7      5.0      1.2      1.3     1.3      1.3



I;ECND VII0RI MITER1 TS uPPn UND SEETRk6E PROJECT
17       IM      IM       I9M 1a9l    IM            IVY3    1994    1995    1996       197      19       1999    2000
kimal                            Wi~~~~~~Prset Fouucast
Aims    lmwZstmt I comsttla  troastiat It" 115-l            63.5   10.9   631.3   647.4         1.    6".0   731.7   154.4   791.1   o2.7   911.7   992.1   596.4   391.9
kws   E           1e1ueI3 sold kcstaut ad It9 A-Ctnusl       13.0    14.1    17.7    24.1    25.5    29.3    33.6    40.2    44.9            45.0    45.0    45.1    45.1    45.2
Avr4e  sttra   l            aatei  sol5 ita.. i   u  a   tsl                   ' . 3 29  11      2b:1    21:1    21:1   flT         1        Bi       i1:.    I1:      i1:    i
Aw rC ost /       tII3d  cestd t ad t1"    90-St             19.t    20 4      19.1    24.3    24.5    26.2    27.7    30.0    32.7    33.9    34.3    35.2    36.0    36.1
Iver a   wesouael COstl*3 old Itmosat ad 1"9  tSCiots)        4.6      5.1      5.3      9.3      7.0      7.3      1.6     7.9      8.2      8.2      9.3      9.4     9.4      9.5
MoXrik                                                       91.6    89.1    19.2    65.6    63.8    59.9    55.9    51.5    S1.1    52.6    53.1    54.6    56.1    57.5
Upratll  Ral                                                131.4   123.1    96.4    f9.5    96.6    E1.3    75.8    69.J    68.4    70.6    71.8    73.7    75.4    16.8
eb t Senls C rl (tissN)                                       1.       34        , l1    7        5.4     7.3      6.9      0.9      6.1      2.7      2.5     2.0      2.0      2,0
oebIi  eIEoI      I                                          0.7      2.7      5.1      1.1      6.0     9.3    13.2    10.5    18.9    18.2    16.9 .16.9    16.6    16.6
Coatr IstIoc  to Imwl ut 1::                                 55.9   121.91   55.5   149.4    47.1    53.8    52.0    61.0    62.9    69.7             u1.S    52.6    57.4    52.0
kAcoels Rssivahlelmaqspauifiy sanS                            3.1 -.  2.7  _- 2.7.... - -2.7   -  1.9       .      119      1.9      1.9      1.9     1.9       1.9     1.9      1.9
Imwslsmets other tha Pioject (csstat Iffl Ws mllion)    4.1            6.3    10.6       2.9      1.4     1.1      1.4      1.4      1.6      1.       '.8    10.0      9.0    10.1
Rkaser ci paid-is shares fflai"le                            *.a.    a.a. 2,506.6  2,506.6  2o50.6  2,50.6  2,506.6  2,506.6 2,506.6  2,506.6  2,506.6  2,506.6  2,506.6  2,506.6
hot na            slars (coastat 1990 9-catsl                a.A.    u.a. l     .81-    5.01     5.03    5.15     5.34     5.65     6.00    6.35   : 6.62    6.69      6.75    6.80
Slurs price at 50. stack sekqe                               a.a.    A..    D. B.    ma,          ..       ...    ".a.      .a.     $.a.    a.a.   a a..    ma.        s.a.    D.a.
Iwlvidua  per share Icaustaat 1990 IlS-nts)                  n.a.    m.a.       0.0      0.0      0.1      0.0     0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.1     0.2      0.3      0.3
Pric-En.lus Dlti.                               *             a.a.    e.a.    N.a.    45.0    55.0    46.1    32.4    19.6    18.2    19.7    19.4    21.5    22.3    21.0
Price ta-Ci ilo  3.11. *                                       a      a..       Ma.     19.2   ,17.8    15.1    13.4    11.0    10.4    11.0    10.9    10.7    10.9    10.9
pilste-look Daias                   '.       . -      --    a..- -. a. .--m.a. .- a--m.a.                m,a.     n.a.    a...    o.a.    a.a.    mom.    a,. A         .a.    s.A.
hissd ofIrare II)
BIe totl assets                                            3.11    flat)   t0.1I    2.4       2.1      2.5     L5       5.4      5.7      5.4      5.4      4.9     4.9      4.1
b asverg met asstts to asprat1.                           U2.51    12.71  - 0.5    - 1.5       2.0     3.1      4.3      6.1      6.7      6.0      5.6     5.2      4.9      4.7
b"I ally13.43    13.41    (0.5)                                                       2.3      1.8     2.2      3.1      5.3 .   5.7       5.2      5.3     4.7      4.5      4.2
Oivii      yeldsi t*. S.                                                 -..e    . -..__ 0.0   1.8      0.o     0.0   .   o0.0    0.0   .  0.0      1.5     3.7      3.9      3.7
*   'ada  bos vae t&1   



611       l3 Oll    1C31         all0         - 011     41        14131    fall          till       141i        00        III       5O1        141                111                360   AOIiItU8
to16 Its       SfIfCOf               Olf                       I   of us11 tri  casll0   111111   411011         Wo01 t  6N1.1    fr            06110                                         UU6ISW MM13
so all' I   aOIif'fI  is-toI1   601f'0    3*ol3t   ~ 5f55it        5f*995      (1.f.5j    5fil51g    tol        sosi       t3.f    "It4        4451              t.0611ssnUUI   51l
fv'i&3    5*OtL'L   #111'01   ulf'05sL    ;10'11      LILI41        let40    cr45611       " 11100'  0       15014'   15118t    01611        04114'S         5.00855           Smiml513153  583
a               oo~~~~~0'e  0010      00P         001         '           r         051        80.0       00* fel    ore         eel       tos       661u       0la               Mill06     33@35   15133   6153 
OtRO        9          f1         6,8i                   1          10         1          1          0           l         IS       6*                    U      .1103Sflf   930 33 1155*&111  IiaU111
00le       Co0o       Dole        ea's                  00,0        Col        0010       0-0        golf        *1f       101.       Wi    II 311         U21I1141U~            3515v 'U1132   N62II
6110       f191       Sf1o        We1        Sf1        111o       ff10        111        Sfl        0 911                 lit          lfPIl 911  WI  III                             13U2vlvi10133 'UuI Uh
00CI       OCt0        0CI        "IS        001.       Dole        WI         0010       "I          1(1e       all       t5i       ltlt          & I                                           55135313053ooow    316J3li
folo~~~~ ~~~                            101        10.0 W  e tl  oo  t:          a#         01        tiI        III       fill      Ulf556W~~36
a   ~~~~~~~iia             uu          to"        41:ti,    193,,        U'L        fil4t         itf     gf*9j       u'lij      L1'h8     t     ill                             f.5tl  M                             l      35,.i
-                                                                                                               1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.111103  Mostz
61105      SPluO      5)-155      irtaf      W41-    i s-i Will     1011       60'oifi 0I erii          l        WIC       #14,11     Ulu                        1.1153                  1 lan   N if   613316
fI'0       0181       ZI0         I1II       801o       for?        It'll      fiCil      RISC         11        01        SIll       oro       141                  I1155111  ]3m1336313
ireo       0OO        l00         We?        Wre         We1        sf'0       01.0        We1       ICa         Ilo       Ulf        HIi       IIIt                        ill 131  5   3        S         iII
Bill       MlI        Bill          ll      fill        6)1i        (I         6I         501          si         9                     I5*I149
fllI      fll'       1019 6111 fil          1101      10t6        Wti l      fiL08      016         6011       14'91     ItIll      fill1     Sf166           Win".                       1131 316          50
AIM'       ff,01      ffli        911i       i  sit     16*et      4111        05.0i      051if       II'        Itgii     11.0t      WM*       55'0f           I1'"                     111011  0561303
1c:        1E01       6511        It's       ff,1        5 ItI       '51       0811       6419        tile       8519      16'15      tile5     051             INISM31                   011113 Oliva 3 ml 438133
141to      fo8l       9651t      W1          1.8U it  elt         11%        al'oi      61518       06        WOt'll              6*41ntt tti  -it'l       1.0836.                               ME1 It  a 1335
it t'l.   5111a       q1%1        09'1l      W1'f        0'If       WS6f    ti'81         111        45061       04'01     61111      tl'      1618t    61"1.4'UJI       11     3     - I          Iliasu   Jo emica
es '161    SPI 81      80111t    60111       I'o6l      00'061     H515       (POi       11111e      68181t     WM 'I l 88101                04146    5MUM1 IIW    Is 1               51       '3556      101315 361303
181411     s0'64       W 1166     SOIC       il 11101   L1'S        43111i     of,St      816t      of lug      10'itL   IPIGIt   Sf141        0161 'M8UM0 1            Is63 01518 INSIIUaS 56113310
101        It We                  We'        41'1       66          II'        SI'S       sell       60?         sill      5C4i       011s      51isi       GolWU0  Is                   an '3m31  SSIIO
OCfff  60'18f    (Paitl     gri         CL          Pll       116        111         118         6S         11        8.5        15        f 1,053                               I3333  'ilam '51113j35
Otl'     0If'S        CS'St      06f't      0lt'6      ISO'        561lo     680'        1WI8        i5Iel      4io'I     fOi        611s      sill        t.8II 3 'A                   BOO    "31 'SD113883M6
11.5S      II'Si      II'Si       SI'St      piC?i       KIM'S        lo       IsII"      11119 00'   fIt lilt              WM'    401'S        1S'0l    MiS    93 SS IfdI3i   15   fil   uw'rmomila
96l'8   Isle8'    016'l           11115      a4t's       SZ'S1      90S0 I      ?'b0lol    4110      &(Il        40111     *f'(41     orlol      WeI1      Elts   'A05                      so3   1 '55 355
65111'I   6S'6l0'l  lS'S0&  41'81L  41106  01'911   ~fil'81  O0'S         I (P4      81:141    811 .pil   51'191    10101il   i1111      *.                                will 3635 61'35  11
Sf'OL  fO')1  Sf'81  It'ft  68'Il      4110        5511IM     lcl 1511   111          ItO       00.00     Sf111      b'6S8     ti 118sli
8f'5ll   10'6?1       lia        1'iic      16OOO      H191f      "598C6    Sl'f 01      45106i    801118      If'801  'lt 6511t 141           111            I Sulu3]'1113633
it'811     to-it5      8081       0110       1161tli     W01I       155 K      181(1      111          C3        1L'0lI    iI'f01    8413       I0'31                  12411 81651153  w'~   allI' Oasm
0sI'8      081os      01ISS       Wel        61 l                   Sl'I M  9:8  et1 -ft    -'t       o.II       it-ll     %-ll    trI          lll111_1115U   63    131853
OI'l       II'so      61113       WM'        S8'8i      S2't        SPTI        ti        It  11'l   tl'8i       SIu       18'1o     Isla       CIM                     CaJl Tot~      15    64 35  515
fill1      9sfil      sillf       fi'll'    fl'lI       Sfill       of06       51'CI      l 0        S11 0110gil1il        10.94      61'14     9111                  f8181ull633   31SI 163   UI
01116  16'968  10111  00121    11186      01'~iLII    018        4181-l     it16       01ell      0O'001    0816       It-is      11-41             (4818 1316356j635351'381385
wal         W 5'1     ('W1l CO               i'St       tli 61       Ill       Will0    8ott  1            01       101    H110       1'11      SItl                1AMI Tali                  163  1563151
00'0      890'01      00.0        GO'S      600131      000        600'01      00.0       00/0       81it      102/118    61,("1: 5&'fu'8   14'l'It                                                    51V3 3316I
0001       110        1141       1411        144l       48si8                14ll 8ii ti  61        161        0448      404  6      84861    ju 1540Is 31.190 U 533351 5.1A3 so6311
viva DISVEI
loarouId a5viamas uIw1 KIdafis R1HVim  osiVmIVJVA Q1NODHS



- 68 -
Page 6 of 6
Notes to the Financial proiections
General
1.    In addition to the assumptions specified on page 5 of this Annex and in
Annex 16 - Monitoring Indicators, the projected financial statements for
1991-2000 are based on the parameters specified below. Because of Chile's high
rate of inflation, the figures are expreased in constant end-1990 USdollars. A
second version in current Chilean pesos is available in project files.
Income Statement
2.    Water and Sewerace  -evenues.  The sales and sales revenues (net of VAT)
forecast is taken from Annex 4 - Supply and Demand in ESVAL's Service Area.
3.    Personnel.   Projected to increase in line with the number of water
connections combined with efficiency improvements and a 2% p.a. rise in
remuneration.
4.   Chemicals and Electricity. Changes are a function of treatment and pumping
of water and sewage quantities.
5.    Provision ReceLvables.  5% of annual billing is considered uncollectible.
Sources and Uses of Fund
6.    Proiegt Cost. Project expenditures are input according to the investment
profile shown in Annex 14 - Detailed Project Cost Estimate, net of VAT.
7.    OthLerworks_. Outlays are to be made as shown in Annex 5, ESVAL's Capital
Investment Program, without VAT, after deducting project expenditures.
S.    Accounts Receivable. Projected a ratio of 26 days of average total annual
sales revenues in line with recent experience (Annex 10).
9.     -,ntorv.  Equivalent to 7.0% of gross fixed assets plus one month stock
..,Counts naafble. Payments to suppliers and contractors equivalent to one
_ operating expenditures (other than personnel and depreciation) plus one
ht of capital investment expenditures.
Dividends.  Dividend distribution is based on net income net of monetary
correction, restricted by requirements for self-financing of capital investment
program and mLnimum cash requirement defined as 5 of cash operating expenditures
plus one month debt service.



- 69
SECOND VALPARaISO WATER SUPPLY MND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Economic Analysis
An economic analysis was carried out for the Greater Valparaiso Water Supply and
Sewerage Project--the main component of the proposed project, where the bulk of
the project investments are made and most of the project benefits would accrue.
The analysis made is a modified financial analysis which compares costs and
revenues with and without project. In the without-project case, it was assumed
that system efficiency (water billed as percentage of water produced) would
gradually be reduced over time, maintenance costs would increase because of
system deterioration, water coverage would not increase, and production capacity
would increase only slightly. It was also assumed that even without the project
present tariffs would increase by 45% in 1992 in order to cover amortization and
operation costs of the existing installations.   In the with-project case,
increases in water coverage, system efficiency, and production capacity were
projected as shown in Annex 11. Tariffs with the project are those expected to
be implemented by ESVAL in accordance with the stipulation of the current
legislation; they would gradually increase starting from 1991 and would reach
constant real values in 1995 that represent an increase of 56% for water and 228%
for sewerage.  The increments in tariff calculated as indicated above are
attributed to the proposed investment program that served as the basis for
determining the Government's proposed new tariffs.
The IRR (internal rate of return) and the AIC (average incremental cost) of the
project were calculated for the period 1991-2020 based on the following
assumptions:
1.    Jncremental  costs  and  benefits  were  obtained  by  deducting  the
"without project" values from the "with-project" values.   The costs
consist of: capital costs and operation and maintenance (0&) costs. The
benefits consist of revenues accrued from water and sewerage service sales
due to the increase in tariffs as well as the increase in sales volume.
2.    Cap_tal costs include: initial investments and replacement costs for
equipment whose lifetime is shorter than 30 years.
Initial investments include the bulk of the project costs, which are
attributable to the Greater Valparalso area (see Annex 14), i.e.: all the
sewerage facilities (part A), all the water supply facilities (part B),
part of the institutional improvements (70% of part C), monitoring of the
marine sewage disposal and supervision of constructton (Items 1 and 6 of
part  D).    It  was asoumed  that  the  investments  in  institutional
improvements (part C) are proportional to the number of connections and
population served (Greater Valparaiso represants 70% of the whole
company).   Items 2, 3, 4, and 5 of part D (Consulting services) were
excluded since they are related to areas other than Greater Valparaiso.



* 70 -
Anne2  21
REpl.|    costs were taken into account (about 12 years on the average
after project completion) for all the equipment included in the project,
which represents about 55% of the total project cost.
3.    O&M costs include: personnel, chemicals for water treatment, energy for
water and sewage pumping, and equipment and materials for maintenance of
water and sewerage facilities.
Personnel costa were calculated using an average remuneration of
US$6,230/yr in 1990 and an increase of 2% per year. Of the total number
of employees (920), 439 employees who work in the Valparalso zone plus a
similar proportion of the central personnel were considered attributable
to the Greater Valparaiso Area. A total of 558 employees (representing
about 60% of the total), which were attributed to the Greater Valparaiso
Project, were taken into account for the "without project" and the "with
project" situations in the first years (prior to 1994). The additional
personnel estimated to be required for the operation of the water and
sewerage components of the project is shown below.
Personnel Recuired for Project Ogeration
Period        Additional Personnel  Total Personnel
Water     Sewerage
1990-93                                    558
1994            4                          562
1995-97         4          10              576
1998-2020       6          10              592
Chemical costs for water treatment were taken at USO.45 cent per m3 of
water produced for the "without project" situation, as well as for the
"with project" situation prior to 1995, and USO.49 cent per m3 for the
"with project" situation after 1995. These figures are based on ESVAL's
data and on the consultants estimates carried out in connection with the
design of the Greater Valparaiso water supply system.
Enerav costs for water pumping were taken at US$6.53 per m3 of water
produced (without project and with project prior to 1994) and US$6.39
per m3 of water produced (with project after 1994). The reduction in unit
energy cost is a result of the optimization of the water supply system by
the creation of pressure  zones.   Energy costs for  sewage pumping
without project and with project prior to 1995 were based on ESVAL's 1990
annual costs. Energy costs for sewage pumping and treatment after 1995
(with project) were based on the estimates carried out by the consultants
in connection with the design of the Greater Valparaiso sewerage system.
Maintenance coots including spare parts and materials such as oil, fuel,
etc. were taken as followas



- 71 -
AnnaexZ
Pg3of12
Water supply. Without project: US$11.42 per water connection and a yearly
increaoe of 1% due to system deterioration. With projects US$11.42 per
water connection until 1994; a yearly 1 decrease between 1995-2000
because of system improvements, and US$10.75 per water connection between
2000-2020.
Sewerage: US$2.85 equivalent per water connection (without project and
with project prior to 1995).  The additional annual coots with-project
after 1995 were based on the estimates carried out by the consultants in
connection with the design of the Greater Valparaiso sewerage system.
4.    Revenues  from water and sewerage service  sales  (with project) were
calculated with reference to future water and sewerage tariffs as
stipulated by law (see Table below). Without project revenues were
calculated in accordance with a theoretical tariff, corresponding to the
present tariff increased by 45%, which would have been necessary even if
the project were not carried out to cover the amortization and operation
costs of the existing installations; it was also assumed that this
increase would gradually be introduced within two years (25% increase in
1991 and 45% in 1992).
Water and Sewerage Tariffs {with 2roiect)
WR                 SR
Water Rate        Sewerage Rate          SR, as
Year    (UScents/m3)      (UScents/m3)           1 olR
1990        19.9                4.2                  0.21
1991        20.7                4.8                  0.23
1992        23.2                6.1                  0.26
1993        25.8                7.8                  0.30
1994        29.1               11.0                  0.38
1995        31.1               13.8                  0.44
5.    Water Production. System Efficiency and Number of Connections.  The yearly
volumes of water produced and the number of water connections used in the
economic evaluation are shown in Annex 11, for the "with project"
situation. For the "without project" situation, similar projections were
carried out using the following assumptions:
(a)   no increase in water coverage (sales);
(b)   no  major  increase  in  water  production  capacity  (only  minor
additional sources that can be developed at low cost); and
(c)   gradual reduction of system efficiency (water billed as % of water
produced) from 53% in 1990 to 44% by 2000 and 40% by 2020.



72 -
nnex 21
6.    Discount Rate.  Ths discount rate used for the AC calculation is 10%,
which is similar to the rate used by Chile'. Ministry of Economy for
determining the future water and sewerage rates (9.6%).
The IRR and AIC calculations are shown on the following pageu of this Annex for
the whole project (water supply and sewerage), as well as for the water supply
and sewerage components separately. A summary of the results obtained is given
below.
IRR for the entire project:                      14.6%
IRR for the water component onlys                27.4%
IRR for the sewerage component only:              7.0%
UScentLm9     USS oeg 2erson
AIC for the entire project:          7.5             10.1
AIC for the water components         2.5             3.1
AIC for the sewerage component:      5.0             6.6
Sensitivity Tegtp.
1. Caoital Costg. This test was carried out by increasing the estimated capital
costs of the project (initial investment and replacement costs) by up to 25%.
The IRR results indicate that the Project is moderately sensitive to capital cost
increases. Considering that for most project components the cost estimates were
based on detailed designs plus 10% physical contingencies, it is unlikely to
assume that the capital costs could be higher than 10-20% above the estimated
costs, in which case the IRR would still be acceptable (above 10%).
Capital Investment
Factor             IRR
1.0                 14.6%
1.05                13.5%
1.1                 12.5%
1.15                11.6%
1.2                 10.7%
1.25                9.8%
2. Water and Seweraae Rates. This test was carried out by reducing the water
and/or sewerage rates to a minimum of 75% of the scheduled rates.  The IRR
results indicate that the Project is significantly sensitive to rate reductions
(see Diagram on the last page of this Annex).  This stresses the need for
ensuring that no adverse changes in the pricing system for water and sewerage
services would occur.



73 -
&nngz 2
Faste 5 o
Water and/or         Internal R atel ofRturna 1IRRl
Sewerage Rate     Water        Sewerage    Both Water
Factotr         PlI            Onvi
1.0             14.6%         14iiA 14,Ak
0.95            12.4%         13.8%        11.6%
0.9             10.3%         13.0%         8.7%
0.85             8.2%         12.2%         5.9%
0.8              6.2%         11.4%         2.8%
0.75             4.1%         10.6%        -0.5%
3.  System Efficiency.   In the basic economic analysis carried out, it was
assumed that the with-project efficiency would increase from 54% at present to
64% in the year 2000, whereas the without-project efficiency would decrease to
44% in the year 2000 and 40% in the year 2020. In this sensitivity test the
with-project efficiency in the year 2000 was taken at 55% (pesimistic assumption)
and 75% (optimistic assumption), while the without-project efficiency was left
constant (54%). The TRR result. obtained indicate that the project is only very
slightly sensitive to this factor.
System Efficiency
with-proiect (vear 2000_           W i t h o u t - p r c j ec  t
Reduced to 40-45%         Constant f54%)
55%                      14.4%                      14.2%
64%                      14.6%                      14.4%
75%                      14.8%                      14.6%
A comparison between the system efficiency (unaccounted-for water) with and
without project is shown in a Diagram on the last page of this Annex. The other
Diagram on the same page shows the significant effect of the water and sewerage
rates on the internal rate of return of the project.



VATERt SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE - ncremental Vatues (in IIS)
initIat  Reptace-    Capital                             E  n  e  r  g  y          aIn t e na n ce  Total         Total    R  e  v  e  n  u  e      Totat       Net Cash
Year Investment    mset        Costs    Personnel  Chemicals   Mater        Sewiage      Mater    Seweerage   0 & H      Costs        Mater     Sewlage    Revenues       Flowe
--  - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - -- - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - -
1991  8435,000            0  8435,000            0     (6,624)   (9,698)           0    (11.557)         0   (27,880)  8,407,120  1,248,377  590.687   1,839,064  (6,568,056)
1912961,000          0 12,961,000           0    (17,990)  (26,338)            0    (23,630)         0   (67,957) 12,893,043  1,070,238   976,471   2,046,708 (10,846,335)
1993 15,436,000           0 15,436,000           0    (29,976)  (43,886)           0    (36,234)         0  (110,097) 15,325,903  2,615,875 1,881,132   4.497,007 (10,828,896)
1994 16,128,000           0 16,128,000      26,443    (52,992)  (77,583)           0    (40,746)         0  (144,878) 15,983,122  4,689,506 3,617,916   8.307,422  (7,675,700)
1995 16,053,000           0 16,053,000    121,373    (32,205) (126,171)    910,277    (67,162)  201,545 1,007,657  17,.060,657  6,139,077' 5,206,395  11,345,472  (5,715,185)
1996  9,015,000           0  9,015,000    123,800    (50,203) (154,239)    937,234   (109,830)  201,545   948,306   9.963,306  6,239,149 5,307,018  11,546,167   1,582,861
1997  5,963,000           0  5,963,000    126,276    (71,559) (153,387)    965,103   (153,665)  201,545   88,314   6,847,314  6,340,793 5,409,411  11,750,203   4,902,890
1998          0           0          0    243,292    (88,404) (207,882)  1,037,915   (198,693)  280,554 1,066,783   1,066,783  6,444,033 5,513,603  11,957,636  10,89,853
1999          0           0          0    248,158    (89, 320) (209,075)  1,069,071   (244,943)  280,554 1,054,445   1,054,445  6,548,894 5,619,625  12,168,519  11,114,074
*   2000           0          0           0    253,121    (90,111) (210,10)  1,101,309   (292,444)  349,854 1,111,620   1,111,620  6,655,401 5,727,507  12,382,907  11,27`1,287
2001          0           0          0    258,183    (83,778) (201,852)  1,120,181   (321,288)  349,854 1,121,300   1,121,300  6,741,921 5,833,669  12,575,590  11,454,290
2002          0           0          0    263,347    (77,363) (193,489)  1,139,346   (351,08)  349,854 1,130,609   1,130,609  6,82,566-5,M09507  12,739,072  11,608,463
*   2003           0           0          0    268,614    (70,864) (185,017)  1,158,865   (381,863)  349,854 1,139,589   1,139,589  6,918,350 5,986,330  12,904,680  11,765,092
2004          0           0          0    273,986    (64,281) (176,436)  1,178,747   (413,648)  349,854 1,148,223   1,148,223  7,008,289 6,064,153  13,072,441  11.924.218
2005          0           0          0    279,466    (57,612) (167,742)  1,198,998   (446,465)  349,854 1,156,498   1,156,498  7,099,396 6,142,987  13,242,383  12,085,884
2006          0           0          0    285,055    (50,856) (158,936)  1,219,625   (480,344)  349,854 1,164,398   1,164,398  7,191,689 6,222,845  13,414,534  12,250,136
*   2007           0           0          0    290,756    (44,013) (150,015)  1,240,637   (515,313)  349,854 1,171,906   1,171,906  7,285,180 6,303,742  13,588,923  12,417,017
2008          0 46,402,203 46,402,203    296,571    (37,081) (140,978)  1,262,040   (551,401)  349,854 1,179,006  47,581,208  7,379,888 6,385,691  13,765,579 (33,815,630)
2009          0           0          0    302,503    (30,058) (131,824)  1,283,843   (588,638)  349,854 1,185,680   1,185,680  7,475,826 6,468,705  13,944,531  12,758,851
2010          0           0          0    308,553    (22,944) (122,551)  1,306,054   (627,054)  349,854 1,191,911   1,191,911  7,573,012 6,552,798  14,125,810  12,933,899              -
2011          0           0          0    314,724    (15,738) (113,157)  1,328,680   (666,682)  349,854 1,197,681   1,197,681  7,671,461 6,637,985  14,309,446  13,111,765
2012          0           0          0    321,018      (8,438) (103,641)  1,351,730   (707,552)  349,854 1,202,971   1,202,971  7,771,190 6,724,278  14,.495,469  13.292,497
2013          0           0          0    327,439      (1,043)  (94,001)  1,375,213   (749,699)  349,854 1,207,762   1,207,762  7,872,216 6,811,694  14,683,910  13,476,147
2014          0           0          0    333,988       6,448   (84,236)  1,399,137   (793,156)  349,854 1,212,035   1,212,035  7,974,555 6,900,246  14,874 800  13.662.766
2015          0           0          0    340,667      14,036   (74,344)  1,423,512   (837,957)  349,854 1.215,768   1,215,768  8,078,224 6,989,949  15,068:173  13:852:405
2016          0           0          0    347,481      21,723   (64,324)  1,448,345   (884,139)  349,854 1,218,941   1,218,941  8,183,241 7,080818  15,264,059  14,045,118
2017          0           0          0    354,430      29,510   (54,17)  1,473,648   (931,737)  349,854 1,221,532   1,221,532  8,289,623 7,172,869  15,462,492  14,240,960
2018          0           0          0    361,519      37,398   (43,890)  1499,428   (980,789)  349,854 1,223,520   1,223,520  8,397,388 7,266,116  15,663,504  14,439,98
2019  0    0           0    368,749    ~~~~~~45,389   (3,43    1,2,9  (,333)349,854 1,224,882   1,224,882  8,506,554 7,360,576  15,867,130  14,642,248
2020          0           0          0    376,124      53,483   (22,922)  1,552,462 (1,083,408)  349,854 1,225,593   1,225,593  8,617,139 7,456,263  16,073,403  14,847,809
IRR                14.6X
09



- 75 -                                               BnnLV
'-ge 7 of 12
WATER SUPPLY ONLY   Incrementat Values (In USS)
................ ................................ 
Rejtace-      Totat                             Energy   Hafntenance    Totat          Totalt      Revenues    Net Cash
Year Investment   *ment    InvestmeMt  Personnelt  Chemicals   Water            Water        0 & N        Costs        Water        Ftow
1091  2,658,000            0  2,658,000            0      (6,624)  (9,698)       (11,557)    (27,880)  2,630,120  1,248,377?  (1,381,743)
1992  4,107,000            0  4,107,000             0    (17,990) (26,338)       (23,630)    (67,957)  4,039,043  1,070,238   (2,968,806)
1993    647,000            0    647,000            0    (29,976) (43,886)        (36,234)   (110,097)    536,903  2,615,875    2,078,971
1994 13 227,000            0 13,227,000       21,154 .  (52,992) (77,583)        (40,746)   (150,167) 13,076,833  4,689,506   (8,387.327)
1995 10,569,000            0 10,569,000       97,098    (32,205)(126,171)        (67,162)   (128,440) 10,440,560  6,139,077   (4,301,483)
1996  3,912,000            0  3,912,000       99,040    (51,521)(154,239)    (109,830)   (216,550)  3,695,450  6,239,149    2,543,69
1997           0           0           0    101,021    (71,559)(183,387)    (153,665)   (307,589)   (307,589) 6,340,793    6,648,382
1998           0           0           0    194,633    (88,404)(207,882)    (198,693)   (300,345)   (300,345) 6,444,033    6,744,378
1929           0           0           0    198,526    (89,320)(209,075)    (244,943)   (344,812)   (344,812) 6,548,894    6,893,706
2000           0           0           0    202,497    (90,111)(210,108)    (292,444)   (390,166)   (390,166) 6,655,401    7,045,567
2001           0           0           0    206,547    (83,778)(201,852)    (321,288)   (400,371)   (400 371) 6,741,921    7,142,292
2002           0           0           0    210,677    (77,363)(193,489)    (351,086)   (411,260)   (411,260) 6,829,566    7,240,826
2003           0           0           0    214,691      (70,8664)(15,017)    (381,863)   (422,854)   (422,854Y 6,918,350    7,341,204
2004           0           0           0    219,189    C64,281)(176,436)    (413,648)   (435,175)  *(435,17S) 7,008,269    7,443,464
2005           0           0           0    223,573    (57,612)(167,742)    (446,465)   (448,247)   (448,247) 7,099,396    7,547,643
2006           0           0           0    228,044    (50,856)(158,936)    (480,344)   (462,093)   (462,093) 7,191,689    7,653,781
2007           0           0           0    232,605    (44,013)(150,015)   (C15,313)   (476,736)   (476,736) 7,285,180    7,761,917
2008           0 19.402,619 19,402,619    237,257    (37,081)(140,978)    (551,401)   (492,203) 18,910,416  7,379,888  (11,530,528)
2009           0           0           0    242,002    (30,058)(131,824)    (588,638)   (508,518)   (508,518) 7,475,826    7,98U344
2010           0           0           0    246,842    (22,944)(122,55t)    (627,054)   (S25,707)   (525,707) 7,573,012    8,098,-19
2011           0           0           0    251,779    (15,738)(113,157)    (666,682)   (543,797)   (343,797) 7,671,461    8,215,259
2012           0           0           0    256,815       (8,438)(103,641)    (707,552)   (562,817)   (562,817) 7,771,190    8,334,007
2013           0           0           0    261,951       (1,043) (94,001)    (749,699)   (582,792)   (582,792) 7,872,216    8,455,008
2014           0           0           0    267,190        6,448  (84,236)    (793,156)   (603,754)   (603,754) 7,974,55S    8,578,309
2015           0           0           0    272,534       14,036  (74,344)    (837,957)   (625,731)   (625,731) 8,078,224    8,703 95S
2016           0           0           0    277,984       21,723  (64,324)    (8864,139)   (648,755)   (648,755) 8,183,241    8,831,995
2017           0           0           0    283, 44       29,510  (54 173)    (931,737)   (672,856)   C672,856) 8,289,623    8,962,478
2018           0           0           0    289  15       37,398  (43,890)    (980,789)   (698 066)   (698 066) 8 397,388    9,095,454
2019           0           0           0    294,999       45,389  (33,47)  (1,031,333)   (724,             418)  18) 8,506,554    9 230,972
2020           0           0           0    303,899       53,483  (22,922)  (1,081,408)   C731,947)   (7541,9A7) 8,617,139    9,369,086
...............................................................................................................  ...................
IRR  IJneer        2 14X
.   .   .   .          .                                    ..  .  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..   ... . . . . . .



76                                           A
Page 8 of 12
SEUERAGE ONLY - Incremental Values (In USS)
...........................................
Reptace-     Total                  Energy   Maintenance  Total       Total     Revenues    Net Cash
Year Investment   ment       Investment Personnel   Sewage    Sewerage    0 & M         Costs     Sewerage       Flow
1991  5,776,000          0   5,776,000           0          0          0          0  5,776,000       590,687  C5,185,313)
1992  8,854,000          0   8,854,000           0          0          0          0 8,854,000        976,471  (7,877,529)
1993 14,788,000          0  14,788,000           0          0   .      0          0 14,788,000    1,881,132 (12,906,86)
1994  2,901,000          0   2,901,000       5,289          0          0      5,289  2,906,289    3,617,916      711,627
1995  5,483,000          0   5,483,000      24,275    910,277    201,545  1,136,097  6,619,097    5,206,395  (1,412,701)
1996  5,103,000          0   5,103,000 . 24,760    937,234    201,545  1,163,539  6,266,539    5,307,018    (959,521)
1997  5,963,000          0   5,963,000      25,255    965,103    201,545  1,191,903  ?,154,903    5,409,411  (1,745,492)
1998          0          0            0     48,658  1,037,915    280,554  1,367,128  1,367,128    5,513,603   4,146,475
1999          0          0            0     49,632  1,069,071    280,554  1,399,256  1,399,256    5,619,625   4,220,369
2000          0          0            0     50,624  1,101,309    349,854  1,501,787  1,501,787    5,727,507   4,225,720
2001          0          0            0     51,637  1,120,181    349,854  1,521,672  1,521,672    5,833,669   4,311,997
2002          0          0            0     52,669  1,139,346    349,854  1.541,869  1,541,869    5,909,507  4,367,638
2003          0          0            0     53,723  1,158,865    349,854  1,562,442  1,562,442    5,986,330   4,423,888
2004          0          0            0     54,797  1,178,747    349,854  1,583,398  1,583,398    6,064,153   4,480,754
2005          0          0            0     55,893  1,198,998    349,854  1,604,745  1,604,745    6,142,987   4,538,241
2006          0          0            0     57,011  1,219,625    349,854  1,626,491  1,626,491    6,222,845   4,596,355
2007          0          0            0     58,151  1,240,637    349,854  1,648,642  1 8,642    6,303,742   4,655,100
2008          0 26,997,926  26,97,926       59,314  1,262,040    349,854  1,671,209 28,669,135    6,385,691 (22,283,444)
2009          0          0            0     60,501  1,283,843    349,854  1,694,198  1,694,198    6,468,705   4,774,507
2010          0          0            0     61,711  1,306,054    349,a54  1,717. ;18  1,717,618    6,552,798   4,835,180
2011          0          0            0     62,945  1,328,680    349,854  1,74i,479  1,741,479    6,637,985   4,896,506
2012          0          0            0     64,204    351,730    349,854  1,765,788  1,765,788    6,724,278   4,958,490
2013          0          0            0     65,488  1,375,213    349,854  1,790,555  1,790,555    6,811,694   5,021,139
2014          0          0            0     66,798  1,399,137    349,854  1,815,789  1,815,789    6,900,246   5,084,457
2015          0          0            0     68,133  1,423,512    349,854  1,841,49   1,841,499    6,989,949   5,148,450
2016          0          0            0     69,496  1,448,345    349,854  1,867,696  1,867,696    7,080,818   5,213,123
2017          0          0            0     70,886  1,473,648    349,854  1,894,388  1,894,388    7,172,86;  5,278,481
2018          0          0            0     72,304  1,499,428    349,854  1,s21,586  1,921,586 ,  7,266,116   5,344,531
2019          0          0            0     73 ,50  1,525,696    349,854  1 049,300  1,949,300    ;,360,576   5,411,27E
2020          0          0            0     75,225  1,552,462    349,854  1,977,541  1,977,541    7,456,263   5,478,723
..........................................................................................................................
IRR   .             7.0%
.                 .    ~~~~~~. .. . . .. ...   ..



-77-
Page  9 of 12
AIC - Average Incremental Cost * Water Supply and Sewerage
...............................................................
C a p I t a l     C ot s             0   &   H    C o s t s        Total       Water
Initfal   Replace-                without    with      Increme- Incremental   Supply  Population
Year' Investment    atent      Total     Project   Project    ntal          Cost    (MCM/yr)   Served
......................................7....................................................................
1991  8,435,000          0  8,435,000  7,230,703  7,202,824   (27,880) 8,407,120         101.S   751,034
1992 12,961,000          0 12,961,000  7,395,493  7,327,536   (67,957) 12,893,043        102.4  764,416
1993 15,436,000          0 15,436,000  7,564,757  7,454,661  (110,097) 15,325,903        103.3  778,024
1994 16,128,000          0 16,128,000  7,738,671  7,593,793  (144,878) 15,983,122        101.8  795,116
1995 16,053,000          0 16,053,000  7,917,419  8,925,076 1,007,657  17,060,657        100.5   812,528
1996  9,015,000          0 9,015,000  8,998,299  9,045,287   946,989   9,961,989         100.3  824,090
1997  5,963,000          0  5,963,000  8,284,316  9,168,629   884,314   6,847,314        100.0  835,814
1998          0          0           0  8,465,890  9,532,673 1,066,783   1,066,783        99.8  847,705
1999          0          0           0  8,611,708  9,666,153 1,054,445   1,054,445        99.6  859,764
2000          0           0          0  8,760,792  9,872,412 1,111,620   1,111,620        99.5   871,994
2001          0           0          0  8,908,304 10,029,604 1,121,300   1,121,300       100.8  883,330
2002          0           0          0  9,058,894 10,189,503 1,130,609   1,130,609       102.1  894,813
2003          0          0           0  9,212,627 10,352,216 1,139,589   1,139,589       103.4  906,446
2004          0          0           0  9,369,571 10,517,794 1,148,223   1,148,223       104.7  918,229
2005          0          0           0  9,529,792 10,686,290 1,156,498   1,156,498       106.1  930,166
2006          0          0           0  9,693,359 10,857,757 1,164,398   1,164,398       107.5  942,259
2007          0           0          0  9,860,345 11,032,251 1,171,906   1,171,906       108.9  954,508
2008          0 46,402,203 46,402,203 10,030,820 11,209,826 1,179,006  47,581,208        110.3  966,917
2009          0          0           0 10,204,860 11,390,540 1,185,680   1,185,680       111.?  979,487
2010          0          0           0 10,382,538 11,574,449 1,191,911   1,191,911       113.2  992,220
2011          0          0           0 10,563,933 11,761,614 1,197,681   1,197,681       114.6 1,005,119
2012          0          0           0 10,749,122 11,9S2,094 1,202,971   1,202,971       116.1 1,018,185
2013          0          0           0 10,938,187 12,14S,950 1,207,762   1,207,762       117.6 1,031,422
2014          0          0           0 11,131,210 12,343,244 1,212,035   1,212,035       119.2 1,044,830
2015          0           0          0 11,328,273 12,544,041 1,215,768   1,215,768       120.7 1,058,413
2016          0          0           0 11,529,463 12,748,404 1,218,941   1,218,941       122.3 1,072,172
2017          0          0           0 11,734,867 12,956,400 1,221,532   1,221,S32       123.9 1,086,111
2018          0          0           0 11,944,575 13,168,095 1,223,520   1,223,520       125.5 1,100,230
2019          0          0           0 12,158,678 13,383,559 1,224,882   1,224,882       127.1 1,114,533
2020          0          0           0 12,377,268 13,602,862 1,225,593   1,225,593       128.8 1,129,022
,._             ...........................................................................................
Total NPV             74,017,587        982 T,361,932
NPV, UScent/m3                          7.5
NPV, USS per person                              10.1



78  -a
Page  10  of 12
AIC - Average Incremental Cost - Water Suppty only
............ ,O_"..................................................... ..
C a p i t a l      C o t s           O   &   M      C o  ts         Total        Water
Initial   Replace-                wIthout      with    Inereme-  Incremenital    SuppLy    Population
Year Investment    ment        Total      Project    Project    ntal        Cost       (MCC/yr)    Served
........................................................................................
1991  2,658,000           0  2,658,000  5,917,788  5,889,909  (27,880)   2,630,120         101.5    751,034
1992  4,107,000           0  4,107,000  6,058,461  5,990,504  (67,957)   4,039,043         102.4     764,416
1993    647,000           0    647,000  6,203,061  6,092,965 (110,097)      536,903        103.3     778,024
1994 13,227,000           0 13,227,000  6,351,745  6,201,578 (150,167)  13,076,833         101.8    795,116
1995 10,569,000           0 10,569,000  6,504,673  6,376,233 C128,440)  10,460,560         100.5    812,528
1996  3,912,000           0  3,912,000  6,660,602  6,444,052 (216,550)   3,695,450         100.3    824,090
1997          0           0          0  6,821,056  6,513,467 (307,589)    (307,589)        100.0    835,814
1998          0           0          0  6,976,427 6,676,083 (300,345)    (300,345)          99.8    847,705
1999          0           0          0  7,095,373  6,750,561 (344,812)    (344,812)         99.6    859,764
2000          0           0           0  7,216,88'  6,826,715 (390,166)    (390,166)        99.5     871,994
2001          0           0          0  7,340,508  6,940,136 (400,371)    (400,371)        100.8    883,330
2002          0           0           0  7,466,786  7,055,526 (411,260)    (411,260)       102.1    894,813
2003          0           0          0  7,595,772  7,172,919 (422,854)    (422,854)        103.4    906,446
2004          0           0           0  7,727,526  7,292,351 (435,175)    (435,175)       104 7    918 229
2005          0           0          0  7,862,107  7,413,860 t448,247)    (448,247)        106.1    930,166
2006          0           0          0  7,999,575  7,537,483 (462,093)    (462,093)        107.5     942,259
2007          0           0          0  8,139,994  7,663,257 (476,736)    (476,736)        108.9    954,508
2008          0 19,402,619 19,402,619  8,283,426  7,791,223 (492,203)  18,910,416          110.3    966,917
2009          0           0          0  8,429,936  7,921,418 (508,518)    (508,518)        111.7    979,487
2010          0           0          0  8,579,592  8,053,885 (525,707)    (525,707)        113.2    992,220
2011          0           0          0  8,732,461  8,188,663 (543,797)    (543,797)        114.6   1,005,119
2012          0           0          0  8,888,612  8,325,795 (562,817)    (562,817)        116.1   1,018,185
2013          0           0          0  9,048,116  8,465,324 (582,792)    (582,792)        117.6   1,031,422
2014          0           0          0  9,211,046  8,607,292 (603,754)    (603,754)        119.2   1,044,830
2015          0           0          0  9,377,475  8,751,744 (625,731)    (625,731)        120.7   1,0S8,413
2016          0           0           0 9,547,480  8,898,725 (648,755)    (648,755)        122.3   1,072,172
2017          0           0          0  9,721,136  9,048,281 (672,856)    (672,856)        123.9   1,086,111
2018          0           0          0  9,898,524  9,200,458 (698,066)    (698,066)        125.5   1,100,230
2019          0           0          0 10,079,724  9,355,305 (724,418)    (724,418)        127;.1  1,114,533
2020          0           0          0 10,264,818  9,512,870 (751,947)    (751,947)        128.8   1,129,022
................ ................................ ._................              ..............
Total NPV             24,897,837          982  8,098,125
NPV, UScent/m3                            2.5
NPV, USS per person                                   3.t



-79-                                           brar
Page  11 of 12
AIC - Average Incremental Cost - Sewerage only
......... ................ .......... .................... _.. ..
*C a p i t a l    C o sts             0   &  M    C o s t s          Total      Yater   Population  Population
Initial   Replace-                without    with    Increme-  Incremental  Supply  Connected to Connected to
Year Investment   rment       Totat       Project    Project    ntal        Cost    (14CM/yr)    Sewerage      Water
1991  5,776,000          0   5,776,000  1,312,915  1,312,915          0  5,776,000      101.5       679,916     751,034
1992  8,854,000          0   8,854,000  1,337,032  1,337,C32          0  8,854,000      102.4       693,123     764,416
1993 14,788,000          0  14,788,000  1,361,696  1,361,696          0 14,788,000      103.3       706,565     778,024
1994  2,901,000          0   2,901,000  1,386,927  1,392,215      5,289  2,906,289      101.8       720,243    795,116
199S  5,483,000          a   5,483,000  1,412,746  2,548,843  1,136,097  6,619,097      100.5       734,163    812,528
1996  5,103,000          0   5,103,000  1,437,697  2,601,236  1,163,539  6,266,539      100.3       748,033    824,090
1997 5,963,000           0   5,963,000  1,463,259  2,655,162  1,191,903  7,154,903      100.0       762,141    835,814
1998          0          0           0  1,489,462  2,856,590  1,367,128  1,367,128       99.8       776,491    847,705
1999          0          0           0  1,516,335  2,915,591  1,399,256  1,399,256       99.6       791,087    859,764
2000          0          0           0  1,543,911  3,045,698  1,501,787  1,501,787       99.5       805,934    871,994
2001          0          0           0  1,567,796  3,089,468  1,521,672  1,521,672      100.8       820,872     883,330
2002          0          0           0  1,592,108  3,133,977  1,541,869  1,541,869      102.1       831,544    894,813
2003          a          0           0  1,616,855  3,179,297  1,562,442  1,562,442      103.4       842,354    906,446
2004          0          0           0  1,642,044  3,225,443  1'563,98  1,583,398       104.7       853,304    918,229
2005          0          0           0  1,667,685  3,272,430  1,604,745  1,604,745       106.1      864,397    930,166
2006          0          0           0  1,693,784  3,320,275  1,626,491  1,626,491       107.5      875,634    942,259
2007          0          0           0  1,720,351  3,368,994  1,648,642  1,648,642       108.9      887,018    954,508
2008          0 26,997,926  26,997,926  1,747,395  3,418,603  1,671,209 28,669,135       110.3      898,549    966,917
2009          0          0           0  1,774,923  3,469,121  1,694,198  1,694,198       111.7      910,230    979,487
2010          0          0           0  1,802,946  3,520,56$  1,717,618  1,717,618      113.2       922,063    992,220
2011          0          0           0  1,831,472  3,572,951  1,741,479  1,741,479      114.6       934,050   1,005,119
2012          0          0           0  1,860,511  3,626 299  1,765,788  1,765,788      116.1       946,192   1,018,185
2013          0          0           0  1,890,071  3,680,626  1,790,555  1,790,555       117.6      958,493   1,031,422
2014          0          0           0  1,920,164  3,735,953  1,815,789  1,815,789       11'9.2     970,953   1,044,830
2015          0          'J          0  1,950,798  3,792,297  1,841,499  1,841,499      120.7       983,576   1,058,413
2016          0          0           0  1,981,983  3,849,679  1,867,696  1,867,696      122.3       996,362   1,072,172
2017          0          0           0  2,013,731  3,908,119  1,894,388  1,894,388      123.9   1,009,315   1,086,111
2018          0          0           0  2,046,051  3,967,637  1,921,586  1,921,586      125.5    1,022,436   1,100,230
2019          0          0           0  2,078,954  4,028,254  1,949,300  1,949,300      127.1   .1,035,728   1,114,533
2020          0          0           0  2,112,451  4,089,991  1,977,541  1,977,541      128.8   1,049,192   1,129,022
...... .........  __.. ................... .................................. .............. ............................. . . ....... ........... ................................ .
Total NPV            49,117,171        982.  7,428,97  7,361,932
NPV, UScent/M3                         5.0
NPV, USS per person served                           6.6        6.7



-so -                                                 2A1..
Page 12 of 12
SYSTEM EFFICIENCY
with and without Projet
90 _
so ,
a      70-
S      60 
400
530
40
1990   1599    1992   1993   1994   1996   1996I 1997   1998   1999   2W0
Years
0   With Peffc                      O   Without Pmpjat
SENSITIVITY TESTS
Water & SeweWo Rat=
14.0 -
135.0K- 
10.0,\                                                         ' 
X7.GX - 
j                   ~~~~~~4.OX                                                      \ 
.34.Q                                                              -_
7.0w.         .
1.Q0K                                        
1.00           0.9B            0.90            0.95           0.80            0.75
Water/seawarago   Factor
a   wtte<            +   Saw roge                   Bo fut & 9 Rae



- 81 -
Annex 22
PIe .1 of 4
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Environmental Assessment
The study carried out by the consultants of the Greater Valparaiso sewage
collection and disposal included an evaluation of the environmental impact of the
various alternatives studied, and a detailed analysis of the environmental
implications of the recommended solution, which essentially consists of conveying
the sewage generated in vbrious urban zones to two convenient locations, where
it would be discharged into the Ocean, after preliminary mechanical treatment.
An oceanographic study, which was undertaken in 198 to study the hydrodynamic
behavior of the maritime zone that would be affected by sewage discharges, has
provided the basis for the selection of the most attractive alternative. The
area covered by the oceanographic study was about 80 km2, extending from the
Bustamante tunnel in the south to the Aconcagua River in the north. Measurements
of various parameters such as waves, winds, marine currents, and sea bottom
topography, as well as sampling of sea water for physico-chemical analyses and
tracer studies, were carried out during two distinct seasons of the year: summer
(January-March) and winter (June-August). The sampling was carried out in three
areas: Bustamante, Vergara, and Concon, which correspond to the three possible
sewage discharge locations in the various alternatives studied, i.e., in the
south, center, and north of the area, respectively.
The main conclusions of the oceanographic study were as follows:
1.    The marine currents in the Vifia bay are of small magnitude; this creates
unfavorable conditions for the discharge of sewage flows into the bay,
since the interchange of water between the bay and the ocean would take
place only at very long intervals. Consequently, any sewag, particles
discharged in the area of Vifia-Reflaca would remain in the bay for long
p2riods of time.
2.    The marine currents in the vicinity of the Bustamante tunnel, combined
with the high wave amplitudes, the predominant wind effect and the ocean
bottom topography, have high capacity for assimilation of organic matter,
and thus provide favorable conditions for sewage discharge ln this area.
This conclusion is supported by the tracer studies carried out, which have
shown that che present sewage discharges through the Bustamante tunnel
have only a limited, local effect.
A sampling and analysis program of the wastewater generated in the area and of
various receiving water bodies was also carried out to asseos the flow variation,
the strength of the wastewater and its composition, on the one hand, and the
present contamination conditions, on the other.   The analyses carried out
included the most relevant physico-chemical and bacteriological parameters, such
as: BODS, COD, suspended and dissolved solids, chlorides, oil and grease,
nitrogen and phosphorus, temperature and pH, and total and fecal coliforms.



82 -
Annex 22
page 2 of4
An industrial survey was also carried out to determine the flows and loads of
various industries located in the Greater Valparaiso metropolitan area, which
discharge some type of industrial wastewater to the municipal network or to the
sea.   A total number of 443 industries were identified, out of which 220
industries are considered to be large water consumers (more than 1,000 m3/month).
The industries cover a wide variety of commercial activities such as: food,
chemical, iron and steel, paper and pulp, textile, petroleum, leather and wood.
Two water-quallty parameters are of particular importance in analyzing the
suitability of the ocean water for its intended uses in these areas:
(a) bacterial contamination, which may affect adversely the use of the coastal
waters for recreation, as well as for fishing; and
(b) chemical contamination by certain heavy metals, which may accumulate to toxic
levels in certain aquatic species that may be consumed as raw seafood.
While bacteria are found in domestic sewage in high concentrations, heavy metals
usually originate in industrial wastewater.
As expected, it was found that the Ocean along the whole area from Playa Ancha
in the south to the Aconcagua River in the north, as well as the Quilpu6-Vifia
creek that flows through the center of Vifia del Mar are contaminated by direct
or indirect sewage discharges. The main evidence of the sewage contamination is
the high concentration of fecal coliforms originating from domestic sewage,
indicating the possible presence of pathogenic microorganisms that may present
a direct or indirect public health hazard.
About 70% of a total coast length investigated of 30 km. was found to contain
fecal coliforms in higher concentrations than the permissible limit of the
international and Chilean standards for bathing waters (1,000 per 100 ml). Along
almost half of the coastline investigated, the concentration of fecal coliform
bacteria exceeded 10,000 per ml. in the summer season, i.e., one order of
magnitude higher than the standard.
The favorable marine conditions in the vicinity of the Bustamante tunnel were
confirmed by the findings of four water sampling and analysis campaigns carried
out in 1987 and 1988.   The fecal coliform concentrations, which average
10,000,000 per ml. (7 logs) in raw sewage were rapidly reduced to less than 1,000
per ml (3 logo), i.e., by at least four orders of magnitude, within a distance
of 200-300 m. from the tunnel outlet in both north and south directions. The
great capacity of the ocean to degrade and assimilate high organic loads in the
area of the Bustamante tunnel, which was also confirmed by the BOD analyses, is
presumably due to the energy created by marine currents and waves, the high
dilution effect, and the great depth of the sea a short distance from shore. All
these factors affect the behavior of sewage after mixture with sea water, in
addition to the salinity of the sea twater, which is an important factor in
reducing the concentration and variety of microorganisms present in sewage.



-83
Relatively high concentrations of copper, lead, and cadmium were detected only
near the discharge of the Aconcagua River into the ocean and near the discharge
of the industrial zone of ViCa into the ocean.
The selection of the recommended solution for the disposal of sewage from the
Greater Valparaiso metropolitan area was based on the following findings and
considerations:
(a)   The construction of wastewater treatment plants in the Greater
Valparaiso metropolitan area would be extremely difficult because of the
unfavorable topography, the dense and rapid urbanization, and the
intensive land use for activities related to tourism. Wherever land is
available and conditions suitable for construction of treatment plants,
their cost would be prohibitively high.
(b)  The reuse of wastewater for irrigation or industrial uses requiring
a lower-quality effluent, which might have provided an attractive
solution, had to be discarded because it was found unattractive from an
economic point of view.
(c) The alternatives involving sewage disposal through a sea outfall in
Vifia del Mar have a higher cost than the ones using the Bustamante tunnel.
Any solution involving the construction of a sea outfall within the Vifia
bay also presents two major problems: (i) an outfall pipe would be
subjected to permanent traffic of commercial, military and fishing boats,
which may endanger it; and (ii) any failure of the outfall would create a
major contamination hazard for a large number of public beaches.
(d) The site near the Bustamante tunnel outlet, which is presently used
for discharging into the ocean part of the Valparaiso sewage (about 500
l/e), presents the most favorable conditions for sewage disposal into the
sea.  It is far from the main public beaches located within the Vifia del
Mar bay, the topography is adequate (100 m. depth at only 500 m. from the
shore), the wave energy is considerable (4 kw/m for a wave height of 1 m;
22 kw/m for a wave height of 2 m); the marine currents and the winds
provide good conditions for sewage mixing and dispersion, and for rapid
degradation of organic matter.
(e) Because of its favorable geomorphologic and maritime conditions, on
the one han4. and its limited accessibility for public bathing or fishing
activities, on the other hand, the area of the Bustamante tunnel was
selected ae the most appropriate for the discharge into the ocean of the
bulk of sewage generated in the metropolitan area (95%) after preliminary
(mechanical) treatment.
(f) No effect whatsoever is foreseen in the Laguna Verde zone, which iu
located farther south of the Bustamante tunnel.



84 -
ZA0DEL;2L
Fsge 4 ofe
(g) A second discharge point selected is Concon at the northern extreme
of the metropolitan zone, where relatively small amounts of sewage
originating in the Concon urban area (5% of the total) will be discharged
into the ocean through a small outfall after preliminary (mechanical)
treatment.
(h) A major improvement of the quality of water in the area of the Vinia
bay, where a large number of public beaches are located, is expected to
occur after the completlon of the project. It has been estimated that by
increasing the amount of wastewater discharged through the Bustamante
tunnel from about 0.5 m3/s at present to 4.5 m3/o in the year 2000 and
6.25 m3/s in 2020, no adverse effect of practical importance will be
created, although the area affected by fecal bacteria concentrations
higher than permissible (1,000 per ml) would increase to about 1,000 m
south and west of the tunnel.
(i) A compre2iensive monitoring program is included in the project, whose
purpose is to ensure that the solution adopted will provide the
anticipated results.   In the contrary case, which is very unlikely to
occur in the near future, additional treatment and/or other measures will
have to be undertaken at a later stage.



- 85 -
mm~~~An
SECON  3aM.P"160S WATER SUPPL  AN  SEWEAG  PROJECT
Lint of DocuMents and Data Available Ln Project Jie
1. Licitaci6n Privada para Conoultoria Estudi oOrganizacional, ESVAL, July 1990.
2. Diseflo de Ingenieria para e1 Mejoramiento del Servicio do Agua Potable de
Gran Valparaiso - Anteproyecto, HIDROSAN-AGBAR-SAPEGE, June 1989.
3. Disefto de ingenieria para e1 Mejoramiento del Servicio de Agua Potable do
Gran Valparaiso - Avance del Disefto, H!DROSAN-AGBAR-SAPEGE, May 16, 1990.
4. Disetio de ingenieria para e1 Mejoramiento del Servicio de Agua Potable de
Gran Valparaiso - Avance del Disefto, HIDROSAN-AGBAR-SAPEGE, (undated).
S. Proyecto de Alcantarillado de Gran Valparaiso, ESVAL, June 1990.
6. Proyecto do Alcantarillado do Gran Valparaiso, informe Final, GKW Consult,
April 1990.
7. Proyecto do Alcantarillado do Gran Valparaiso, Planif icaci6n General del
Sistema - Volumen 1: Informe, GKW Consult, July 1989.
8. Proyecto do Alcantarillado do Gran Valparaiso, Planif icaci6n General del
Sistema - Volumen 2: AnAlisis del Impacto Ambiental y Ecol6gico, GKW Consult,
July 1989.
9. Disefto do Ingenieria Nuevas Fuentes para Agua Potable del Gran Valparaiso -
Estudio y Seleccifn do Alternativas, CADE-IDEPE, May 1989.
10. Dioefto de Ingenieria Nuevas Fuentes para. Aqua Potable del Gran Valparaiso -
Estudio y Selecci6n do Alternativas - Anwxos, CADE-IDEPE, May 1989.
11. *Nuevas Fuentee do Aqua Potable del Gran Valparaiso (Drawings): Wells and Los
Aromos-Conc6n Transmission, CADE-IDEPE, 1989.
12. Mejoramniento del Alcantarillado Rio Aconcagua - Diagnostico - informs
Gerencial, ICSA Ltda., 1989.
13. Audit Reporto FY 1988, 1989, ESVAL.
14. Current Legislation.
15. Detailed Tarif f Schedule, ESVAL.
16. Detailed Financial Projections 1991-2000, NSVAL.
17. Estudio sobre seguros para, los bienes de NSVAL S.A., Informs Final,
Deloitte, Haskins and Sells, Diciembre 1990.
18. The Project with OECF Cof inancing, Document prepared following appraisal
mission, Washington D.C., April 1991 (Annex 15 in the Green Cover SAR).



MAP SECTION
I
l



IBRD 22903
SEA OUTFALL        Concon                                   ' Ion
0=560 mm                                                <      Ac=n_a
L-=800m                                                              ga") I/       ~
Higuerillas-/~~ Concon                                                                      0                   5                   10
KILOMETERS
PA1 C/IIC OCEAN
Renaca
Renaca                                                                                 LOS AROMOS
RESER VOIR
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
V ha  D el-_                                                                                     _ _   _  _   __,_          _  _                d
Viina Del Mar
Valparaisu  qf               TURUGUIpAra
ARGENTI ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~ ~ TI
Bustamante 'runnel                                                                                                                                            ,,
S ECO ND  VALPARAI SO                                                                                                                                                   AllhoQ>rl*a>hcidodh  Oshocr./ AiNl  I
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT.                                                                                             :                                           
Proposed  Sewage  Disposal Scheme                                    Villa Alemana   /etorrJaC9                         .!'
PROJECT      EXISTINC                                          Vina Del Mar    RE                         PA        , hoIC
@3           0111  Pumping Stations                           Are                                                                            ETEM;f/gs nlgOfA  '^j    roS0 sO
El                 Treatment Plantsf_.  .- .
~ Rivers and Creeks                                               SAT IAGO,po.,o  hdj,                                      I .
Urban Areas                                  PCAC//,                SNIr0                                                  WALrz IAIA5)lsz
CHILE.h In iorolFh,oon. Coe,ogo5 On s  d  rie5 3oo of any                                                                                               FIG-<R Boundaries
SInternaional Bounda ies/ Z                              6
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROT199



IBRD 22904
(~~~~                                                                             }
W EL~~~~~LS 
O           5            10                           La Calera POA Z   Hijua[          \rJ
KILOMETERS                                  ,aCz     
I-MOFIC-l(. OJC.T-AN                    /                                                        > f  /                S                                                           C
ll     =800 mm                                  f-lE       /     /         
\1;;; L. =2,7 Km  ............. dJ     
co                                         <>o J 
.; Renaca V~~~~~L.= 1.8 Km >RSROR.*  o  0
oca      Km~~~~~~~~daJeaa                             Peoc   SE  I
SECOND VALPARAISO                                                  QUe              REGIIA                                                                      B
<,   \,,q,*                                                                          4 1 [ ~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~REGION;(                          g
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PR~~~OJEC                                 VaZparaiaopaCIF
ROECT   EXISTING                                                       il/etaIR                       SANT
=~~~~ Main Water Aqueducts~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITh Wl
A       nStrE a   T                                ACI                                                      ATIANTIC
Concon Major Existing WaEer Sources  ~~~~~~~~~~~~OCEAN                                                  MLNI
SECOND VALPARAISO                                                    ^ipe           RG,N3                                                  I
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                  Vlais                 i                          PACtFIvC *Q 
Proposed  Water  Supply Scheme-Province Bounde                                                                                                      a    I (  e fEtEM    -'
PROJECT  EXISTING                                                       llti/a           Lr 
i's*   Main Intake and Treatment Plants                                                  - m '                                             7 55 (
-           Main Water Arqueducts s.  1 
*.e.:-            Minor Water Sources (Wells)                          ))*f-_p                                                                                        o
*    Main Storage Tanks                           PA'C/'F/  [gC             SANTIAGO                                                   FAKN so   'X  V;4DrIND5
Coco |Major Existing Water Sources                        c E                                                                               (AM/    @2;'    lHVINAS)
Dam                                                            -PSF/rovince Bund arie, |                     0             sUISIf3sgT-WA -tIAdr
Uivrband A treas ms                                        -Region Boundaries   r                           .ssCSN7
r -.-  Urban Areas                               1          _  International Boundaries  W, 7D
MARCH 1991



