Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 17969
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN-3331-CH)
May 29, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure
Country Management Unit 7
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUI'VALENTS
Currency unit = Peso (CH$)
US$1.00 = CH$ 337(year end 1990)
US$1.00 = CH$ 407(year end 1995)
US$1.00 = CH$ 425 (year end 1996)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CORFO         Corporation for the Promotion of Production (Corporaci6n de Fomento de la
Producci6n)
ESVAL         Water Supply and Sanitation Company of Valparaiso (Empresa de Obras
Sanitarias de Valparaiso
GoCh          Government of Chile
ICR           Implementation Completion Report
IRR           Internal Rate of Return
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PAHO          Pan American Health Organization
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SENDOS        National Bureau for Sanitary Works (Servicio Nacional de Obras Sanitarias)
SSS           Superintendency of Sanitary Services (Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios)
UFW           Unaccounted for Water
Vice President                      Shahid Javed Burki
Country Management Unit Director    Myrna Alexander
Sector Management Unit Director  :Krishna Challa (Acting)
Task Manager                        Alexander Bakalian



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN-3331-CH)
Contents
Preface ...............
Evaluation Sumrx;ary ................
Part I       Implementation Assessment from the Bank's Perspective
A. Background .1
B.    Project Objectives and Description       .3
C. Project Design                     .5
D.  Project Implementation                .6
E. Project Results .10
F.  Project Sustainability .14
G. Bank Performance.15
H.  Borrower Performance .15
I.  Assessment of Outcome .16
J. Lessons Leaed. .16
K.  Bank-Borrower Relationship .18
L.  Consulting Services .18
M.   Project Documentation and Data .18
Part II      Statistical Annexes
Table 1.     Summary of Assessments .19
Table 2.   Related Bank Loans .21
Table 3.   Project Timetable .22
Table 4.     Project Scope, Implementation Schedule & Costs 23
Table 5.   Project Financing .25
Table 6.   Loan Disbursements .26
Table 7.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds .27
Table 8A.  Income Statements .28
Table 8B.  Balance Sheet .29
Table 8C.    Sources and Uses of Funds .30
Table 8D.  Economic Analysis .31
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Table 9.         Monitoring Indicators ....................                     32
Table 10.        Bank Resources: Stafl.Inputs ....................              33
Table 11.        Bank Resources: Missions ....................                  34
Table 12.         Studies Included in the Project ....................          35
Table 13.         Status of Legal Covenants ....................                36
Appendixes:                A. Mission Aide-Memoire ..........................                      38
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR ..........................        39
C. Maps



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN-3331-CH)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Chile's Second Valparaiso Water
Supply and Sewerage Project, for which Loan 333 1-CH in the amount of US$50 million
was approved on May 28, 1991, and became effective on February 13, 1992.
The Borrower requested the closing of the loan on June 30, 1997, one year ahead of its
planned closing date with the cancellation of the undisbursed amount of about US$16.8
million. Co-financing for the project was provided by OECF (JPY5.48 billion). Only the
equivalent of US$1.4 million of the OECF loan was disbursed, and the balance was
suspended in December 1995 (the cancellation has not yet been formalized).
The ICR was prepared by Alexander Bakalian, Consultant. Tamara Noel provided
valuable input in the preparation of the annexes. Myrna Alexander, Krishna Challa and
AsifFaiz are the Country Director, Acting Sector Director and Sector Leader,
respectively. The Task Manager for project appraisal was Emanuel Idelovitch, with Franz
Kriegler (Financial Analyst) and Marta Molares (Lawyer) as team members. The Task
Managers during implementation were Emanuel Idelovitch (1992-94), Franz Kriegler
(1994-95) and Luis V. Chang (1996-97). The Division Chiefs were Alain Thys (1989-91),
Alfonso Sanchez (1991-93), and AsifFaiz (1994-97). The Borrower provided comments
to this ICR that are included as Appendix B.
Preparation of this ICR began in October 1997 and is based on materials in the project
files. The Borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by submitting its final report
in January 1998.



..
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHILE
SECOND VALPARAiSO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT (LOAN-3331-CE1)
Evaluation Summary
Project Objectives
The project had three major objectives: a) to improve the sanitary conditions of the water streams, public
beaches and the marine environment in Greater Valparaiso; b) to optimize the operation of the existing
water supply system and improve water supply conditions in the Greater Valparaiso area by reducing
water losses, creating uniform service pressure and improving the quality of the water supplied to the
consumers; and c) to increase ESVAL's operational efficiency and its institutional capacity to successfully
implement the proposed investment and development program.
Project Implementation
Although the project was appraised in November 1990, it was made effective in February 1992 and the
loan agreement for OECF co-financing was signed in November 1992 for a amount of JPY5.48 billion
(about US$39 million). The total project cost was estimated at US$141.5 million of which the Bank
participation was for US$50 million. ESVAL embarked quickly on the bidding process of the major works
and by late 1992 had a number of contracts under execution. Delays, however, were incurred when
disagreements between ESVAL and the Municipalities of Vifia del Mar and Valparaiso emerged on the
impact of the works on local traffic and business, despite initial assurances conceded by these
municipalities.
The loan was modified twice during project implementation. In May 1993, the first modification of the
loan was signed to reflect the co-financing of the OECF; firthernore the project description was redefined
as the co-financing of the 6-year time slice (1992-1997) of ESVAL's capital investment program to
include not only Grater Valparaiso -as was in the appraisal report- but also the Aconcagua valley. The
new total project cost was estimated at US$168.8 million. The project was divided into two sub-projects,
leaving most of the sewerage component under Bank financing and the water supply component and the
sewerage works in Conc6n for OECF and adjusting the financing percentages for the various categories.
At the mid-term review in November 1994, following the completion of the feasibility studies for some
parts of ESVAL service area for which no funds were previously assigned in the capital investment
program, the revised costs increased to US$218 million. A second amendment of the loan agreement was
signed in November 1994 for the purpose of reallocating the loan proceeds to reflect the fact that many
works contracts also include the provision of materials. Although most contract bidding followed Bank
guidelines, the first year of implementation was marred by a misprocurement case. As a result, in
November 1992, the Bank canceled an amount of US$180,000 from the loan amount after the Borrower
decided to award the contract to a Chilean consulting firm that had presented the second best evaluated
offer.
In early 1993, the overall project implementation started to be negatively impacted by the difficulties
encountered in the construction of the main component of the sewerage of Greater Valparaiso, namely the
Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso collector. These difficulties were mainly due to a) the inexperience of the
contractor in the trenchless technology which was adopted in response to the Municipality of Valparaiso
concerns on the impact of the open trench construction and b) the lack of adequate management capacity



...
in ESVAL to deal with the emerging problems. The complications resulting from this contract led to
many changes in the management of ESVAL and later to the cancellation of the balance of the Bank loan.
In November 1995, a new management took over and initiated the revision of the project. It created a new
department in charge of the Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso collector and the Conc6n sewerage system. The new
team -supported by external consultants- proposed a drastic change of the project design including a new
alignment for the collector which meant the construction of a 3.2 Km tunnel, preliminary treatment
pumping facilities within the tunnel and two sea outfalls (at Vifia del Mar and Loma Larga). The works in
Valparaiso are expected to be completed by December 1998. The Conc6n system - whose design is still to
be finalized and agreed with the Municipality of Conc6n- is planned for construction for the years 1998-
1999.
During 1996, several meetings were held in Washington between the Bank and ESVAL's new
management team on reconstructing the actions taken and looking for the reasons for the failures. In early
1997 the Bank proposed to ESVAL the use of the remaining Bank funds for on-going works. However,
after closer review, no agreement was reached because the procurement procedures used by ESVAL for
these works had not followed Bank guidelines and the request by ESVAL's management for softer loan
conditions (e.g., reduction of the Bank lending rate) could not accepted. In June 1997 ESVAL decided to
cancel the remaining part of the loan (about US$16.8 million).
As for the OECF sub-project, delays occurred from early on in the hiring of the consultant to manage the
component and to operationalize the loan. Moreover, as ESVAI, management was getting absorbed by the
crisis of the Viffa -Valparaiso collector, the OECF sub-project was getting less attention. In December
1995, OECF was informed that its entire loan will be canceled, with about US$1.4 million disbursed on
the services of the management consultant.
Project Results
The project objectives were not met at the time of loan cancellation. Although the Borrower is working
towards the completion of the main collector at a cost which will be many times more than originally
appraised (for a drastically modified design), the water component has suffered significant delays and has
been reprogrammed for the 1996-2001 investment period. In terms of actual achievements the
construction of the (emergency) new outfall at Viffa del Mar has improved the sanitary conditions of the
beaches at that location, despite little or no improvement in the Valparaiso and Conc6n areas.
As a result of the complications regarding the Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso collector and the delays in
operationalizing the OECF component, most of the physical targets have not been yet achieved . Details of
investments financed from ESVAL's own sources were not reported to the Bank and remain
unquantifiable.
From an operational view ESVAL's performance has been satisfactory. Although during the 1991-1996
period the unaccounted for water has remained above 41% -peaking at 44% in 1993- preliminary results
for 1997 indicate that this important indicator for operational efficiency has dropped to 38.8% and is
showing a trend for further decline. On water production and use, the conservation measures appear to
have had a positive impact; production after increasing from 139.8 million m3 in 1991 to a peak of 149.3
million in 1993 has been dropping steadily and has reached about 134.3 million in 1996. Similarly the
water sold per connection is declining from a high 23.9 m3 per month to 21.7m3 in 1996 and is expected
to remain at that level, partially explained by the drop in the nummber of people in a household, water
conservation measures and increases in tariffs. Moreover, ESvAL seems to have achieved significant
productivity gains as measured by the number of employees for 1000 connections; the level of this
indicator has consistently dropped from 3.3 in 1991 to 3.0 in 1997 and is projected to drop to a level of 2.8
in the year 2000.



iv
The financial position of ESVAL is in accordance with targets. The operating ratio (operating
expenses/operating revenues) has improved from 91.7% in 1991 to 70.1% in 1996. The rate of return on
assets has increased from 1.2% in 1991 to 7.9% in 1996, a significant improvement over the rates
projected at appraisal. The accounts receivable position, expressed in terms of average monthly sales
showed improvement over the life of the project dropping from 2.8 to 2.2 but is still in excess of the
appraisal targets. The minimum 20% contribution to capital investment was surpassed in all years until
1996; however, it is estimated that that percentage will drop substantially in 1997 (to 6.4%) and remain
below 20% for the reminder of the projected period.
Project Sustainability
Although the main elements of the projects are yet to be put into operation and some even have yet to be
built, ESVAL is expected to adequately operate and maintain the facilities (primarily the main sewage
collection system) once they are operational. After delays in the construction of the collector assumed
crisis proportions, the GoCh took various actions to bring in specialized expertise to complete the works.
It is expected that the new management will retain the needed expertise as needed to adequately operate
the new infrastructure. On the other hand, the GoCh has taken concrete steps to privatize ESVAL within
a relatively short timeframe (late 1999, according to press reports). From the institutional and operational
points of view, the existing legal and regulatory frameworks guarantee the sustainability of the new
facilities; similarly the tariff and income support laws provide sufficient assurance that ESVAL will be
able to maintain its ifinancial performance.
Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from this project can be summarized as follows:
Project management. An investment program which is substantially larger than usual levels should have
a project management team staffed with experts who have extensive experience with similar size and type
of projects; since this expertise would not be readily available within the institution, a professional project
management team should preferably be contracted; in the initial phase of the project, ESVAL created a
project management unit and staffed it gradually from within the institution; however, the unit lacked
project managers able to deal adequately with the emerging technical issues and contract negotiations. It
was only in 1996 that a professional team was brought in as project managers and was able to quickly
redesign the collector and implement the works.
Projectfinancing. Unless the source and amounts of financing of the project are clearly defined from the
outset, delays in securing the additional financing can jeopardize the successful completion of the project.
In the case of the OECF parallel financing, the delayed recruitment of the management consultant and the
lack of detailed designs for a number of sub-components led to significant delays in operationalizing the
loan before the new management decided to cancel the loan late 1995.
Engineering designs. Although the designs were prepared by qualified engineering firms, large and
complex projects could benefit from external reviews; it is important to ensure that all aspects of such
major undertakings are well studied, especially geotechnical aspects, environmental and social impacts.
In the case of the collector, it was discovered during implementation that the soil conditions were
insufficiently investigated at that time to permit the use of trenchless technology, with many obstructions
encountered during the construction of the collector. As for the environmental impact, although a detailed
analysis was carried out during project design and extensive monitoring was proposed for the period of
implementation, a broad public consultation would have provided a valuable input to the design.



v
Contract execution. It is as important to supervise contract implementation as well as the procurement
process; the executing agency as well as the Bank should engage specialists to permit effective supervision
of complex engineering works involving new and unfamiliar technologies. It was clear that ESVAL did
not get the needed advice (from the supervision consultant nor the Bank) when the contractor proposed
the change in construction technology for less than 10% additional cost and no time extension.
Coordination with Municipalities. Municipalities should be consulted before contracts are tendered to deal
with their concerns and remove any objections to the implementation plans; permits should also be
secured in these negotiations and not be left to contractors to obtain. Legally binding agreements should
be signed in order to avoid any future political interference. Moreover, many of the complaints by the
Municipality of Valparaiso and some local groups would have been best addressed within public hearings
prior to project implementation. Under the current environmental classification of projects, this project
would have been classified as an A project and would have benefited from public consultation.
Bank Projezt Supervision. Project implementation would have benefited immensely from a more
comprehensive mid-term review, especially in terms of finding appropriate technical and institutional
solutions and applying appropriate Bank remedies to redress continuing implementation difficulties.
Moreover, in 1996, at the height of the crisis of the collector, the Bank should have been more pro-active
in dealing with accusations by the new management of the Borrower and political circles. By trying to
maintain its overall good relationship with the GoCh, the Bank was timid in its response and as a result
the public perception of the Bank may have been tarnished.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHEILE
SECOND VALPARAISO WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
(LOAN-3331-CH)
Part I - Implementation Assessment from the Bank's Perspective
A.   Background
Sector objectives
1.    The population of Chile in 1997 reached an estimated 15 million, of which about
86-% live in urben areas, with Santiago, Concepcion and Valparaiso being the three
largest cities. As its main objective for the water and sanitation sector, the Government of
Chile (GoCh) has sought to ensure and maintain high levels of service coverage. At the -
time this project was being prepared, the water supply coverage in urban areas stood at
98% while sewerage coverage stood at 81%; however, a fraction of the wastewater was
being properly discharged. This improper final disposition of sewage has been identified as
a major issue in the sector. Another important sector objective remains the improvement
of the operational performance of urban water supply systems through the optimization of
the distribution networks and storage facilities and the reduction of the unaccounted for
water. Finally a more general objective of the sector is the improvement of the institutional
and financial performance of the water companies for future privatization.
Sector organization
2.    Since the late 1970s, water supply and sewerage services were the responsibility of
13 regional water utilities operating under the Servicio Nacional de Obras Sanitarias
(SENDOS), an agency of the Ministry of Public Works (MOP). In 1990, all 13 were
converted into shareholding companies, whose main shareholders are CORFO
(Corporaci6n de Fomento de la Producci6n), the GoCh and a few private shareholders. A
transparent system of concessions was instituted whereby each regional company was
granted the concession of water supply and sewerage in the geographic area where it was
located, with the option of granting sub-concessions to the private sector for parts of the
area or some of the services provided by the regional company.
3.    During 1988-1990, three major developments in the sector took place. First, the
government created the Superintendencia de Servicios Sanitarios (SSS) as regulator for
the sector. The SSS is an autonomous entity with juridical personality and independent



2
budget. Its main functions are: a) granting concessions for water and sewerage services,
b) policy making for the sector, and c) calculating tariffs and controlling their
implementation. Second, a tariff law was adopted to ensure economic efficiency and self-
financing of the utilities through the use of long-term marginal costing. Third, the
Government adopted a new system of direct subsidizes for low-income consumers to pay
their water and sewerage bills. This income transfer is financed from the central budget
and made available through the municipalities.
4.    During project implementation, the privatization of the water utilities in Chile was
frequently mentioned by government and utility officials'. It is only recently that the GoCh
has initiated the process by contracting the services of a consortium of two international
investment banks to prepare the model for the privatization of ESVAL; once the model is
adopted it will be gradually extended to the other regional water utilities. To prepare for
the expected ownership changes, a new law was passed in late 1997 whereby the
Government will allow the sale of up to 65% of the shares of the utilities to private
investors leaving in its hands 3 5% of the shares which will be reduced gradually as the
private firms increase the capital of the privatized utilities. The Government will maintain a
veto right for 10 years as long as it maintains 10% of the shares. A salient feature of the
law is the limitation imposed on any private operator prohibiting it from controlling more
than one service utility within a given region.
Bank sector lending
5.    The Bank's assistance to the sector supported Government objectives and efforts
to help develop and modernize the sector, to alleviate poverty and unemployment, and to
address critical public health problems arising from inadequate sewage disposal in the
large urban areas. The Bank has made four loans to the sector (including this one; see
Table 2 for a brief description of the previous three): one to the Republic of Chile, one to
EMOS (the water utility in Santiago) and two to ESVAL (the water utility in Valparaiso).
The loan to the Republic of Chile (Water Supply Project -1832-CH) helped finance -
through a project agreement with EMOS - the construction of a water treatment plant,
water transmission mains and distribution systems in Santiago, in addition to the
preparation of the Santiago sewerage plan and studies and equipment for reducing water
losses; part of the loan was used for control of water losses in the rest of the country (with
ESVAL as one of the main beneficiaries) through a project agreement with SENDOS. The
project was completed satisfactorily and closed on June 30, 1986, one year after the
original closing date. The Second Santiago Water Supply and Sewerage, which was for
US$60 million, closed December 31, 1995 after achieving substantially its development
objectives; the loan financed the construction of sewage interceptors, a pilot wastewater
plant and the rehabilitation of water distribution networks. The first loan to ESVAL
financed improvements to the water treatment plant in Las Vegas and the construction of
a 5,00Qm3 water storage tank, in addition to consulting services for the improvement and
One of the contracts under the project (a partial twinning arrangement with the Brazilian utility
SANEPAR) was canceled because of widely believed iminiinent privatization of ESVAL.



3
extension of the water and sewerage systems for Greater Valparaiso; it was closed on
December 31, 1990 and the outcome was evaluated to be satisfactory.
B.   Project Objectives and Description
Project objectives
6.    The project had three major objectives:
a) to improve the sanitary conditions of the water streams, public beaches and the marine
environment in Greater Valparaiso which are important recreational facilities for the
population of the area, as well as valuable econornic resources of the region for tourism
and fishing;
b) to optimize the operation of the existing water supply system and improve water supply
conditions in the Greater Valparaiso area by reducing water losses, creating uniform
service pressure and improving the quality of the water supplied to the consumers; such
optimization would also permit expanding the supply area and preclude the large capital
investments that would otherwise be required;
c) to increase ESVAL's operational efficiency and its institutional capacity to successfully
implement the proposed investment and development program.
Project description
7.    To meet the objectives, the project had the following components:
a) Sewerage and pollution control: in the Greater Valparaiso, construction of about 50km
of trunks collectors and 10km of secondary sewers (also in the city of Limache), four
pumping stations and their force mains and a preliminary wastewater treatment plant at
Valparaiso; a preliminary treatment plant and a marine outfall in Concon;
b) Water supply for Greater Valparaiso: construction of wells in Calera and Limache; an
1 lkm, 1200mm transmission main from Los Aromos-Conc6n; water treatment facilities
(rehabilitation in Conc6n and Pefiuelas and new plant in Conc6n; 13km of distribution
pipes and 15 storage tanks)
c) Institutional improvements: acquisition of O&M and office equipment, consumers
survey, technical cooperation with other companies, training of staff, preparation of
development plan for the company
d) Consulting services: engineering and supervision of works; monitoring of the marine
environment before and after sewage disposal and feasibility studies for the northern and
southern parts of the fifth Region



4
The executing agency
8.    ESVAL is a stock corporation ("sociedad anomma") whose shares are held by
GoGh2, either directly (34.62%) or indirectly through CORFO (64.07%). ESVAL is the
holder of the concession in the Fifth Region to produce and distribute water supply, to
collect, treat and discharge wastewater; it was set up in June 1989. It is the legal successor
to the Empresa de Obras Sanitarias (Fifth Region) which was an autonomous public
enterprise created in 1977. The Fifth Region covers an area of about 16,400 km2 and has a
total population of about 1.5 million of which more than 90% is urban. It is divided into
four areas: Acon;agua (northern interior), the northern coast (Litoral Norte), Greater
Valparaiso in the center and San Antonio in the south (Litoral Sur).
9.    ESVAL is responsible for providing services to about 85% of the population of the
Fifth Region, while the remaining is covered by a private operator in the San Antonio area
(Litoral Sul). The private operator, Aguas Quinta, was given a management contract with
investment obligations ("Contrato de Gestion con Inversion") in September 1993 for a
35-year period. The investment program is estimated at about US$50 million and will
reach about 35,000 customers.
10.   Although ESVAL enjoys considerable autonomy in its operation, the GoCh still
plays a significant role in investment planning and management through the nomination of
ESVAL's directors and the approval of the yearly investment and operational plans.
11.   During appraisal a number of organizational weaknesses had been identified; these
ranged from a shortage of qualified middle-level managers and technical staff to an overly
centralized management structure. More importantly the appraisal report highlighted the
weak executing capacity of ESVAL to deal with the project under preparation. ESVAL
addressed many of the areas of improvement that were identified. During the first two
years of the project life, ESVAL gradually completed the staffing of the management
positions. However, following the difficulties with the implementation of the Vifia-
Valparaiso line, ESVAL management began to undergo drastic changes in its structure
and staff when, in late 1995, almost all its managers had been replaced and substantial
institutional memory was lost.
C.   Project Design
Conceptualframework
12.   The project area of Greater Valparaiso covers a population of about 1.1 million
and includes about 67% of ESVAL's clients for water an, d 71% for sewerage. At the time
2A negligible percentage (about 1.31%) is held by private investors. Recently, newspaper reports have
indicated that at least 51% of the ESVAL shares will be tendered to the private sector by early 1999.



5
of project preparation, the water supply and sewerage coverage in the Greater Valparaiso
area stood at 95% and 85%, respectively. The water supply system had insufficient
production and treatment capacity to satisfy the peak day demand in the summer season
and the average day demand in the years of low flow in the Aconcagua river. The water
distribution system suffered from serious operational problems and high losses caused by
inadequate layout, poor maintenance and leakage and burst from old pipes. Moreover, the
discharge of large quantities of untreated sewage into streams and the ocean occurring in
the service area that included the resort city of Vifia del Mar created public health hazards
and reduced the area's tourism attractiveness. The government aware of these problems
had attached high priority to resolving them. Feasibility studies and detailed designs for
the improvement of the water supply and sewerage systems had been completed through
the first Valparaiso Water Supply Reconstruction loan. The project was an integral part of
the Bank's assistance to Chile which included optimization of investment in infrastructure
by improved maintenance and rehabilitation, increased delivery efficiency and alleviation of
environmental pollution. This project was conceived on the premise that well functioning
water and sewerage infrastructure run by an efficient operator is necessary to help improve
the health conditions of the population and sustain the overall environmental and
economic benefits to the resort towns.
Project Prepara'ion
13.   The feasibility and detailed designs for the project were prepared between 1986
and 1990 by the firms GKW and Hidrosan Chile using resources from the first Bank loan
to ESVAL. During the initial phases of project preparation in July 1989, a project cost of
US$40 million (and a Bank loan of US$20 million) was discussed. In November 1989, the
project cost was updated based on partially completed designs of the major civil works
and the new estimate was put at US$60 million. During the pre-appraisal mission (May
1990), the project scope was broadened and the costs were updated based on detailed
designs which had just been completed. In July 1990, the GoCh informed the Bank of its
desire to co-finance the project with a loan from the Overseas Economic Cooperation
Fund (OECF) of Japan and increase the scope of the project to include investments for
other cities in the Fifth Region.
14.   The Bank finally appraised the project in November 1990 for US$141.5 million of
which the Bank's participation was a loan of US$50 million, the equivalent of the foreign
exchange component of the project. At the time of Bank loan negotiations, since the
OECF loan was still not well defined, it was agreed to go ahead with the project with the
understanding that when the OECF loan materializes, the project would be divided into
two sub-projects which could be co-financed in parallel by the Bank and OECF. The main
criterion for the selection of the components for each sub-project was the urgency and the
timing of the execution of these components.



6
D.   Project Implementation
Project start-up
15.   Although the project was appraised in November 1990 and approved in May 1991,
it was only made effective in February 1992. The loan aLgreement with OECF was signed
on November 1992. ESVAL embarked quickly on the bidding process of the major works
and had awarded a number of contracts by late 1992. UJnlike many Bank projects that
suffer initial delays due to procurement issues, ESVAL was able to use Bank guidelines
and issue acceptable procurement documents. Delays, however, were incurred when
disagreements between ESVAL and the Municipalities of Vinia del Mar and Valparaiso
emerged on the impact of the works on local traffic and business, despite initial assurances
conceded by these municipalities. In December 1992, ESVAL informed the Bank that
agreements were signed with these municipalities allowing the project to proceed. The
opposition of the Municipality of Valparaiso was the most vehement as it objected to
becoming the recipient of sewage of a large area outside of Valparaiso and sought to
redress the situation by asking ESVAL to finance some minor drainage works.
Project implementation schedule and procurement
16.   As mentioned above, project implementation was initiated before finalizing the
OECF loan agreement. The GoCh, ESVAL and the Bank agreed that the Bank loan
should be used for the most critical components, namely the sewage collectors and that
the loan agreement would be amended when the OECF co-financing was secured.
17.   The loan was modified twice during project implementation. In May 1993, the first
modification of the loan was signed to reflect OECF co-financing; furthermore the project
description was redefined as co-financing the 6-year time slice (1992-1997) of ESVAL's
capital investment program to include not only Grater Valparaiso -as was in the appraisal
report- but also the Aconcagua valley3. This was not considered to represent a substantive
change as the then defined project scope covered 90% of ESVAL's capital investment
program; at the same time, it was thought that the new definition would add flexibility to
the Bank's financing and reduce the need for further loan amendments. The new total
project cost was estimated at US$168.8 million, an increase of US$27.5 million. This
increase was mainly due to replacement investments for existing installations and higher
cost of consulting services because of OECF requirements, while the outlays for the water
and sewerage capital investment remained basically unchanged. The additional costs were
to be absorbed by the OECF loan of JPY5.48 billion since its value had increased from
US$39 million at the time of negotiations to about US$44 million at the time of the
amendment due to exchange rate fluctuations; the remaining was to be financed by local
borrowing and reduction of dividend distribution. The project was divided into two sub-
projects, leaving most of the sewerage under Bank financing and the water supply and the
3 The other two areas Litoral Sur, and Litoral Norte were not inbtoduced in the project scope because their
operation was to be tumed over to private entities.



7
sewerage in Conc6n for OECF and adjusting the financing percentages for the various
categories. At the mid-term review in November 1994, following the completion of the
feasibility studies for some parts of ESVAL service area for which no funds were
previously assigned in the capital investment program, the revised costs increased to
US$218 million. A second amendment of the loan agreement was signed in November
1994 for the purpose of reallocating the loan proceeds to reflect the fact that many works
contracts also included the provision of materials.
18.   Although most contract bidding followed Bank guidelines, the first year of
implementation was marred by a misprocurement case. As a result, in November 1992, the
Bank reduced the loan by US$180,000 after the Borrower decided to award the contract
for the supervision of the Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso collector to a Chilean consulting firm
that had presented the second best evaluated offer.
19.  In early 1993, the project implementation started to be negatively impacted by the
difficulties encountered in the execution of the main component of the sewerage of
Greater Valparaiso, namely the Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso collector. The implementation
problems of this contract eventually brought about profound changes in ESVAL's
management, the early termination of the successive civil works contracts with the
Consorcio Ocearnco and ISEKI, Inc., a major redesign of the collector and later the
cancellation of remaining loan proceeds. Given the prominence of this contract in shaping
up the outcome of the project and influencing Bank-Borrower relationship it is important
to give here a detailed chronology of the contract events.
20.   The Vinia del Mar-Valparaiso Sewage Collector. The 10km sewage collector
Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso was designed in 1988 by the German consulting firm GKW as
part of the Bank-financed Valparaiso Water Supply Reconstruction Project (Loan 2652-
CH). After reviewing a number of alternatives, the adopted solution was for the collection
of the sewage of the entire area to be carried to Valparaiso and to the existing Bustamente
tunnel for final discharge in the sea after preliminary treatment. The envisaged
construction method was open-trench pipe laying for about 6 km in the urban areas of
Vifia del Mar and Valparaiso and rectangular concrete sewers cast in situ for the stretch
between the two cities. After an international competitive bidding, ESVAL awarded the
contract to the consortium "Constructora Consorcio Oceanico", formed by the Argentine
company Benito Roggio and the Brazilian firm Oderbrecht, for a base value of US$10.7
million. The contractor was responsible for some design aspects and obtaining all related
permits. After contract signature in September 1992, opposition to the open trench
method emerged from local politicians because of the impact on traffic and commerce.
The Consorcio offered to replace open trench by pipe jacking (trenchless technology).
The contract was increased by US$0.7 million with no change in execution period. In mid-
1993 when it became clear from mounting delays and quality problems that the contractor
would not be able to carry out the work as planned, ESVAL hired a specialist consultant
in pipe-jacking technology. After a review of the original designs the consultant proposed
some changes leading to a second contract amendment for about US$0.7 million (Dec.
93). Following additional soil surveys and a major redesign of the interceptor to deal with



8
soil conditions, an additional amendment to the contract was signed for US$8.8 million
(July 1994) under the condition that the contractor hire ISEKI, Inc., the US subsidiary of
the Japanese manufacturer of pipe jacking equipment of the same name, as the
subcontractor for pipe-jacking. However, the contractor continued to experience
difficulties and after presenting new financial claims which were rejected by ESVAL, the
Consorcio abandoned the works in January 1995. The balance of the contract was US$4.5
million. ESVAL entered in direct negotiations with ISIEKI, Inc. for the completion of the
remaining 2.4 km of pipe-jacking. ISEKI, Inc. was chosen by ESVAL -and the Bank gave
its no objection-, because of ISEKI's satisfactory performance under the previous
contract, the cost savings associated with selecting a contractor already on site and the
difficulty in mobiiizing equipment on short notice. The new contract value was US$7.9
million. The new contract specified that the required permits will be obtained by ESVAL.
ISEKI, Inc. initiated its work in April 1995 but encountered difficulties with the
construction and rehabilitation of the access shafts; moreover, permits were delayed and
the contractor could not proceed normally. ISEKI, Inc, after making financial claims for
the delays, decided to abandon the works in September 1995. The collapse of the
negotiations led to the dismissal of most of ESVAL managers and the beginning of the
investigations by various government bodies of the contracting and management of the
project. To date, this problem has been investigated by a commission of the House of
Representatives and the Contraloria de la Repfiblica, whose results are not known to the
Bank. It further led to the appointment of the Vice-miiniister of CORFO as President of
ESVAL's board. Two separate arbitration processes, one between ESVAL and the
Consorcio Oceanico, and another between ESVAL and ISEKI, Inc., with claims and
counter-claims in the millions of US dollars are continuing.
21.   In November 1995, a new management took over and initiated the revision of the
project. It created a new department in charge of the Vinia-Valparaiso collector and the
Conc6n sewerage system. The new team -supported by external consultants- proposed a
drastic revision of the project design deciding: a) the immediate construction of a 15OOm-
outfall in Vinia del Mar which will be later used only for emergency situations (this was
completed in December 1996); b) preliminary treatment incorporated in the pumping
station of Vifia del Mar; c) a new 3200m-tunnel in rock (to be built through conventional
tunneling method), instead of the existing Bustamente tunnel whose capacity was
reevaluated by the new consultants and judged to be insufficient for the expected design
flow; d) a new pumping station within a cavern in the tunnel; and e) a 400m-outfall at 50m
depth at Loma Larga with a platform on which a primary treatment could be built, if
needed in the future. The works are expected to be cornpleted by December 1998. The
construction of the Concon sewerage system is planned for the years 1998-1999.
22.   During 1996, several discussions were held in Washington between the Bank and
ESVAL's new management on reconstructing the actions taken and looking for the
reasons for the failures. In early 1997 the Bank proposed the use of the remaining of Bank
funds for on-going works (other than the collector). However, after closer review, the
Bank informed ESVAL that it could not finance these works as the procurement
procedures used did not follow Bank guidelines and that the request by ESVAL's



9
management for softer loan conditions (e.g., reduction of the rate of interest) could not be
met. In June 1997 ESVAL decided to cancel the remaining part of the loan.
23.   As for the OECF sub-project, delays occurred from early on in the hiring of the
consultant to manage the component and to operationalize the loan. Moreover, as ESVAL
management was getting absorbed by the crisis of the Vifia -Valparaiso collector, the
OECF sub-project was getting less attention. In December 1995, OECF was informed that
its loan will be canceled, with about US$1.4 million equivalent disbursed on the services of
the management consultant. The reasons cited by ESVAL included the avoidance of the
loan currency risk and OECF procurement policies and procedures.
Project costs
24.   The cost of the project at appraisal was estimated to be US$141.5 million,
including the civil works, materials, equipment, technical assistance, contingencies and
taxes and duties, of which US$50 million was the estimate for the foreign costs.
Following the loan amendments the project cost was adjusted upward in November 1994
to US$218 million. The exact final costs of the project are not known because the project
has not yet been completed and many components have been postponed or canceled.
Although the project description was changed to reflect the time slice investment of
ESVAL for the period 1992-1997, ESVAL continued to consider the project as the initial
description of the Bank-supported components. The cost of the (Bank-financed) project at
the June 1997 cancellation date, with the partially completed collector, is estimated at
US$61.2 million (with many components postponed or incomplete)4. A best effort
estimate by Bank staff would give a figure of US$158 million as the total amount spent by
ESVAL in the period 1992-1997.
Project financing
25.   Table 5 provides the estimated and actual project financing scheme, even though
the total project costs remain unclear and only an approximate estimate is provided5
Because of the difficulties encountered in the course of implementation, the Bank's
procurement requirements and lending terms and the relative ease of ESVAL to access
local capital markets, the management of ESVAL canceled the loan after disbursing
US$33.2 million. As a result the Bank's participation in the financing of the (incomplete)
project was reduced from 35% to an estimated 21%.
26.   The bulk of the disbursement was done in the three years (FY 93-95) when about
US$32 million was disbursed; it is noteworthy to mention that by June 1995, the loan had
disbursed 94% of what was projected at appraisal; this obviously does not mirror the
4 The investments made by ESVAL on the collector from October 1995 to June 1997 are not known. In
this report, the additional cost of completing the collector (under the modified design) is estimated
at US$60 million.
ESVAL did not provide actual investment data in its final report.



10
progress of the physical works but rather reflects the cost overruns of the Vifia del Mar -
Valparaiso contract.
27.   The original allocation of the loan proceeds by category was based on the
assumption made during project preparation (1989) that the civil works and the equipment
for the major components would be contracted separaltely. However, in most cases,
ESVAL included in the civil works contracts the acquisition of related equipment and
materials to ensure better coordination between supply and installation. Thus the
allocation of finds between these categories had to be adjusted accordingly (Table 7).
E.    Project Results
Project objectives
28.   The project objectives were not met at the time: when ESVAL decided to cancel
the balance of the loan (June 1997). Although the Borrower is working towards the
completion of the main collector at a cost which is maniy times more than originally
appraised (for a drastically modifiea1 design), the water component has suffered significant
delays and has been reprogrammed for the 1996-2001 investment period. In terms of
actual achievements the construction of the (emergency) new outfall at the Vina del Mar
location at the end of 1996 has dramatically improved the sanitary conditions of the
beaches in that location, with little or no improvement in the Valparaiso and Conc6n
areas. Moreover, ESVAL does not consider this solution as the optimal situation and the
main project objective will be reached only when the complete system is in operation
(expected in December 1998).
Physical results
29.   As a result of the complications of the Viiia del Mar-Valparaiso collector and the
delays in operationalizing the OECF component, most of the physical targets have not
been yet achieved. Table 4 shows the components that have been completed and those that
are yet to be completed or even initiated. Details of investments in replacement of facilities
and other improvements financed from ESVAL's own sources have not been reported to
the Bank and remain unquantifiable; therefore most achievements are gauged in relation to
the original project scope.
30.   Water Supply. As a result of the decision of ES VAL to request the cancellation of
the OECF loan in late 1995 which was to finance a large part of the water supply
improvements, to date, of all the works included in the project scope, only few have been
completed: the wells at La Calera, the water treatment plant in Conc6n, and the
operational improvement of the sectors No. 8, 12 and 1 5. The works at the Poza Azul
reservoir were completed with ESVAL's own funds in January 1995. It is noteworthy to
mention that the Conc6n plant was redesigned and its capacity was doubled from the
original 500 I/sec. With respect to water distribution, two storage tanks were constructed



11
and some network improvement was done. From the initial scope, only about 30% of the
water supply component were implemented until June 1997.
31.   Sewerage: In this component, with the exception of the Vifia-Valparaiso collector
which is still under construction and the Conc6n system whose construction still awaits a
definition of the solution, most sub-components have been completed, namely: the
collectors Quilpue-El Salto, Reiiaca-Vifia del Mar, and the pumping stations in Vinia del
Mar and Valparaiso.
32.  Institutional component: under this component, a technical cooperation twinning
arrangement was envisaged to permit exchange of knowledge and technology in the area
of reduction of unaccounted for water. The water company of the state of Parana
(Brazil), SANEPAR, was recommended by a consultant hired by ESVAL. After a few
exchanges of staff an agreement was signed for fuller interchange of experience. The main
objective was to improve the commercial aspects of ESVAL's operations as well as the.
quality of service. The program, however, was never initiated for its high cost and the
prospects for ESVAL's privatization. Under the institutional component a new client
cadastre was completed, the objective of which was to update the client database and to
optimize the meter reading routes.
33.   Consultancies: the environmental monitoring study was partially completed and
provided useful information on the marine conditions in Vifia del Mar and Valparaiso;
specifically the study showed that following the construction of the 1500m outfall in Vifia
del Mar, practically all beach contamination had disappeared. The consultancy on water
conservation plan was cut short after it was implemented for 18 months.
34.   Operationalperformance: from an operational view ESVAL's performance has
been satisfactory. Although during the 1991-1996 period the unaccounted for water has
remained above 41% -peaking at 44% in 1993- because of the non-execution of the OECF
component, preliminary results for 1997 indicate that this important indicator for
operational efficiency has dropped to 38.8% and showing a trend for further decline. At
appraisal it was projected that the UFW would be reduced to 37% in 1996. On water
production and use, the conservation measures appear to have had a positive impact;
production after increasing from 139.8 million m3 in 1991 to a peak of 149.3 million in
1993 has been dropping steadily and has reached about 134.3 million in 1996. Similarly
the water sold per connection is declining from a high 23.9 m3 per month to 21.7m3 per
month in 1996 and is expected to remain at that level, partially explained by the drop in
the number of people in a household, water conservation measures and increases in tariffs.
On indicators like service coverage, ESVAL's was able to meet or even surpass targets set
at appraisal. Mcreover, ESVAL seems to have achieved significant productivity gains as
measured by the number of employees for 1000 connections; the level of this indicator has
consistently dropped from 3.3 in 1991 to 3.0 in 1997 and is projected to drop to a level of
2.8 in the year 2000. It is noteworthy to indicate that a turnaround in operational
performance has been noted since 1996 when a number of actions have been taken by
management. Among these actions, the most important ones are the creation of the Unit



12
for the Control of Water Losses, the Unit for the Control of Operational Performance, the
adoption of new operational criteria, new organizational structure for operations based on
processes (e.g. treatment, storage, distribution, etc.) rather than geographic areas. On the
commercial side, a new system was put in operation in January 1995 with direct links
between ESVAL headquarters and the regional offices including the assignment of single
identifying code for each customer to facilitate information management and client service.
Financial performance
35.   The financial position of ESVAL is in accordance with targets. The operating ratio
(operating expenses/operating revenues) improved from 91.7% in 1991 to 70.1% in 1996.
Likewise the working ratio (operating expenses minus depreciation/operating revenues)
changed from 70.2% to 58.1% in the same period. The rate of return increased from 1.2
to 7.9 in 1996, a significant improvement over the rates projected at appraisal. However,
these rates are projected to decline over time to reach 5.6% in 2000. The accounts
receivable position, expressed in terms of average monthly sales showed improvement
over the life of the project dropping from 2.8 to 2.2 but is still above the appraisal targets.
The minimum 20% contribution to capital investment was surpassed in all years until
1996; however, it is estimated that that percentage will drop substantially in 1997 (to
6.4%) and remain below 20% for the reminder of the projected period. The debt service
coverage ratio has fluctuated from 4.0 to 3.4 between 1991-1996, peaking in 1994 at
13.8; however, the projected value for this ratio drops to 0.7 in year 2000. This is
expected given the large amount of debts being incurred due to the high cost of
completing the works. ESVAL has contracted syndicated loans (US$50 million and
US$21 million) from local banks in the previous 2 years and another loan (US$75 million)
in December 1997 from a group of foreign banks. It should be noted here that ESVAL has
not made any provisions in its financial projections for the costs that might arise from the
legal disputes with its former contractors Consorcio Oceanico and ISEKI, Inc. which
might drastically change its financial position.
Economic reevaluation
36.   As mentioned earlier, a new tariff law reflecting long-term marginal costs of
services was instituted in 1990. The new tariff structure which included 5 groups for water
supply and 4 for sewerage (based on geographic areas) was phased in during a transition
period of four years in which tariffs were adjusted every June. In 1994 a review process
was initiated for setting the tariffs for the period 1995-1999. After lengthy negotiations
between ESVAL and the SSS an overall tariff increase of 25.5% was approved for
ESVAL. As seen in Table 8D, the tariff rate for water grew at a faster pace than
anticipated in the SAR: in the SAR it was anticipated that water rate will be US 31.2
cents/m3 in 1996 while the actual rate had reached US 49.4 cents (in constant 1990
prices). In the same period the sewerage tariffs increased fourfold from US 4.9 cents to
20.1 cents/m3. These rates are defined based on the replacement value of existing
installations, the long-term investment program and predefined service and efficiency
levels.



13
37.   In the appraisal report, the internal rates of return for the water supply and
sewerage components were estimated at 27.4% and 7.0% respectively, taking into
account the new tariff levels. The project's IRR (for all components) was evaluated at
14.6%. For the water supply component, it was assumed that the gradual reduction of the
percentage of unaccounted for water would be the main overall indicator of the success of
the proposed component. Since the water supply component was to large extent (70%)
not implemented, an IRR comparison was deemed irrelevant, especially that the UFW has
only begun to show an improvement in 1997.
38.   However, in the case of the sewerage component, although the main works remain
to be completed and the cost of the main collector (with the modified overall concept and
design) is estimated to reach anywhere between US$80 million and US$100 million when
completed as opposed to the budgeted US$13 million (not considering the results of the
many pending lawsuits), an attempt was made to recalculate the IRR using the following
assumptions: a) the incremental revenues between with-project and without-project from
1991 and onward were assumed to be due mainly to the increase in tariffs to cover the
project's sewerage investments - not additional connections (it is important to note that
the project financed only major collectors and practically no secondary and tertiary
networks); b) revenues due to increase in volume of sewage were removed from the
overall incremencal revenues6; c) the investment costs data were obtained from the last
progress report presented in June 1996 (data up to March 1996); d) the costs of
completing the works on the Vifia del Mar-Valparaiso collector and the Conc6n system
are only best estimates in the absence of final cost data; e) data for operations and
maintenance costs were the same as used in the SAR (ESVAL's operating costs have not
changed significantly forn those assumed at appraisal); f) the system will enter in
operation in 1998; g) replacement costs were assumed to be US$5 million in 2010 (as
compared to the assumption made at appraisal to value it at 55% of the project cost); and
h) the discount rate was 10%.
39.   Based on this analysis the recalculated IRR is 7%, the same as in the SAR. The
revised long run marginal cost (using average incremental cost as proxy) is estimated at
US 20.36 cents/m3 (1990) as compared as 5 cents at appraisal. The reasons for this
increase over SAR estimates are due to higher investment costs and delay in initiating the
use of the system. The combined effect of higher investment costs than appraised and
higher tariffs (adjusted in 1995) has yielded an IRR which is similar to the appraisal
estimate. As in the SAR, the health and environmental benefits were not calculated;
however, the willingness to pay for the new tariffs which reflect the investment program,
is an indication of the valuation of these benefits. To underscore the difficulty of
comparing the IltR of this revised analysis and that of the SAR, it is interesting to refer to
the sensitivity analysis in the SAR which had shown that for a cost increase of 25% the
IRR for the project will be reduced from 14.6% to 9.8%. In the sewerage component
6 The SAR does not indicate how the incremental sewerage revenues were calculated for the with-project
case.



14
alone, the cost of the various subprojects have more than doubled: the current cost
estimate of the component (excluding Conc6n) is of about US$105 million (when fully
completed in December 1998) as compared to the SAR estimate of US$48 million
(including physical and price contingencies and taxes). In tihe case of the Conc6n
subproject - to be initiated late 1998- which includes interceptors, pumping station,
preliminary treatment and an outfall, the estimated cost was about US$9 million while the
current estimate is about US$18 million.
Impact on the poor
40.   Although the project was not designed to target directly the poor, it was expected
to positively impact the quality of service to the low-income neighborhoods which have
suffered from water shortages and low pressures. However, with the delays in the
completion of the water supply component, this would be only partially achieved through
some of the ESVAL-financed activities in the project period. However, during the life of
the project, ESVAL implemented, and the project supported, a new subsidy law to benefit
its low-income customers. In 1990, the new tariff law, besides introducing the concept of
marginal cost, eliminated the water subsidies and replaced them by direct transfers. Under
the new arrangement, an amount of funds is allocated by the GoCh to the Municipalities
for payment to the water companies to cover a portion of the water and sewerage bills
charged to low-income consumers. These beneficiaries are those whose total water
consumption does not exceed a preset volume per month and have to be means tested by
the municipality every three years. The Municipality pays (lirectly to the water company
the portion of the bill covered by the subsidy. Like all water utilities in Chile, ESVAL has
a certain number of subsidies assigned to it and which are transferred to it through the
Municipalities. In 1992, the Fifth Region had 48,000 such accounts (representing 15% of
ESVAL's accounts). The subsidy was applied to 50% of the value of the bill and only to
the first 15m3. The average consumption for this group was 14m3. The Government has
been repeatedly modifying the number of subsidies assigned per region and the amount of
subsidy. In 1996, the number of potentially eligible customers was set at 64,000 for the
Fifth Region and ESVAL had assigned about 97% of these accounts7. These accounts
represented aboui 18% of ESVAL's total customer base. It is to be noted that the current
subsidy is applied to 85% of the value of the bill and for the first 15m3 of consumption.
F.    Project Sustainability
41.   Although the main elements of the projects are yet to put into operation and some
even have yet to be built, ESVAL is expected to adequately operate and maintain the
facilities (mainly the main sewage collection system) once they are built. After the crisis of
the construction of the collector became national news, the GoCh took various actions to
7 The concerns raised by the Bank during appraisal regarding the tedious procedures to identify and
qualify potential beneficiaries did not seem to be warranted as evidenced by the high percentage of
use of the subsidies. ESVAL did not provide any details on the: subsidy program in its final report.



15
bring in specialized expertise to complete the works. It is expected that the new
management will maintain the hired expertise as needed to adequately operate the new
infrastructure. On the other hand, the GoCh has taken concrete steps to privatize ESVAL
within a relativelv short time frame (late 1999, according to press reports). From the
institutional and operational points of view, the existing legal and regulatory frameworks
guarantee the sustainability of the new facilities; similarly the tariff and income support
laws provide sufficient assurance that ESVAL will be able to maintain its financial
performance.
G.   Bank Performance
42.   Overall Bank performance was marginally satisfactory. Project preparation which
consumed about 68 staff-weeks was satisfactory and included a detailed analysis of
ESVAL investment program as well as the financial and economic aspects of the project.
The Bank had recommended at various times the need for ESVAL to strengthen its
project management unit which was later carried out only through repeated Bank
insistence. Bank supervision of the project was uneven. At times, it seemed that the Bank
was involved in selective micro management of some of the project components and less
on other aspects where the Borrower could have used more inputs. The Bank was
weakest in being pro-active in situations where it had spotted potential difficulties, but
acted responsively when dealing with emerging problems. For example, when the
contractor for the collector was showing its lack of experience the Bank quickly identified
a pipe-jacking consulting firm and agreed to its direct hiring by ESVAL. Moreover, when
ESVAL, in an attempt to minimize the disruption of the works after the failure of the
negotiations with the contractor, proposed direct contract negotiations with the
subcontractor, the Bank gave its approval after carefully reviewing the reasons and the
performance of the proposed firm. However, this piecemeal approach to project
implementation problems did not permit a comprehensive reevaluation by the Bank and
ESVAL of the technical and procurement issues that had arisen during implementation. In
this respect, a more comprehensive mid-term review of project implementation would
have been most helpful in recasting project objectives and reassessing engineering
alternatives. Bank supervision lacked a strategy to address the mounting technical and
institutional problems and did not recommend comprehensive actions on the part of the
Borrower, when satisfactory solutions were not forthcoming.
H.   Borrower Performance
43.   The Borrower's performance was mixed. At the initial phase of the project,
ESVAL was able to mobilize itself within a short period of time to launch the various
bidding processes without the typical initial delays that characterize many Bank projects.
However, it became clear that the existing management capacity was not adequate for the
size of the project under execution. It is noteworthy that at appraisal it was clearly
indicated as one of the major issues facing ESVAL, namely its inexperience in dealing



16
with such a large project when it typically carried out an yearly investment program of
US$1 million to US$2 million. The change of managers of ESVAL in late 1995 led to the
loss of much of the institutional memory related to the project and to the deterioration of
the Bank-ESVAL working relationship. ESVAL's new management team, although able
to direct and guide the institution in difficult times under the national spotlight did not
have a clear understanding of the Bank's role and responsibility in project implementation
and at times displayed a disregard for Bank's procurement and financial policies and
guidelines.
L.    Assessment of Outcome
44.   On balance, the project outcome, as assessed at the loan cancellation date (one
year before its oiginal closing date of June 30, 1998), is rated as unsatisfactory. This
rating is mainly due to the failure of the project to achieve the physical targets set at
appraisal: the main component of the sewerage system of Greater Valparaiso, the Vinia-
Valparaiso collector is only scheduled to enter in operation in December 1998 at a cost
many times the estimated value at appraisal. Moreover, the difficulties with the
contractors of the collector have generated legal claims and counterclaims which have yet
to be resolved. The construction of the sewerage system for Conc6n is also delayed until
the latter part of 1998. At the same time, the implementation of many subprojects of the
water supply component have yet to be initiated. The outcome is also unsatisfactory when
measured in terms of the Bank-Borrower relationship which became strained when the
second contractor walked away from the construction of the collector. However, in the
midst this difficult situation, ESVAL was able to carry out some of the water supply
improvement activities (both investment and institutional), which helped to show a positive
impact on its operational and financial performance, especially after 1996. Moreover, the
construction of the outfall at the Vifia del Mar as part of the redesign of the collector in
1996 not only eliminated the pollution problem in the beaches de Vinia del Mar in time for
the summer 96-97 season but also will provide a lasting benefit as an emergency outfall.
J.    Lessons Learned
45.   The main lessons learned from this project are as .follows:
a) Project management. An investment program which is substantially larger than usual
levels should have a project management team staffed with experts who have extensive
experience with similar size and type of projects; since this expertise would not be readily
available within an institution, a professional project management team should preferably
be engaged early on. In the initial phase of the project, ESVAL created a project
management unit and staffed it gradually from within the institution; however, the unit
lacked project managers able to deal adequately with the emerging technical issues and
contract negotiations. It was only in 1996 that a professional team was brought in as
project managers and was able to quickly redesign the collector and implement the works.



17
b) Project financing. Unless the source and amounts of financing of the project are
clearly defined from the outset, any delays in securing the additional financing can
jeopardize the successful completion of the project. In the case of the OECF parallel
financing, the delays caused by the recruitment of the management consultant and the lack
of detailed designs for a number of sub-components led to significant delays in
operationalizing the loan before the new management decided to suspend the loan in late
1995 (the loan has not been formally canceled yet).
c) Engineering designs. Although the designs were prepared by qualified engineering
firms, large and complex projects could benefit from a second opinion/audit by external
reviewers; it is important to ensure that all aspects of such major undertakings are well
studied, especially geotechnical aspects, environmental and social impacts. In the case of
the collector, it was discovered during implementation that the soil conditions were
insufficiently investigated at the time of project design leading to the discovery of too
many obstructions for the pipe jacking technology to work effectively. As for the
environmental impact, although a detailed analysis was carried out during project design
and extensive monitoring was proposed for the period of implementation, a broad public
consultation would have provided a valuable input to the design.
d) Contract execution. It is as important to supervise contract implementation as the
procurement process; the executing agency as well as the Bank should engage specialists
for highly specialized technical work involved in project supervision. It was clear that
ESVAL did not tet the needed advice (from the supervision consultant nor the Bank)
when the contractor proposed the change of construction technology (open trench to pipe
jacking) for less than 10% additional cost and no time extension.
e) Coordination with Municipalities. Municipalities should be consulted before contracts
are tendered to deal with their concerns and remove any objections to the implementation
plans; permits should also be secured in these negotiations and not be left to contractors to
obtain. Legally binding agreements should be signed in order to avoid future political
interference. Moreover, many of the complaints by the Municipality of Valparaiso and
some local groups would have been best addressed within public hearings prior to project
implementation. Under the current environmental classification of projects, this project
would have been classified as an A project and would have benefited from public
consultation.
I) Bank Project Supervision. Project implementation would have benefited immensely
from a more comprehensive mid-term review, especially in terms of finding appropriate
technical and institutional solutions and applying appropriate Bank remedies to redress
continuing implementation difficulties. Moreover, in 1996, at the height of the crisis of the
collector, the Bank should have been more pro-active in dealing with the accusations by
the new management team of the Borrower and political circles. By trying to maintain its
overall good relationship with the GoCh, the Bank was timid in its response and as a result
the public perception of the Bank may have been tarnished.



18
K.   Bank-Borrower Relationship
46.   The relationship between the Bank and the Borrower experienced ups and downs
during the implementation period especially during the difficult times after the collapse of the
negotiations with the second contractor for the collector. Irn the initial phase (1992-1995), the
relationship between the Bank and the Borrower was generally constructive. ESVAL's
management was familiar with Bank procedures and no major difficulties were encountered.
The Bank and ESVAL cooperated to the extent possible in finding adequate solutions when
the problems with the Vifia-Valparaiso collector began to emerge. However, when a new
management team took over in October 1995, relations between the Bank and ESVAL become
sour and at times tense especially when ESVAL management publicly insinuated Bank
responsibility for the problems of the collector. Moreover, a number of articles appeared in the
Chilean press involving the Bank into what had become a serious controversy. During most of
1996, ESVAL tlh-eatened to cancel the loan without taking any action nor providing the Bank
with much information. In early 1997, Bank proposed the possibility of financing on-going
works; after review, it was clear that the procurement procedures used to award these
contracts were not in accordance with Bank guidelines and therefore could not be financed
from the loan proceeds. ESVAL, arguing that it had access to loans on better terms that those
provided by the Bank, requested cancellation of the loan balance as of June 30, 1997.
L.    Consulting Services
47.   The performance of the local and international consultants hired to carry out the
studies, and supervise the civil works was generally satisfactory. The supervision consultant
for the Vifia-Valparaiso collector (whose selection process was rejected by the Bank and
declared misprocured) failed to gauge the consequences of the change proposed by Consorcio
Oceanico to switch the construction method from open-trench to trenchless technology. A few
studies involving consulting services in the project were initiated but canceled before
completion (e.g. Water Conservation Program and Environmental Monitoring of the Marine
Environment - the international component). The consulting services were typically contracted
according to the short list procedure; one exception was for the pipe-jacking specialist (Jason
Consultants) wh;ch was hired directly after being approved. by the Bank.
M.   Project Documentation and Data
48.   The staff appraisal report was well prepared and provided a useful framework for
project supervision and the preparation of this report. The aide-memoires, the supervision
reports also provided a good source for project documentation. ESVAL's semi-annual reports
until 1995 were exceptionally well prepared and included details of various project aspects,
from financial, institutional to technical. However, ESVAL did not provide adequate
information to the Bank after 1995 when relations became strained. ESVAL submitted a final
completion report which provided a good description of the history of the project but was
lacking a number of important details such as costs of the redesigned collector, ESVAL's
investments during project implementation, institutional and economic aspects.



19
Part HI STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial       Partial        Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                     E               E               Cl                E3
Sector Policies                    E              21               E                 a
Financial Objectives               f               21              E                 E
Institutional Development          E              21               E                 E
Physical Objectives                 a              E3El                              El
Poverty Reduction                  E              E                E                 21
Gender Issues                       a              E               E                21
Other Social Objectives             a              E               E                 21
Enviromnental Objectives            a              Es              E                 E
Public Sector Management           E               E               E                 21
Private Sector Development         E               E               E                 2
Other (specify)                    E               E               E                 21
B. Proiect Sustainability             Likely                 Unlikely                 Uncertain
(v/)                     (v/)                     (V)
C. Bank Perfonnance                    satisfactorv         Satisfactory              Deficient
(/)                     (/)                      (/)
Identification                     E                       2                         E
Preparation Assistance             E                       21                        E
Appraisal                          E                       2                         E
Supervision                        E                       E                         21



20
Highly
D. Borrower Performance                       satisfactor     Satisfactory     Deficient
Preparation                                  [C
Implementation                                a              L]
Covenant Compliance                                                          E [l
Operation (if applicable)                      ]             I               I
Hghly                                            Hhly
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactorv   Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
C/              C/               C/                 /



Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan title and number                          Purpose                                    Amount    Year  Status
US$ million
Previous Operations
Water supply project (1832-CH)                 To provide water supply for 700,000 people in  32.3 a/  1980   Closed
Santiago, reduce water losses in other systems
of the country, and help reform the water sector
Second Santiago Water Supply and Sewerage Project  To support the alleviation of sewage disposal    53.7 b/  1986   Closed
and reuse problems and help improve the
operational and financial management of EMOS
Valparaiso Water Supply Reconstruction Project  To help reconstruct the water supply system  6.0       1986   Closed
and prepare plans for the expansion of water
and sewerage networks in Greater Valparaiso
a/ The original loan amount was US$38 million
b/ The original loan amount was US$60 million



22
Table 3: Proiect Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle    Date Planned           Date Actual/
Latest Estimate
Identification                                            May 8, 1989
Preparation                                        November 22, 1989
Pre-Appraisal                                             May 8, 1990
Appraisal                      May 15, 1990        November 27, 1990
Negotiations                                             April 8, 1991
Board Presentation         December 15, 1990             May 28, 1991
Signing                                               August 13, 1992
Effectiveness                                        February 13, 1992
Project Completion         December 31, 1997    Canceled: June 30, 1997
Loan Closing                   June 30, 1998             June 30, 1997



Table 4. Prolect Scope. bnnlementation Schedule and Costs (thousands US$)
IstLoanAmend                              Coneact
SABScope                                      SAR   Fnau  Souc          Stwt      Complefion   Value            Observations                                                      Conrator
Component/Subcomponent                        Cost   OECF/IBRD          Date         Date      As Paid
A. SEWERAGE AND POLLUTION CONTROL
1. Se40nday Collectors
1.1 Gr_YVallaanso                            477      IBBD                                     -             Budget 199
1.2 Limache                                  382      OECF                                                   Budget 1999
2. Main Sewage Collectors
2.1 Quilpume-Vtna del Mar                   1435      IBRD       December'92  Marctd,4        1914                                                                             CoL.etructoraNreyyCiaLtda.
2.2 Vim del Mar-Valparsae o                 g957      IBRD       September'92 December'94   22827            Contract terminated erly                                          Constructora Consorco Ocdnko
Vsi dd Mar- Valparalsa II                        IBRD       April'95      September'95   2979            Contrat teminated early                                           seld Inc
1.3 RXarVins dd Marl                        1317      IBIRD      Decenber'91 Ytbrary'94       1660                                                                             Construcaor inta eaa
ReaKa-Vlna dl Mar 11                              IBRD      May'94        January95       2042                                                                            Ingewll Ltda.
2,4 Playa Ancha                               965     OECF      November'97                    -             Financed with ESVAL fimds
2.5 Alvah                                    457      IBRD      August'96    January'97         793                                                                            Ingecd Ltda.
2.6 Concon                                    S95     OECF                                                   Budget 1998
2.7 CadDO                                    213      IBBD      Auguat'96    January'97        370                                                                             Ingecot Ltda.
3. Sewage Pumping Statins
3.1 VIs del Mr                              5776      IBRD      October93   June'6           11679           Modied dedlat allow pumping to he emergeny out                    Dra _d.
3.2 Vslpar                                 6aos       IBRD       October'93   JueS'96          -             Not ud equpmandntto be used in the new pmpimg xatio in the        DragadOe
Esmalda tun
3.3 Concon                                    76      OECF                                                   Budget 1998
4. Sewage Treatment and Dspos
4.1 BU_tamde treatmetwerl                   4114      1BRD                                     -             Not realzed dueto chadnge In project
4.2 Higuesllas Pant                          4482     OECF                                     -             Budget 1998
4.2 Lmeche treatsent plarn                  3266      OECF                                     -             Budget 1998
B. WATER SUPPLY - GRAN VALPARAISO
1. Production
1.1 CaleraWell                               272      IBRD      December92  December'93        S21           Addinawels dugduetolowyeldfromerIgnalyplnedwell                   Mlr      Conatrucoe
1.2 LiaseWeib                                703      IBRD                                     -             Budget 199S
1.3 Poza Azul Reservoir                      649      IBRD       September'93  Januasy'95      -             Financed with ESVAL funds
1.4 LosAromes Inake Wo&rk                    1496     OECF
2. Transmon
2.1 Los Arnos-Concon Main                    4666     OECF
3. Treatment
3.1 New Cone_ Pbnt                          2860      IBRD       September'93 March'95        2944           Plant capacity hereamd from 0.5 to 0.95 m3fuec
3.2 Rebab    _ fltsaof Old Concow Plant     2279      IBRD                                     -             Not doe
3.3 lsprovo        of Pefiud    Plant        285      IBRD                                     -             Budget 199S
4. Storage and Distibution
4.1 Expanson ofExistig Systems
41.1 Vns ldd Mar                          2327      IBRD       September'92 January'94      1920           ImprovementofRonacoAltoandConconSectors                           Conetructora Selai
4.1.2 Qulpue-Via Alemana                   1055     OECF                                     -             Budget 1998
4.2 New Systems
4.2.1JVmadelMar                             141     OECF                                     -             Budget 1998 (tentative)
4.2.2 Valparaiso                           1592     OECF                                     -             Budget 199S (tentative)
4.2.3 Quil,u^-Vlla Alemana                  493     OECF                                                   Budget 1998 (tentative)
4.3 Improvement of Existing Systems
4,3.1 Via del Mar                          5393     OECF                                     -             Budget 1998 (tentative)
4.3.2 Valpaaiso                            3648     OECF                                     -             Not done
4.3.3 QuilpeeVillaA.mana                   3120     OECF       April'97                      -             Financed with ESVAL finds
INSuTITUIONAL IMPROVEMENTS
I. Prqeratio ef Developnmmt pian               66      IBRD                                                   Financed with ESVAL fnads
Techni  Cooperation and Trabinng            804      IBRD       January'94                      12          InItiated but cut sbort for high costa                            SANEPAR
Cemnmra Swvey                               374      IBRD      November93 January96           584                                                                             Bakovk & Ballc
0 & M Equipment                            47S8      IBRD                                    5160           Vebkcs, Computers, laboratery equiprnent, co-mnation equip.       Varluos



Table 4. Proiect Scope, Implementation Schedlde and Costs (thousands USO
1st Loan Amend.                           Contract
SAR Scope                                     SAP,  Finance Source      Start     Completion   Value            Obseavations                                                      Contractor
Component/Subcomponent                        Cost   OECF / IBRD        Date          Date     As Paid
S. Offce Equpment                            1725      IBRD
E. CONSULTING SERVICES
1. Modtwing ofMarine Sewage Disposal         2649       IBRD                                    1804           Not completed because of deays In the Vlna-Valparalso collector   Local Univerkites & Hakrow
2. Water Supply DealgnsSouthen Coast           323      IBRD                                    -              Financed wlth ESVAL funds
3. Water Suppty Designs-Northern Coast         323      IBRD'                                                  Financed with ESVAL funds
4. StudleL/Designa-Sewerage South C v it       647      IBRD                                    -              Financed with E,.s AL funds
5. StudkvuDe&Ign$ewecageNorth Coast            647      IBRD                                    -              FlnancedwlthESVALfunds
6. EngInwerng and Supervision                 3504  OECF/IBRD                                   3722           Works supervision, OECF management consultants, pilot on          Various
conservation of water
TOTAL BASE COST (December 1990)                87643
Physical Contingencies (10%/.)                  8764
Total Base Cost plus Contingencies             96407
Price Contingencies-Local
Price Continencies-Foreign
Price Ctngaencies-Total                        23499
TOTAL PROJECT COST
bnport Duties (and Consutant Taxes)
TOTAL PROJECT COST with Inport Duties         119906
Value Added Tax (VAT)                          21583
TOTAL COST wt Import Dutles and VAT           141489                                             61231
Note The problems inthe implementation of the Vina-Valparaiso collector have led to the eady termination ofthe two listed contracts (item 2.2); redesign ofthe ollector may cost an additional US$60 million and inchides:
a) a 1500m marine outfall at Vina and pretreatment at the Vina pumping station(estimnated cost 10 mnilon)
b) a 3200  tunndel(the Esmindatuel) toreplacethe edating Bustamente tuumel completionoftheremainingpipejacldinand aplatform at dischargepointatLoznsaarga(estimated costUS$30 milion)
c) a 500m marine ouiulL ai Louan jsain (einsrated coat USS 10 .mllion)
d) ancilary worxs (electical substatioen pretreatmontplant andpulmping sintion wvitain the tunnel, funicular to temove the waste collected at the plant), estimated cost US$10 million.



Table 5. Project Financing (US$ million)
Revised                  Redesign
Scope                    of the Vina-
OECF Loan   (92-97 inv.                 Valparaiso       Project
signed         plan) (a)         (b)    Collector (c)   Canceled
Entity                   SAR    Mar-93          Jul-93       Aug-95   Jun-96             Jun-97
BANK                      50.0    49.8           49.8          49.8       49.8            33.2
ESVAL                     91.5    51.7           74.9          148.4     258.0            123.0
OECF                               39.0          44.1          51.0        1.4             1.4
TOTAL                    141.5    140.5          168.8        249.2      309.2            157.6
Notes:
(a) the new scope covered the time slice investment program of ESVAL for 1992-97; additions were mostly for replacement
investment and new investments in the Aconcagua area; the OECF loan value has increased due to exchange rate movement;
(b) project cost increase due to major cost overruns of the Vina-Valparaiso collector;
the increase of the total investment program costs is also due to the finalization of feasibility studies and the inclusion of the cost of
of these investments which were not included in the original estimates;
(c) the redesign of the Vina -Valparaiso is estimated by Bank staff to cost an additional US$60 million;
data after 1996 are based on Bank estimates; ESVAL has not provided actual investment data in its final report



Table 6: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual (US$ million)
I   FY921    FY931    FY941    FY951    FY961    FY971    FY98
Appraisal estimate                7.6     15.2     24.2     34.0      42.2     47.6     50.0
Actual                                     4.8     14.6     31.9      34.1     36.2    33.2l
Actual as % of estimate                   31.6     60.3     93.8      80.8     76.1     66.4
Date of final disbursement:  March 21, 1997
* On December 30, 1997, the Borrower requested the cancellation of the special account refund from the loan amount.



27
Table 7. Allocation of Loan Proceeds (US$ million)
Category                     Appraisal     May 93      Nov. 94      Final
Civil Works                  27.0         16.7        35.8        28.0
Equipment and Materials      18.0         25.3         7.0        2.4
Consultants' Services        5.0           7.8         7.0        2.8
TOTAL                        50.0         49.8        49.8        33.2
An amount of US$180,000 was canceled on November 25, 1992 for misprocurement
In June 1997, when the Borrower decided to close the project, a total of US$16.8
million was canceled from the original loan amount.



Table 8A: ESVAL'S Financial Statements - Income Statement (Dec. 90. US$ million)
1991               1992               1993               1994               1995                1996        1997        1998        1999       2000
SAR Actual         SAR Actual         SAR Actual         SAR Actual         SAR Actual          SAR Actual              Present Forecast
Operating Revenues
WaterRevenues                                        15.1   14.5        17.2    6.0        19.4   18.5        21.9   21.6        23.7   26.3        24.5   27.8         28.2       29.6        31.0       32.1
Sewerage Revenues                                    2.8    2.6          3.7    3.5         4.8    4.8         6.8    6.3         8.6    8.6          8.9    9.5        10.2       10.6        11.9       12.9
ConnectionFees                                       0.0    0.1          0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0          0.0    0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
ReconnectionFees and Other                            0.8    0.7         0.8    0.7         0.8    0.6         0.8    0.6         0.8    0.8          0.8    1.2         1.2         1.2        1.2         1.2
TotalOperstingRevenues                               18.7   17.8        21.7   20.1        25.0   24.0        29.5   28.5        33.1   35.7        34.2   38.5         39.6       41.4        44.1       46.1
Operting Expenses
Personnel                                            (4.6)   (5.2)      (4.9)  (5.4)       (5.2)  (7.4)       (5.4)   (7.3)       (5.6)   (8.7)      (5.9)   (9.5)      (9.0)       (9.0)      (9.3)       (9.6)
Chemicals                                           (0.5)   (0.5)       (0.5)   (0.5)      (0.5)  (0.5)       (0.5)   (0.4)       (0.5)   (0.4)      (0.5)   (0.3)      (0.4)       (0.4)      (0.4)       (0.4)
Power                                               (2.0)   (1.6)       (2.0)   (1.5)      (2.0)  (1.5)       (2.2)  (1.4)        (2.9)  (1.7)       (3.0)   (1.6)      (1.9)       (1.6)      (1.6)       (1.7)
Maintenance                                          (0.6)   (0.6)      (0.7)   (0.5)      (0.7)  (0.5)       (0.7)  (0.5)        (0.7)   (0.6)      (0.8)  (0.8)       (0.6)       (0.6)      (0.7)       (0.7)
Private Contractors                                  (1.8)  (2.2)       (1.9)   (2.7)      (2.0)  (3.6)       (2.0)  (4.8)        (2.1)  (5.9)       (2.1)  (6.9)       (7.5)       (7.5)      (7.5)       (7.8)
Provision Receivables                                (0.9)  (0.6)       (1.0)   (0.3)      (1.2)  (0.2)       (1.4)   (0.2)       (1.6)   (0.3)      (1.7)   (0. 1)     (0.2)       (0.2)      (0.2)       (0.2)
Administration                                       (1.4)   (1.9)      (1.9)   (2.1)      (2.4)   (2.0)      (2.9)   (2.8)       (3.4)   (2.8)      (4.1)   (3.1)      (3.2)       (3.1)      (3.0)       (3.1)                 k)
Depreciation                                         (4.3)   (3.8)      (4.6)   (3.7)      (5.0)  (3.8)       (5.3)   (3.8)       (5.7)  (4.7)       (6.1)  (4.6)       (4.9)       (5.3)      (5.9)       (7.2)                 
Total Operating Expenses                            (16.2) (16.3)      (17.7) (16.7)      (18.9) (19.6)      (20.5) (21.4)      (22.6) (25.0)       (24.1) (27.0)      (27.7)      (27.7)     (28.6)      (30.6)
Opemtinglncome                                          2.5    1.5         4.1    3.4         6.0    4.4          9.0    7.2        10.5   10.7        10.1   11.5        12.0        13.7       15.5        15.5
Financial Revenues                                    0.6    0.3         0.0    0.3         0.1    0.2         0.0    0.1         0.2    0.0          0.4    O.V 0.2                 0.2        0.2         0.
Financial Expenses                                   (0.5)   (0.9)      (0.8)   (0.4)      (1.2)  (0.3)       (1.7)   (0.2)       (2.2)   (1.2)      (2.4)   (2.0)      (2.8)       (4.2)      (5.6)       (6.2)
NonoperatingIncome (net)                              0.3    0.1         0.3    0.3         0.3    1.2         0.3    0.2         0.3    2.9         0.3    0.3          0.7         0.2        0.1         0.1
EffectofPricelChangesonRevenuesandEquity            (18.5) (17.9)      (19.9) (14.2)      (21.4) (13.8)      (22.8)  (9.8)      (24.3) (10.5)       (25.9)   (8.1)      (8.8)      (11.5)     (12.6)      (13.6)
EffectofPriceChangesonAssetsandLiabilities           18.0   18.0        19.2   14.6        20.6   13.5        22.5   11.3        24.6   12.0        26.8   10.4         11.4        13.7       15.5        17.0
Nonoperating Income                                     0.2   (0.4)       (1.3)   0.6        (1.9)   0.7         (1.8)    1.1       (1.4)   (2.6)      (0.9)   0.8        (0.6)       (2.0)      (2.3)       (2.5)
Income before Taxes                                     2.3    1.1         2.8    4.1         4.1    5.1         7.2    8.2          9.1    8.1         9.2   12.3        11.3        11.7       13.2        13.1
Income Taxes                                            0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0         0.0    0.0         (0.8)   (1.0)      (1.1)   (1.1)      (1.1)       (1.1)      (1.2)       (1.2)
NetlncomeafterTaxes                                     2.3    1.1         2.8    4.1         4.1    5.1         7.2    8.2          8.3    7.0         8.1   11.2        10.3        10.6       11.9        11.9
Cash Dividends                                          2.2    2.2         0.0    0.0         0.0    1.8         0.0    2.3          0.0    2.3         0.0    3.3         3.2         4.8        5.0         5.6
WorkingRatio%                                          63.8   70.2        59.9   64.3        55.9   65.9        51.5   61.4         51.1   56.9        52.6   58.1        57.4        54.2       51.5        50.8
OperatingRatio%                                        86.6   91.7        81.3   82.9        75.8   81.8        69.5   74.8         68.4   70.1        70.6   70.1        69.8        67.0       64.8        66.3
Rate of Return%                                         2.0    1.2         3.1    2.8         4.3    3.5         6.1    4.9          6.7    8.0         6.0    7.9         7.4         7.3        6.7         5.6



Table 8B: ESVAL'S Financial Statements - Balance Sheet (Dec. 90. US$ miDion)
YearendingDecember31             1991             1992            1993             1994            1995            1996       1997      1998      1999      2000
SAR  Actual    SAR  Acuala    SAR  Acual    SAR  Actual    SAR  Actual    SAR  Actual                   Present Forecast
Fixed Assets
GrossPlantinSetvice            170.6  162.3    181.4  166.1     196.0  171.3    208.3  177.6    224.7  187.9     242.4  211.1     227.4    267.3      322.7    370.8
Accumulate Depreciation        (41.5) (38.0)    (46.3) (41.5)    (51.5) (43.8)    (57.0) (46.4)    (63.0) (50.7)    (69.4) (55.8)    (59.1)    (62.6)    (66.4)    (71.1)
NetPlantinService              129.1  124.3    135.1  124.5    144.5  127.5    151.3  131.2    161.7  137.2      173.0  155.3     168.3    204.7    256.3    299.7
WorkinPrress                     2.1   2.1        5.8   4.9       9.3  13.8       17.2  33.3      21.9  38.9      1V.9  39.9       74.2      75.6      54.2      34A
NetFixedAssets                 131.2  126.3    140.9  129.5     153.8  141.3    168.5  164.5    183.6  176.2    190.8  195.2    242.6       280.3    310.5      334.1
CurrentAssets
Cashand Short Term Investment    0.5   0.2      (0.8)   1.5      (2.2)   0.7     (1.9)   0.2      (1.2)   4.1      0.0   2.7        0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6
Accounts Receivable (net)        3.2   4.4        3.6   5.1       4.2   6.7       4.9   7.0        5.5   8.1       5.7   7.7        8.1       8.4       8.9       9.3
lAaterials and Supplies          1.3   0.6        1.3   0.7       1.4   0.7        1.4   0.6       1.5   0.9       1.6   0.7        0.8       0.9       1.0       1.1
Other                            0.4   0.4       0.4   1.2        0.4   1.0       0.4   1.0        0.5   0.6       0.5   0.9        0.9       0.9       0.9       0.9
Total CurrentAssets              5.3   5.5       4.6   8.4        3.8   9.1       4.9   8.7        6.3  13.6       7.7  12.1       10.5      10.8      11.4      11.9
OtherAssets                        0.1   0.2       0.1   0.6        0.1   0.9       0.1   1.1        0.1   3.5       0.0   4.7        6.0       7.4       8.8      10.3
Total                            136.7  132.0    145.6  138.5     157.7  151.3    173.5  174.3    189.9  193.2    198.6  212.0    259.1       298.5    330.7    356.2
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Net Worth                         74.0  73.5      65.9  69.6       60.4  65.7      59.0  66.5       58.9  66.7      58.6  71.3       78.3      80.3      86.6      91.9
Montday Corection                 52.0  50.2      63.3  60.7       73.4  67.8       82.6  73.5      91.6  76.8      100.6  80.8      84.8      89.0      93.4      98.1
Long Term Liabilities
Long Term Debt                   7.5   4.0       12.8   3.1      19.9  11.9      27.5  26.6       30.8  36.0      31.3  39.0       73.9      99.3    102.9    128.1
Other                            0.0   0.8       0.0   1.4        0.0   1.1       0.0   1.1        0.0   1.1       0.0   4.1       10.8      14.1      18.8      21.9
TotalLongTermLiabilities         7.5   4.8      12.8   4.5       19.9  13.1      27.5  27.7       30.8  37.1      31.3  43.2       84.6     113.4    121.6      150.0
CuIrent Liabilities
Accounts Payable                 1.3   1.4        1.7   1.0       2.0   1.1       2.3   2.7        2.5   5.5       2.0   6.3        4.8       5.2       5.7       5.9
CurrentPortionLongTermDebt       0.5   0.5       0.5   0.5        0.5   0.5       0.5   0.4        4.3   1.8       4.1   5.0        3.2       7.2      20.0       6.7
Short Term Loans                 0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Other Curent Liabilities         1.3   1.6        1.4   2.2       1.5   3.1        1.7   3.6       1.8   5.3       2.0   5.6        3.5       3.4       3.4       3.6
Total CunratLiabilities          3.2   3.5       3.6   3.7        4.0   4.7       4.4   6.6        8.6  12.6       8.1  16.8       11.4      15.9      29.1      16.2
Total                            136.7  132.0    145.6  138.5     157.7  151.3    173.5  174.3    189.9  193.2      198.6  212.0    259.1     298.5     330.7    356.2
DebtV(Debt+Equity) %               6.0   4.1        7.3   3.7      13.2   9.2       16.5  16.7      18.9  21.3       18.2  24.0      35.0      41.6      44.0      45.2
CurrentRatio                       1.7   1.6       1.3   2.3        0.9   1.9       1.1   1.3        0.7   1.1       1.0   0.7        0.9       0.7       0.4       0.7



Table 8C: ESVAL'S Financial Statements - Sources and Uses of Funds (Dec. 90. US$ million)
Year                                1991            1992             1993             1994             1995             1996       1997      1998      1999      2000
SAR    Acaul   SAR  ActAl        SAR Acta         SAR Acul         SAR  Actual     SAR  Acual             Present Foecast
Net opquimg %come                           2.5   1.5       4.1   3.4        6.0   4.4        9.0   7.2       10.5  10.7       10.1  11.5      12.0      13.7       15.5      15.5
D gia    n adAm otzation                    4.3   3.8       4.6   3.7        5.0   3.8        5.3   3.8        5.7   4.7       6.1   4.6        4.9       5.3       5.9        7.2
N       _apaat  ince (net)                  0.8   OA        0.2   0.7        0.1   1.4        0.2  (0.2)       0.4  (2.9)      0.6   0.4        (0.5)     0.0       0.3       0.3
Ta and Dividends                           (2.2)  (2.2)     0.0   0.0        0.0  (1.8)      (0.0)  (2.3)     (0.8)  (3.3)     (1.1)  (4.4)    (4.2)     (5.9)      (6.2)     (6.8)
GIntiand CuhGaetation                       5.4   3.5       8.9   7.9       11.1   7.7       14.5   8.6       15.8   9.2      15.8  12.2       12.2      13.1      15.4       16.2
Im : Amoutzaio                             (0.5)  (0.4)     (0.4)  (0.4)    (04)  (04)       (0.4)  (04)      (OA)  (0.3)      (3.5)  (1.5)    (1-9)      (2.7)     (6.2)    (17.1)
Iatamestlxpau                           (0.5)  (0-4)    (0.8)  (0.6)     (1.2)  (03)      (1.7)  (0.2)     (2.2)  (1.2)     (2-4)  (2.0)    (2.8)     (4.2)      (5.6)     (6.2)
Netlemal ChGenezien                         4.4   2.6       7.7   6.9        9.5   7.0       (2.4)   7.9      13.2   7.6       9.8   8.6        7.5       6.1       3.7       (7.1)
WkdingCopitalNeeds                          0.1   0.0      (0.4)  (1.6)     (0.5)  (0.7)     (0.8)   1.0      (0.7)   3.2     (1.0)   1.1      (3.6)      (0.1)     (0.2)     (0.2)
OdwrAset andLiabilities Needs               0.0   0.4       0.0   0.3        0.0   0.2        0.0  (0.2)       0.0  (2.2)      0.0  (1.2)       (1.2)     (1.3)     (1.3)     (1.4)
Intanal ContbnutiontoDnveslmA               4.5   3.1       7.3   5.6        9.0   6.4       11.7   8.7       12.5   S.6       8.8   8.6        2.6       4.8       2.2       (8.6)
lneszmetCoast, IBRDP/flnacedProject         8.6   0.0      12.9   2.5       16.1   9.5       18.1  16.8       18.8  11.0      11.4  11.3       30.8      26.6       8.6       5.5
OdirWoub                                    1.0   4.4       0.8   2.7        1.0   4.8        1.0   6.0        1.2   4.1       1.4   6.7        7.8       6.5      17.3       16.7
Camdibuted nvestments                       0.2   0.5       0.2   0.3        0.2   0.0        0.2   0.0       0.2   0.0        0.2   0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0 
Invami4nLitI Sur                                                   0.0              0.0              0.0             0.0              2.7       6.0       3.0       4.3       2.8
Subtotal bntments                           9.8   4.9      13.9   5A        17.3  14.3       19A   22.8       20.2  15.2      13.1  20.7       44.6      36.1      30.1      25.0
Cuuitalizsd Intenest                        0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0        0.0   0.8        0.0   1.5        0.0   1.2       0.0   0.9        2.0       2.4       2.4       2.8
Ttal Invesnent Cost                         9.8   4.9      13.9   5A        17.3  15.1       19A   24.3       20.2  16.4      13.1  21.6       46.6      38.5      32.5      27.9
RequiredFinancing                           5.3   1.9       6.6  (0. 1)      8.3   8.7        7.7  15.6        7.7   7.7       4.3  13.0       44.0      33.7      30A       36.5
Diauz nt IBRD Loan                          3.3   0.3       5.2   0.0        6.6   8.1        7.4  10.4        7.8   5.2       5.0   0.5        0.8       0.0       0.0       0.0
Disbursements_ Co-Financier Loan            0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   0.5       0.0    OA        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Disburements, Futr Loans                    0.0   0.0       0.0   0.0        0.0   0.0        0.0   4.7       0.0   5.7        0.0   8.4       32.5      30.7      23.2      30.7
TotalLoans                                  3.3   0.3       5.2   0.0        6.6   8.1        7.4  15.1       7.8  11.4        5.0   9.2       33.3      30.7      23.2      30.7
ConsumerContributions                       0.2   0.5       0.2   1.1        0.2   0.0        0.2   0.0        0.2   0.0       0.2   0.0        3.0       0.0       3.0       3.0
Aporte Ivershn Litoral Sur                                         0.0       6.8   0.0               0.0             0.0              2.7       6.0       3.0       4.3       2.8
TotalExtemalFinancing                       3.5   0.8       5.4   1.1       (1.5)   8.1       7.7  15.1       8.0  11.4        5.2  11.9       42.3      33.7      30.4      36.5
Chnge in Cash                              (1.8)  (1.0)     (1.1)   1.2      0.0  (0.5)       0.0  (0.5)       0.3   3.6       1.0  (1.0)      (1.7)      0.0       0.0       0.0
Debt Service Coverage (times)               5.4   4.0       7.3   7.8        6.9  10.7        6.9  13.8       6.1   5.9        2.7   3.4        2.6       1.9       1.3       0.7
StandardContributiontolnvestment%         47.1  69.9       53.8  108.2      61.0  42.7       61.0  35.9      62.8  52.7       68.7  45.6        6.4      13.5       7.7      (34.2)
CovenantedContributiontolnvestment%        51.0  90.6      53.2  71.8       61.9  38.5       61.9  42.7       65.1  48.9      74.0  18.8        9.7      10.9    (12.0)       18.8



Tabb 8D. Eco1kmic Analysis
Woler caim               Sewae raw                   Sew. a % of WVa rafe
SAR AaUh          SA         Ace    Crgae, %          SAR         Adu
131                      20.7      21.7        4.8        4.9        Zo6%         23%          23%
1"$                      2.2       25.6       6.1         6.8       11.48%        26%          27%
1066                     25.8      27.4        7.8        a7         1t.54%       30%          32%
134                      29.1      33.4        I          12.1       10.00%       38%          36%
"es                      31.1      45.4       13.8        185        34.06%       44%          41%
1"                       31.2      49.4       13.8        20.1      45.65%        44%          4i%
1667                                50                    2D.9                                 42%
I w* vahudue .18.wwagec.ag,ant(fPM  cea
1          1l62       1663          1694        1995         1116         1367         1996        1m6          2060         21          2602   2003426
Swerg Volune (mIdIn m3)                  64.91      65.96       69.63        71.29       71.89        73.41        76.56        80.05       83.59         86.74       90.46        93.98       97.09
0          0            0           0            0            0         80.06      83.59         86.74       90.46        93.96       97.09       t
Incr.mentevoemimlUeiom3)                             1.05        4.72         6.38        8.98         850         11.65         15.14      1.68          21.83       25.55        29.07       3218
TurS(SeWereIUac.et.                         4.9      680         8.70         2.10       1&50         20.10        20.90        21.W        22.50         23.40       23.40        23.40       23.40
Sewesp   Rev.mm                      $26G0,0000   3,500,000  64,800,000    S6,300,000   68,600,000    59.500,000   S10.200,000   S10,600,000  $11,900,W0    S1X900,000  $14,500,000  $16,000,000  $17,600,0W
Reveue   duet.l.saw.colktledd                     $71,604    S410,466     S771.568   S1.291,11t    61,708,299   S6434,641    S3.179,190   S4,20X775    65,107,966   65,978,466   S6,80Z146   67.529,886
Nerevenues dueto twlff  Sn 3,428,396  64,389.534    S5,528,432   67,308,885    67.791,701    S7,765,359    67,420,680  $7,697,225    67,79X014   $8,521,534   69,197,854  610,070,114
Inenm    Rre n                                   $6828,396  61,789,534    $2,928,432   64,708,885    65,191,701    65,165,359    $4,820,810  65,097,225    65,19XO14   65,921,534   S6,597,854   $7,470,114
hwexbne ,t (datfrom pgog. rep. Much16           St,869,000  67,00WZW0    $15,982,000  $10,655,000    64,793,000  613,666,000    63,243,000    S323,000
Addflon  cos. (esima)                                                              620,000,000   $2(.0DO,0    620,0000
come"                                                                                                                       S $9,000.000   69,00,000
Tetd l_nvedme                                   $1,869,000  $7,002,00   $15,982,000  630,655,000   624,793,000    33,668.000   6Z243,0W   69,323,000
hworentalCM s(frm  AR)                                                                                                      $1,367,000   $1,399,000    61,501,000   $1,521,000   $1,541,000   $1,562O,0
Not eah flow                                   (61,040.604) 6$521Z466) ($13,053,568) (625,946,115) ($19,801,299) (628.500,864)   (78,789,190) (65,624,775)   S3,691,014   64,400,534   65,05S,854   65,906,114
IIU         7.10%                                         NPV (volum)               510,199,723 m3 w(as wme sewag iN flow in the ncorssteIng 1996)
NPV (Iete)               689.70ZO59
NPV (OUQ)                S14,79.767
Macu cadt (Ucns   "6M



Table 9: MONITORING INDICATORS
1991        1992         1993         1994         1995        1996  1997  1998  1999   2000
SAR   Actl SAR  Actal SAR   Actual SAR  Acta SAR  Actual SAR   Acuala              Preent Forecast
OPERATIONS
Waterpxoacei(3million)                               139.6  139.8  141.5  143.4  142.1  149.3  139.1  137.3  138.4  136.2  141.3  134.3  128.9  133.6  138.7  142.3
Watersold (P3 mIin)                                   83.1  79.7  84.6  80.6  85.5  85.4  85.6  87.7  86.9  88.8  89.7  87.2  89.0  93.0  97.4  100.9
Sewea  sold (M3 mion)                                 67.3  64.9  6S.9  66.0  70.1  69.6  70.6  71.3  70.6  71.9  73.2  73.4  76.6  30.0  83.6   86.7
Unaccoutidforwater(%)                                 40.5  43.0  40.2  43.8  39.8  44.3  38.5  41.9  37.2  41.3  36.5  41.3  37.9  37.2  36.6   35.9
Waft sld per ceci (M3 permonth)                       24.9  23.9  24.7  23.4  24.3  23.8  23.6  23.6  23.4  23.1  23.5  21.7  21.0  21.2  21.5   21.7
Water conneniyenr end (1000)                         281.9 281.9  289.7  293.3 297.5  303.6 305.5 315.2 313.5  326.5  321.7  344.3 360.3 370.9 382.7  393.6
Seice coage, water, (%)                               95.9  95.9  96.1  96.1  96.4  96.4  96.6  96.6  96.8  96.8  97.4  97.4  98.0  98.6  99.3   99.9
Seweg conneiosiyear-end (1000)                       222.3  222.0 230.1  233.7 238.3  242.1  246.8  252.9 254.5 263.8  262.5  292.7 306.8  317.2  329.1  341.8
Serice covg, sewenge, (%)                             82.8  82.8  83.3  83.3  83.9  83.9  84.5  84.5  85.1  85.1  86.0  86.0  86.9  87.8  88.7   89.7
Medac watr con_ctonaw  connections (%)                99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3  99.3   99.3
Woddugmetest te-(%)                                   99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1  99.1   99.1
Ehnploeealooo waer connections                         3.4   3.3   3.4   3.2   3.4   3.2   3.4   3.1   3.4   3.1   3.4   3.0   3.0   2.9   2.9    2.8
Consumers with drct income sbsidy (%)                 15.0  15.0  20.0  20.0  20.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0  23.0   23.0
FINANCIAL
Aagel nvestent/ connection (constant 1990 US-$)      676.5  644.2 698.0 630.2 731.7 627.7  754.4 625.1 791.1  636.7  829.7 662.8 681.9 777.1  906.7  1008.3
AageReveue3  sold (constt end 1990 US-Cents)          25.5  26.6  29.3  32.4  33.6  36.1  40.2  45.5  44.9  63.9  45.0  69.5  71.0  71.1  72.7   73.6
Avera  WaterRate/M3  sold (consat end 1990 US-Cents)  20.7  21.7  23.2  25.6  25.8  27.4  29.1  33.4  31.1  45.4  31.2  49.4  50.0  50.2  50.2   50.2
AvageSewaugeRaWra^ soldd dl7ovtU W                     -S 4.S   4.9   6.1   6.8   7.8   87   11.0  12.1  13.8  18.5  13.8  20.1  20.9  21.0  22.5   23.4
Avg CosM3 sold (constant end 1990 US-Cents)           24.5  27.0  26.2  29.4  27.7  32.0  30.0  36.5  32.7  47.9  33.8  52.2  52.7  50.5  49.8    51.4
Aage Pesond Cost/M3 sold (contnt end 1990 US-Cents)    7.0   8.6   7.3   9.5   7.6  12.0   7.9  12.5   8.2  16.6   8.2  18.3  17.2  16.4  16.1   16.1
WokingRatio                                           63.8  70.2  59.9  64.3  55.9  65.9  51.5  61.4  51.1  56.9  52.6  58.1  57.4  54.2  51.5   50.8
Opeat igRao                                           86.6  91.7  81.3  82.9  75.8  81.8  69.5  74.8  68.4  70.1  70.6  70.1  69.8  67.0  64.8   66.3
Debt/(Debt+Equity) %                                   6.0   4.1   9.3   3.7  13.2   9.2  16.5  16.7  18.9  21.3  18.2  24.0  35.0  41.6  44.0   45.2
Debt Sawice Coverage (times)                           5.4   4.0   7.3   7.8   6.9  10.7   6.9  13.8   6.1   5.9   2.7   3.4   2.6   1.9   1.3    0.7
Con_ibutionto Ivent(%)                                47.1  69.9  53.8  108.2  52.8  42.7  61.0  35.9  62.8  52.7  68.7  45.6   6.4  13.5   7.7  -34.2
Colection Ratio (days)
Water and Sewerage                                  63.0  89.6  61.0  91.6  61.0  101.5  61.0  89.5  60.0  82.4  60.0  73.2  74.5  74.1  73.7   73.4
Hydrants Maitenance                                 75.0  75.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0  60.0   60.0
Rates OfRetum (%)
Onavwragenetassetwinoperation                        2.0   1.2   3.1   2.8   4.3   3.5   6.1   4.9   6.7   8.0   6.0   7.9   7.4   7.3   6.7    5.6
On equity                                            1.8   0.9   2.2   3.2   3.1   3.9   5.3   6.0   5.7   9.8   5.2   7.6   6.5   6.4   6.8    6.4
Didd yield                                           1.8   1.8   0.0   0.0   0.0   1.4   0.0   1.6   0.0   1.6   0.0   2.1   1.9   2.9   2.8    3.0
ECONOMIC
Annual AveW  InflationRate (%)                              22.9         15.7         12.4         10.5         8.5          7.4   6.3   6.0   6.0    6.0
Average Exchange Rate (CH S/US S)                          350.9        363.0        404.2        420.2       396.8        413.5  420.4 433.7  448.3  463.0



33
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff InDuts
Staff Week              US$ Dollars
Project Preparation                67.4                   $156,481
Project Supervision                95.8                   $332,246
ICR Preparation                     6.6                    $10,980
Total                             169.8                   $499,707



Table 11. Bank Resources: Missions
Number of   Days In      Specialty        Financial      Management    Availability
Stage of Project Cycle              MonthlYear    Persons       Field    Representation    Performance     Performance       of Funds
Idkriaion                             May-89          2          10           E, F
E, F
Nov.-89         2          14          E. F
P1__"                                  May-90         2          16           E. F
Nov.-90         3          16         E, F, L
Board Approvl ftroh Effecvene         Oct.-91         1           2
1                     Jun-92          2          8           E, F              2                1              1
2                     Mar-93                                                   2                1              2
3                     J1-93           1          8            F                2                1              2
4                     Dec93           1          9            E                2                1              2
5                     Oct-94          2          7           E.F               2                2              2
6                     Jul-85          1          a            F                2                2              2
7                     Nov-95          3          4         E. F, C(E)          2                3              2
8                     Jan-97          1          2            E                2                3              2
9                     Apr-97          1          2            E                3                2              2
ICR Preparation                       Dec-97          1          2             E
E=Engineer;  F=Financial Analyst;    C=Consultant   L=Legal



Table 12: Studies Included in the Project
Study               Purpose                          Status                    Impact of Study
Client cadastre for  To update the client information and  Completed on January 1996   An improved database of client and
Greater Valparaiso    optimize tiue meter reading routes    by Consulting firm Bakovic y  connection information and reduction
Balic                     in terms of costs of meter reading
Environmental       Carry out the monitoring ex-ante    Partially completed; It was    The ex-ante study has established a
Monitoring Program   and ex-post of the quality of the  carried out a consortium of   baseline for the comparison after the
marine environment and in the urban three universities and  sewerage system is completed. Study
streams                         international input by UK  has shown the high potential for
firm Halcrow              dispersion in the area of discharge;
data collected after the construction
of the marine outfall in Vina del Mar
(not in the original plan) shows that
the contamination of the beaches has
been eliminated.
Water Conservation    To implement a pilot project in three Contract was signed 11/94   inconclusive for premature
Plan                socio-economically different areas   for 4 years but was cut short  termination of contract; no results
to assess the use and loss of water   in 3/96              have been reported by ESVAL



Table 13: Status ofLeil Covenants
Lonl                                                        Original     Pevied
Agreewnent  Credit W     Tant derere    Covernt Ci_le (al   Statu          FuLfill     Fulfill                Decription of Covenant                                 Comm
Date        Date
Lotn       3331-CH   3.03 (a)                             9      0       30/Sept94               Carry out mid-tm rm ev w                       Done In October 1994
3.03 h b I                          9      c                               Furnish to Bank a report on mid-term progrem   Peceived in September 1994
4.03 la)                            6      a                              Take out and maintain pproprite Innee
4.03 (b I                           6  e           30/Sepl91    31/M1r/92  Contrast ditonal inurance
6.01 (a )                           1      a                               Estabisbh ideifiable accounta for proyact
6.01 lbIlili                        1      e                               Furnish to Bank wmr port of financial
smenta projec t   s, peoa a          t on
April 30 of each yew.
5.01 I e I t IV)                    1      c                               Include SOEs in annei audit report each April 30
5.02 (a I                           4      c                               Produce funds from Internal aour'ea equvivaent to
at east 20% of waxud averag of capital
expenditures of current no coming FY.
5.02 (b I                           4      a                               Review projetIons for compliance with 5.02 (a)
In curent and coming FY on September30 of each
5.02 (aI                            4      a                              Take all necesary meaures to meet 6.01 la), If  Not redevant as 6.02 (a) and Ibl compiled with
6.02 (bi IndIcates non-compliane.
5.03 1 a                            2      c                               Not incur any debt beyond a debt to equity ratio
of 6040.
5.04                                2      c                               Adjust Its tariffs by not les than the maxtimum  Adjustments In 1996
_______________          levels stipulated by le"Isition on July 1 annually.
LOAN                 6.06                                 2      c                               Make avoilabe any funds from Intemal soures
not needed to fina   at least 20% of Project I In
case of cofirancing either to pay dividends or to
make additionr Irnvstments
Schedule 6.1 Ia)                    5      c      3018Sp/91                Furnish to Bank action for improving           Management coat accounting, perswoel
operational nd administrativ efficency         management.
Schedule 6.1 (bi                    6      a      30/Sep/91               Furnish to Bank action plan for Imprvirn
organiaiona strtucture
ScheduLe 6.1 lel                    6      c                              Carry out under la)
Carry out under Ibl
Schedule 5.2 (ai                   10      o      301Sep/91   311/May/92  Furnish to Bank training plan
Schedule 5.2 Ibl                   10      c                              Carry out plan under 2 ial                    Initiated but not completed
Schedule 6.3                     10.4      c                              Estabiish and fund Project Coordination Unit
National consultants hired; contract with International
Schedule 6.4 (a)                    6      c      30/Sep/91   31/May/92  Furnish to Bank Environmental Monitoring Program   consultants *ienod in February, 1996 but cut short.



Table 13: Status of Lerai Covenants
Loarn                                                       Original     Rvevisd
Agreement  Credit N0     Tedt Peference    Covenant Clas leas)   Status    FuDfill     Fulfill                Desription of Covenant                                 Comments
___ ___                 _ ___  ___ __  __                  at         Da e    _ __ ___  ___ __ ___  __ ___ ___  __ ___  __    __ ___ __ ___  ___ __ ____Date____Date__
Schedule 6.4 lb)                    6      e       30/Apr/92              Carry out above program                        Cut short after delay In the conwtrtion of the collew
Schedule 6A4 l)                     a      c                              Adjust above program * needed
Schedule 5.6 (a)                   13      c                              iReview etteetivenes of direct income support
system
ScheduLe 6.5 6b)                   13      c                               Adjust above system as needed                  Government incrased direct support
ScheduLe 5.6 (a)                   10      c                              Take all actions needed to meet ratios rd
performance indioators included in the snn to
schedulie 6
LOAN                  Schedule 5.6 (ib)                   2      c                               Submit to Bank 6-year finncial nd operation
prolections each September 30
Annac to Scheduie 6                 6      c                               Submit to Bank ratios and indicators of financial
and operational performaence
GUARANTEE 3.02                      6      c       30/Jun/93   31/Decl94  Carry out study on environmental Impact arnd
propose criteria for effluent discharges into
Acoenaua River.
GUAPANTEE 3.03                     1 3     c                               Take measures If needed to modify current direct
Income support system.
GUARATEE 3.04                       2      c       1 I/Aug/S11             Enter into Shareholders' Agreement with COPRFO
S.A 2.03                            2      c                               Dividend distribution only after sef-financing
requlrementa of 6.02 and LA. have been met.
Covenant Class
Status:    c          - Complied with                                               1 Accounts/audit
CD         - Compliance after Delay                                      2 Fnancial performance/generate revenus from beneficiarie
NC         - Not Complied                                                3 Flhw and utilization of Project funds
SOON       - Compiarnce Expected In Reassonably Short Time               4 Counterpart funding
CP         - Complied with Partially                                     6 Management aspects of the Project or Its executing agency
NYD        - Not yet Due                                                 6 Environmental covenants
7 rnwoluntarv resettlement
8 indienous people
9 Monitoring review reporting
10 Implementation
11 Sectoral or crossectoral budgetary or other resource alocation
12 Sectoral or cross-sectordi reaulatory/inrtitutional action
13 Other



38
Avuda Memoria
Una misi6n del Banco Mundial conformada por Alex Bakalian visit6 las oficinas de ESVAL en
Valparaiso durante los dias 1 y 2 de diciembre de 1997 con el prop6sito de revisar la preparaci6n del
informe final del pr6stamo 3331-CH. La misi6n agradece las atenciones recibidas por parte del Ing.
Dante Bacigalupo, Gerente General, y de los funcionarics de la empresa que facilitaron el desarrollo
de la misi6n.
La misi6n revis6 con ESVAL la informaci6n basica necesaria para completar el informe final del
Banco segun el modelo enviado a ESVAL anteriormente. La misi6n tuvo la oportunidad de visitar las
obras del Colector Valparaiso en particular los pozos B3, OH-I y el nuevo tunel Esmeralda. El
Banco esta plenamente consciente de la dificultades de preparar un inforrne final cuando el proyecto
en su totalidad no esta todavia completado. Sin embargo, para cumplir con una obligaci6n intema a
su directorio, el Banco tiene que preparar un informe final dentro de seis meses al cerrar un
prestamo.
La misi6n inform6 a ESVAL que se habia iniciado dentro del Banco la preparaci6n del dicho informe
pero faltaba informaci6n actualizada sobre varios temas incluyendo los siguientes:
3 una tabla comparativa del alcance fisico concebido en el informe de evaluaci6n (Staff Appraisal
Report - SAR) y el alcance ejecutado a la fecha de t6rmino de proyecto (Junio 1997) con una
descripci6n de las obras en ejecuci6n y fechas'para las obras a terminar o licitar, incluyendo las
obras del componente del OECF,
* una tabla comparativa de los costos estinados del SAR para cada componente y los costos reales
al termino del proyecto,
* una secci6n sobre la modificaci6n de la obra Colector Valparaiso (descripci6n del proyecto,
componentes, fecha de inicio y termino de varios componentes, licitaciones hechas y para hacer,
costos de obras licitadas y costos estimados para las obras faltantes),
* una secci6n sobre el desempefio de contrato Aguas Quinta (con antecedentes) y el futuro
institucional de ESVAL,
* una secci6n sobre el marco sectorial (leyes y acontecimientos importantes),
* las proyecciones financieras de ESVAL,
* datos basicos para una re-evaluaci6n del analisis econ6mico (volumen de agua y alcantarillado,
ventas, ingresos, costos de inversiones, costos de operaci6n y mantenimiento, etc.)
* una secci6n sobre la politica de subsidio y datos basicos sobre el tema,
* el desempefio institucional logrado durante el periodo del proyecto (actividades y resultados
sobresalientes),
* analisis de indicadores financieros y operacionales, incluyendo un analisis detallado de las
medidas tomadas para el mejoramiento del indice del agua no contabilizada,
* una descripci6n del censo de usuarios y una evaluaci6n del convenio SANEPAR-ESVAL.
La misi6n solicit6 a ESVAL terminar la preparaci6n de este infonne para enviarlo al Banco a mis
tardar el 15 de diciembre de 1997. Junto con el informe, ESVAL enviara diskette con la informaci6n
relevante.
Valparaiso, 2 de diciembre de 1997
Alex Bakalian
Banco Mundial



05/27/1998  16:551    209512                     GM ADM V FINANZAS                  PAM  03.
39
EMPRESA
OE OBRAS SANITARIAS
_OE VALPARAISO S. A.
FIUAL CORFO
Vaiparaiso, 26 de mayo de 1998
091
Sr. Alexander Bakalian
Oficial de Proyects
Finanzas, Sector Privado e tnfratstucwra
Oficina Regional para Amuiica Laina y el Canbe
Banco Mundili
Washington D. C
Ret.: Infonne de Tinmino del Bnco Mmndlal sobre el Pr6stamo BIRF
3331-CH - Proyecto de AguS Potable y Alcautarllado pam Valparaiso
De nuestra consideraci6na
Con respecto al Informe de Termino de la refercncia dtbo seflalar a
Ud. lo siguiente
I.- El Proyecto de Agua Potable y AlcantariLldo de Valparaiso, tal cual file concebido, abarcaba
cuatro componentes do inversi6n: AlcawArillado y Control de la Contamiaciion. Agua Potable,
Desarrollo Institucional y Servicios de Consultorla.
2.- Dicho proyecto, cuyo costo original a abril de 1991 ra de USS 141,5 millones, estaba
financiado por el Banco Mundial (USS 50 millones), OECF de Jap6n (YV 5.480 millones) y fondos
propios de Esval.
3.- A partir de 1994 comenzaron a surgir complicaciones en la constnzcci6n de la principal obra
del componente do alcantarilldo, a saber el Colector Vfila del Mar - Valparaiso.  Dichas
complicaciones se tradujeron on el abandono sucesivo de la obra por dos contratistas extranjeros
(Consorcio Oceanico e Iseki Inc.).
4.- Es asi como la situaci6n tom6 caracteristics de tal gravedad, quo on octubre de 1995, por
instrucciones del Presidente de la Rep.blica, asumi6 una nueva adninistraci6n on Esval,
oncabezada por el Sr. Ministro Vicepresidents de CORPO como Presidente del Dire=orio.



05/27/1558  16:51    209512                      GER ADM Y FINANZAS                  PAGE  02
40
EMPRESA
_ v                                                       0E OBRAS SANITARIAS
__ 09 .1      IDE VALPARAISO S. A.
~ NAT usa  FILIAL COAFO
5.- Una de las tareas prioritarias abordadas por el nuevo Directorio, cuya composici6n se
manliene mayoritariamente hasta hoy, &Te realizar un completo reestudio dc la componente
alcantarillado, liamada Proyecto de Saneamiento dol Gran Valparaiso. Esto se tradujo en:
* Conformacion de una Gerencia de Proyecto con dedicaci6n excdusiva para la
administracion de este proyecto, la cual se intogr6 por un equipo de ingenieros de primer
nivel y con asesoria de firmas de consultoria externas.
* Contralaci6n del Redise?lo del Proyecto con urn consorcio de 2 firrnas de ingenieria, una
nacionat (Cade-ldepe) y otra extrmnjera (Black and Veatch).
6.- A mediados de 1996, al cabo de seis meses de estudio, se reanudaron las obras del Proyecto
de Saneamiento, que difenan sustancialmente del componente de alcantarillado incluida dentro del
provecto financiado por el Banco Mundial.   Dentro de tales diferencias se encuentran las
siguientes:   * ;     
a Cambios en el trazado por el centro de la ciudad de Valparaiso, dado quo existian
problemas con el subsuelo. no detectados en losi estudios originales.
* Construcci6n de un tuanel (TuLnel Esmeralda) bajo los cerros de Valparaiso, que reemplaza
al Tunel BusTamante como salida final del sistema, dada la baia capacidad dc porteo y
estado deficiente de este gItimo.
* Construccion de Dos Emisarios Submarinos, no contemplados originalmente. Uno en la
ciudad do Vitia del Mar. quo comenzo a funcionar en diciombre 1996 y logro
doscontaminar las playas de la zona. El otro eni Valparaiso, por construir, ubicado como
evacuacion final de todo el sistema.
- Incorporaci6n de un sistema de Tratamiento 'Preliminar en Vifia del Mar. previo a la
descarga por el Emisario Submanno en esta ciudad.
* Nueva Planta Elevadora en Caverna y Plataforrna Costera para la instalacion de la Planta
de Tratamiemo Prediminar al final del Tunel Esmeralda, con capacidad de instalar a fituro
una planta do tratazniento mis avanzada.
7.- Junto con reestudiar los aspectos ingenieriles del proyecto, la ernpresa se aboc6 a redisxlar el
financiamiento respectivo.  De acuerdo a la experiencia tenida con el Banco Mundial en la
adjudicacion de las licitaciones principales, se deterrnin6 que el financiamiento debia tener las
siguientes caracteristicas:
* Pernitir la realizaci6n de licitaciones nacionales., en que los proponentes fiueran entidades
con domicilio en Chile y con antecedentes en l pis.
* Perrnitir la realizaci6n de propuesas por invitaci6n, de acuerdo a los requisitos inpuestos
por Esval.
8.- Durante 1996 pricticamente no hubo acercamientos entre ol Banco Mundial y Esval con
respecto a] uso de los recursos sin desenibolsar del Prostamo 3331 -CH. En enero de 1997, una
Misidn del Banco Mundial, tal cual consta en Ayuda Memoria respectiva, propuso revisar
conjuntamente con nuestra emnpresa algunas condiciones del prestamo, como las citadas en el
parrafo anterior, de tal modo de facilitar su ejecuci6n.



05/27/1998  16:51    289512                      GER ADM Y FINANZAS                 PAGE  03
41
EMPRESA
DE OBRAS SANITARIAS
-                  DM 9 9 1 OE VALPAIRAISO S. A.
_  2 6 lWB 4ffl    FILIAL CORFO
9.- A continuaci6n, una Mision de Esval visito el Banco Mundial en Washington D.C. en abril de
1997. Como resultado, se obtuvo que el Banco Mundial, a pesar de lo conversado previamnente,
no estaba disptiesto a flexibilizar sus procedimientos.
I 0.- En vista de lo anterior, con fecha 30 de junio de 1997, Esval solicito al Banco la cancelaci6n
del monto del prestamo no desembolsado a la fecha, ascendente a USS 16,8 millones.
I I.- Cabe consignar que a pesar de la cancelacion del prestamo del Banco Mundial, Esval no
tendra problemas en financiar el proyecto hasta su finalizaci6n, dado que ha accedido a los
mercados de capital privados. En 1996 obtuvo creditos por US$ 50 millones en el mercado
bancario chileno, mientras que en 1997 obtuvo creditos por USS 20 millones en el mercado
bancario chileno y por USS 75 trillones en los mercados bancarios internacionales. Todos estos
creditos se han suscnto sin garantias y con condiciones especialmente ventajosas, tanto en
temiinos ftnancieros como contractuales.
Sin otro particular, le saluda atentamnente,
Dante B  galupo    \
GerentGeneral
.: - Gerente Divisi6n Adm. y Servicios
- Gerente Adm. y Finanzas
- Unidad Anilisis Financiero
- Archivo



MAP SEC



IBRD 29445
SEA OUTFALL                  clC                                                                                                                                   This mep w-s produced
0-560 mm -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   Rsu 'l(Oysy ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by the Mop Decigo U,oit
L-8=00 mm                      1                                                                                                                                  of The World Bnk.
/  ---~~~~~~~~~~----,~~~~~~~~~~-  ,--~~~~~~~~~~ ~The b-oudries, colors,
V                                                                                  denom~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~inotioos so  oy
other informrotio  shows
Higuerila                                                                                                                                                          on othis ma p  d   not
oncon                                                                                             m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rply, u-tepr  of
The World Basi Group,
any udg-et on the legal
status of any territory,
or any endorsment
or accptance of such
IMCIFIC OCEAN                                                                                                                                                                                      boundories.
Renaca                         \
- 2 |  _   l l      !,r a  ~~De                                                                                     !                                        6so                      n 
SEA OUTFALL
Loma2 LaE \       j          |    l    lil  l i            L         w       t                                                                           ,  [22              \   BOLIVIA      /~      { BBAZIL
( _ ll | | E i K | | > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PARAGUA
ARGENTINA
E                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~REGION
Bustamante Tunnel                                                                                                                                                  v
Valparaiso
SANTIAGO                                        k
0                        5                        10
C  H    I L  E                                                                   KILOMETERS
SECOND VALPARAISO
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
Sewage Disposal Scheme                                                        Villa Alemana    Petorca 'L5y
PROJECT    EXISTING                                                             Vina DelM         REGION  V
Valparaiso.~                                          PAC111C
Main Collectors                                                                \1          (LrAA/                                           s          s           s*s
Area ofMa                    LoAne                                                              IOETR
*                *      Pumping Stations                                                                   Los Ano`6
*                       Treatment Plants
Rivers and Creeks                           |  |                                                                                                                            so
P,OiJEf  ~~          SANTIAGOts
gNEpl EUrban Areas                                         | YLSA |  ,'-IFC                 S
,tF       Province Boundaries                                            ,,,                 ,,  cc,,,
- Region Boondaries
I   International Boundarie  Z>   |       n0             r             60            50
JUNE 1998



IBRD 22904
-      tjitwt 5
0  o   5    10                             La Calera  JT\    Hijoetas
KILOMETERS
Las Veg-s
PA C/IFIC OCEAN                                                                               |                                                                       ayLIay
0=800 mm                                      Qt4lasa
L. -c 2I L.27 K.
l      <       O      w~~~~~~~le.8IKm               San Pedro
I  othhzes   )   ~~~a4j>v.C\;,X>r ~Limche                                                  20se              BOLIVIA                      BRA7IL     !/
F,t-)~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
VinaV                                                       LLS                                                 L Op
/uilpue          REGIONREGION
SECOND VALPARAISO                                                    VIna DelMa
WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT                                                     Vara                                              /IG
Proposed  Water Supply  Scheme                                                                        LsAds40
PROJECT   EXISTING
S      S    ~~Main Intake and Treatment Plants
Main Water Aquerducts                                        s#
Minor Water Soures (Wells)
*    Main Storage Tasks                                                  SAN  AG Wo
Co-nn   Major Existing Water Sources 
-     Dam                                                               Prosence Bojndares
P'  Risers and Streams                                      "R"'          Region Bou oarendS
Urban Areas                                                      In- terarnal Bounoar-e-  Z 
MARCH 1991



