RESTRICTED
Report No. PE-34a
This report is for official use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It may not be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
AN EDUCATION PROJECT
IN THE
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
March 27, 1972
Education Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
USED IN THIS REPORT
Currency Unit - CFA Franc (CFAF)
TS$ 1      - CFPA  256
CFAF 1 ,000 = US$   3.9
MEASURES
2
I m2       - 10.76sqft
1 km       -  0.38 sq mi
1 hectare      2.47 acres
FISCAL YEAR
January lst - December 31st



APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT IN TUlE CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
GLOSSARY
BASIC D)ATA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS            .................     ...................  i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                    1
The Request  ...........................................                   1
Socio-Economic Background ..........................,.                     1
II.    THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR .....................                     2
The Education and Training System .....................                    2
Strategy for Future Development  .......................                   4
III.    EDUCATION FINANCE ......................................                    4
Government Expenditure  ................................                   4
Foreign Aid ...........................................                    5
Future Expenditure  ....................................                   5
IV.    MANPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS  ..........................                    6
Ceneral  ...............................................                   6
Supply from Secondary Schools  .........................                   7
Employment of Technical and Commercial Graduates    ......                 7
Demand for Teachers  ...................................                   7
V.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................                    8
Objectives  ............................................                   8
Project Items  .........................................                   9
Cost of the Project ...................................    il
Implementation of the Project  .........................    13
VI.    RECOMMENDATIONS  .......................................    14
APPENDIX
The Education and Training System
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
the Central African Republic in May, 1971. The mission consisted of Messrs.
C. Pennisi (economist), F.C. Gamble (general educator), and R. Welter (ar-
chitect)  of the Bank and Mr. M1. Krohn  (technical educator,  ILO).






ANNEXES
1.   Enrollments in Primary and Secondary Education, 1960-70
2.   Projected Enrollments, 1969-80
3.   Recurrent Expenditures on Education and Training, 1970-80
4.   Civilian Wage Employment, 1970
5.   Manpower and Education Needs, 1970-80
6.   Teacher nemand and Supply, 1969-80
7.   Summary of Estimated Costs
8.   Contingency Allowances
9.   Capital Unit Costs in New Project Schools
10.   Project Implementation Schedule
11.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Comparative Education Indicators
CHARTS
1.   The Education and Training System
2.   Education Pyramid
LoAP
Location of Project Schools






GLOSSARY
Examinations
Baccalaureat:        Examination generally conferring the right to university
entry which is taken at the end of the lycee course
(three years after BEPC). There are baccalaureats in
arts subjects, economics, and combinations of mathematics
with scientific or technical subjects. The baccalaureat
de technicien is practically oriented and does not confer
the right to university entry.
BEPC:                Brevet d'Etudes du Premier Cycle.  Lower secondary school
certificate taken after four years' secondary education.
CAP:                 Certificat d'Aptitude Professionnelle.  Vocational
training certificate awarded following a three-year
course in a technical lower secondary school.
Educational
institutions
CEG:                 College d'Enseignement General.  Lower general second-
ary school offering a four-year course.
Lycee:               Full secondary school offering a four-year lower
secondary course followed by a three-year upper second-
ary course.
CFPR:                Centre de Formation Professionnelle Rapide - Accelerated
vocational training center.
CRAP:                Centre de Recherches et d'Action Pedagogique.  Institu-
tion conducting research into teaching methods, curri-
culum development, etc.
ENI:                 Ecole Normale d'Instituteurs.  Prîmary school teacher
training college.
ENS:                 Ecole Normale Superieure.  Secondary school teacher
training college.
ENSAC:               Ecole Normale Superieure d'Afrique Centrale.  Regional
Secondary school teacher training college in Brazzaville.
INPPE:               Institut National pour le Perfectionnement du Personnel
Enseignant. Institute offering refresher courses for
primary school teachers.



-2-
Aid agencies
FAC:            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation.  The French government
external aid agency.
FED:            Fonds Europeen de Developpement.  The aid agency of the
European Economic Community.
Regional Unions
UDEAC:          Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale.  The
Central African Customs Union.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPLIC
BASIC aATA - 1970
General
Area                                                            623,000 km2
Population                                                      1.6 million
Population Growth Rate                                              2.4%
Wage Employmoent                                                 80,000
Education
(Governnent schools only)
Enrollment in primary schools:
total                                                        170,000
as a percentage of the 6-11 age group                              73%
Enrollment in secondary schools:
total                                                         11,000
general secondary                                9,,500
trade and technical schools                      1,200
primary teacher training                           300
as a percentage of the 12-18 age group                              4%
Percentage of:
Qualified Primary Teachers                                         23%
Qualified Secondary Teachers                                       85%
Expatriate Secondary Teachers                                      79%
Central Government expenditure on education
as a percentage of:
Central Government budget                                       20%
GDP                                                              >4%
* A United Nations estimate used throughout this report; government
officials contend that the population of the country is almost
3 million.






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUIBLIC
APPRAISAL OF AN EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises an education project in the Central African
Republic for which a credit of US$3.9 million is proposed. Education and
training in the C.A.R. are based on the French system. In the recent past
the quantitative growth of the system has been very rapid but mainly at the
primary level where enrollment is about 73% of the age group. This has had
an adverse effect on efforts to improve the quality of education and has in-
creased substantially the demands of the sector on scarce government resources.
Secondary enrollment represents only 4% of the relevant age group, a figure
which contrasts strikingly with the primary enrollment ratio.
ii.       In spite of considerable government expenditure on education and
sizeable foreign aid, mainly from France and other European countries, social
and economic development of the country is hampered by shortages of trained
local high and middle level manpower while unemployment among unskilled
workers is growing. At present, as much as 75% of professional and tech-
nical positions are filled by expatriates.
iii.      The government is aware of these problems and has recently decided
to take various cost reducing measures, including the control of primary en-
rollment expansion, and the gradual replacement of expatriate teachers. At
the same time, it will seek quality improvement and a greater relevance of
the system to the needs of the economy. These broad policy decisions are to
be embodied in a long-term educational plan for which technical assistance
is required. As a first step toward achieving these objectives it is intend-
ed to: (a) expand and rationalize secondary education by introducing a well
balanced curriculum at the lower level and by strengthening science teaching
at the upper level; (b) improve technical and commercial education; and (c)
establish a training college for secondary school teachers.
iv.       The proposed project would assist in the implementation of these
objectives by financing:
(a)  four new lower secondary schools and an extension to an
existing one (grades 7 - 10);
(b)  additional facilities for science and practical
subjects in four lycees (grades 7 - 13);
(c)  extensions to the existing technical lycee (grades 9 - 13);
(d)  one new secondary teacher training college;
(e)  technical assistance for the preparation of a long-term
educational plan and the implementation of the project.



- ii -
Tne project schools would nave 8,090 student places of which 3,530 would be
provided under this project.
v.        Accommodation schedules and equipment estimates have been re-
viewed by the Association and are acceptable. Sites for all the institu-
tions have been selected and are satisfactory. Staff for the project
schools would be available locally or provided by technical assistance
financed by multilateral and bilateral sources.
vi.       A project unit to be established in the Ministry of Education
would be responsible for the implementation and overall supervision of the
project. Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment would be
awarded on the basis of the Bank/IDA Guidelines for international competi-
tive bidding. Construction is expected to be completed within three and a
half years of the signing of the Credit Agreement. Manufacturers of furni-
ture and equipment from the Central African Customs Union countries would
be awarded a margin of preference equivalent to the existing customs duties
applicable to competing imports or 15% of the c.i.f. price, whichever is
lower.
vii.      The total project cost is estimated at US$5.4 million including
import duties and local taxes estimated at 20% of the total. The project
is suitable as a basis for a Development Credit of US$3.9 million to the
C.A.R., equivalent to 90Z of the estimated project cost excluding import
duties and local taxes. The credit would cover the foreign exchange cost
estimated at US$2.8 million and about 72% of the local currency expenditure
net of taxes.



I. INTRODUCTION
The Request
1.01      In June, 1970, a Unesco mission reviewed the educational system
of the Central African Republic and identified priority areas for invest-
ment. In February, 1971, with the assistance of a Unesco mission, the gov-
ernment prepared and presented to the Association a project for financial
assistance.
1.02      The project was appraised in May, 1971, by a mission composed of
Messrs. G. Pennisi (economist), F. C. Gamble (general educator), R. Welter
(architect), of the Bank and M. Krohn (technical educator, ILO). During
appraisal the proposed project was revised, in agreement with the government,
to make it more relevant to the country's needs and to reduce its capital and
recurrent costs.
1.03      The proposed project would assist in:  the introduction of a new
curriculum including practical subjects in lower secondary education; the
strengthening of science teaching in upper secondary education; the improve-
ment and expansion of technical and commercial training; and the training of
local teachers for lower secondary schools. It would consist of:
(a) construction and equipping of:
- four new lower secondary schools and an extension of
an existing one (grades 7 - 10);
- additional facilities for science and practical
subjects in four lycees (grades 7 - 13);
- extension to the technical lycee (grades 9 - 13); and
- a new secondary teacher training college.
(b) seven man-years of specialists' services to assist
in education planning and project implementation.
(c)  a unit for the implementation and overall supervision
of the project.
Total cost of the project is estimated at US$5.4 million and the foreign
exchange component at US$2.8 million.
Socio-economic Background
1.04      The Central African Republic covers an area somewhat larger than
France. Its population is estimated at 1.6 million and is growing at 2.4%
per annum; the main ethnic groups are the Banda and the Baya, each compris-
ing about 30% of the population. French is the official language but Sango,
a local dialect, is emerging as the new national language. More than 40%
of the population is below 14 years of age. Urban population accounts for
about 30% of the total; rural migration is creating social problems in the
cities where job opportunities are increasing at a very slow rate.



- 2 -
1.05      The economy is mainly agricultural with a large subsistence
sector. The agricultural potential of the country has been only partially
exploited. Cotton and coffee are the main cash crops and there are consid-
erable forestry reserves which the government plans to exploit on a larger
scale. Mining is an important sector with diamonds accounting for some 50%
of export earnings. Industrial development is hampered by the small size
of the domestic market and the inadequate supply of skilled manpower and
managerial talent.
1.06      The per capita income is estimated at US$130 and has not increased
substantially in the last few years. National accounts estimates indicate
that GDP at current prices increased by about 4.2% annually during the
period 1964-1967 but remained almost constant in real terms.  Agriculture
and commerce account for 30% and 28% of GDP respectively.
1.07      The implementation of the 1967-1970 Development Plan has not been
entirely satisfactory because of inadequate public funds to match available
foreign aid, delays in the identification and preparation of development
projects and shortages of trained local manpower. Even in government
service expatriates account for 70% of high and middle level personnel.
The new Development Plan, 1971-1975, calls for greater mobilization of do-
mestic human and financial resources and for control of public recurrent
expenditure. Investment funds would be channelled into directly productive
sectors, such as agriculture, industry and mining, and into supporting infra-
structure works. Education, as the main source of skilled manpower, is given
high priority in public expenditure.
II. THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SECTOR
The education and training system (see also Appendix)
2.01      The system, based on that of France, comprises a six-year primary
course followed by a seven-year secondary course in two cycles of four and
three years (Charts 1 and 2). The lycees (grades 7-13) are the elite sec-
ondary institutions while the lower secondary schools (CEG*; grades 7-10)
usually admit over-age students who have little chance of completing the
full secondary course. Administration is highly centralized. Most post-
primary teaching, curriculum development and planning is carried out by
foreigners. French is the language of instruction.
2.02      Primary education enrollment represents a high proportion (73%) of
the 6-11 age group (see data for other countries in Comparative Education
Indicators). It more than doubled in the last decade and it is now increas-
ing by about 4.5% p.a. (Annex 1). This expansion has been assisted by a
school building program financed by FED; however, classes are still over-
crowded. Repetition and dropout rates are high and only 23% of the teachers
are qualified according to the government's own standards. The curriculum
contains very little practical work. About 20% of those who complete the
*    See Glossary.



-3 -
course enter secondary schools and another 10% enroll in out-of-school
programs. To improve the quality of teaching the Institute for the Im-
provement of the Teaching Personnel (INPPE*) offers refresher courses for
teachers in service while the Primary Teacher Training College (ENI*) will
graduate about 200 qualified teachers per year. Both institutions are
assisted by France which is also financing curriculum development and re-
search in primary teaching techniques at the Center for Pedagogical Research
( CRAP*) .
2.03      Secondary schools cater for only 4% of the relevant age group.
This figure contrasts strikingly with the high enrollment ratio of the
primary level. Curricula are over-literary. Courses become more specialized
in the higher grades leading in some cases to small uneconomical groups.
Academic standards, based on those of France, are high. One student in
five is a repeater and a similar proportion drops out or, rather, is excluded
from the schools each year. Last year 667 (or 56% of the candidates) passed
the BEPC examination, taken at the end of the lower cycle, and only 71 (45%)
received the baccalaureat (of whom only 21 in science). Some 80% of the
teachers are expatriates. In the last eight years a regional college in
Brazzaville, Congo, has trained 80 Centralafrican secondary teachers. Sec-
ondary teacher training in the C.A.R. started very recently and is provi-
sionally accommodated in the ENI.
2.04      Technical education has had a slow start and usually enrolls
students who cannot continue in general secondary education. Trade level
instruction is given in three schools, all in Bangui, with a total enroll-
ment of about 550. Technician courses were recently initiated in the tech-
nical lycee; the enrollments are only 35 in the industrial section and 64
in the commercial section. Almost all teachers are expatriates and instruc-
tion suffers from lack of equipment and workshops.
2.05      Agrieultural education is given in three colleges for extension
agents and a post-secondary institute. In addition, a retraining scheme
provides refresher courses for the 1,200 extension agents in service. The
existing programs seem to exceed the needs of a country with no more than
250,000 farming families.
2.06      A national University has recently been established in Bangui;
it enrolls about 60 students, all in the faculty of Law and Economics. Other
post-secondary institutions are the National School of Administration (enroll-
ment 30), and the University Institute of Agricultural Technology (enrollment
70). Some 300 students from C.A.R. ere attending post-secondary courses
abroad, mainly in France, the Soviet Union, and other African countries.
2.07      Out-of-school education includes an accelerated vocational training
center (CFPR) and three experimental programs assisted by foreign aid: rural
artisan centers, pioneer youth clubs and audio-vision centers.
*    See Glossary.



-4 -
Strategy for future development
2.08      Principal aims of the educational system should be to provide tralned
manpower for economic development and gradually replace expatriates, at costs
within the financial capacity of the country. To achieve these goals primary
school expansion should be controlled while enrollment in secondary education
should increase and more emphasis given to science and practical subjects.
2.09      The government intends to prepare a long term educational plan for
which technical assistance is required. It has already made the following de-
cisions as to future expansion and improvement: (a) to limit primary enroll-
ment expansion to about 3% per year (Annex 2); (b) to rationalize secondary
education by introducing a broader curriculum in the lover cycle; (c) to
concentrate upper cycle courses in certain lycees and to strengthen science
teaching; (d) to improve technical and commercial training; (e) to replace
gradually the expatriate teachers, starting vith the costly contract teachers;
(f) to establish a National Insitute of Pedagogy, mainly by merging existing
institutions; and (g) to start schools of engineering and medicine in the
University.
2.10      While the plans for the National Institute of Pedagogy and for
the new schools for the University need further study, the policy decisions
concerning primary, secondary, technical and teacher education are sound;
when implemented they would improve the quality of education and would help
to meet manpower needs with minimum additional expenditure.
III. EDUCATION FINANCE
3.01      The C.A.R. has very limited financial resources and depends
heavily on foreign aid, mainly from France. Although tax revenue amouats
to some 20% of GDP, the recurrent budget of the central goverameut bas a
deficit.
3.02      Financial responsibility for education rests primarily with the
central government. There are only a few private schools. Local government
and community contributions are mainly iu kind, e.g., labor and materials
for construction of primary schools. Data on total educational expenditure
are incomplete.
3.03      Government expenditure.  Public education is free and post-primary
students are assisted by a large fellowship program.  Public funds are chan-
nelled mainly through the Ministry of Education which administers about 75%
of government recurrent expenditure on education; the balance relates to the
fellowship program and to specialized vocational coutees. In the last
five years, government expenditure on education increaàed by 9.5% p.a.
to reach CFAF 2.2 billion in 1970, about 20% of the total budget and 4% of
GDP. Government funds are directed almost exclusively toward the payment



- 5 -
of teacher salaries, fellowships and other recurrent costs. In the last fivc
years, government capital expenditure on education was only CFAF 45 million.
3.04      Data on recurrent expenditure by level and type of education
are not available. It is known, however, that about 55% of government
educational funds are spent on primary education. The statutory level of
teacher salaries, as for all civil servants, is high and impedes the employ-
ment of qualified teachers in satisfactory numbers. Salaries for local
teachers vary from 8 to 74 times the per capita income.
3.05      Fellowships, until recently, were given to all students in general
secondary, technical, vocational, agricultural and teachers education. In
the last six years the bill has doubled to reach CFAF 400 million in the 1971
budget, or 18% of total government expenditure on education. This extensive
bursary program has compromised other priority needs of the educational sys-
tem. To correct the situation the government is now providing fellowships
only to the most deserving 40% of general secondary students; a full fellow-
ship policy will remain for technical and vocational students.
3.06      In the 1971 budget, CFAF 300 million - or three fourths of the
total fellowship program - is allocated to studies abroad. Expansion of
post-secondary courses in the C.A.R. could contribute in reducing this
amount. In addition, better coordination with bilateral aid programs could
lead to substantial savings in overseas fellowships; to this end, an Inter-
Ministerial Fellowship Committee has recently been established in the Min-
istry of Planning.
3.07      Foreign aid.  Foreign aid, mainly from France, supplements recur-
rent government expenditure on education and provides almost all the funds
used for school construction and equipment. During the period 1964-1970
total foreign aid for investment in education in the C.A.R. is estimated
at CFAF 2.24 billion with FED and FAC accounting for two billion; other
donors were Israel, the Republic of China, and Canada. 0f the total sum,
about 36% was spent on general education, 28% on higher education, 19% on
agricultural education and the balance on teacher training and technical
education in equal shares.
3.08      Future expenditure.  The governnent realizes that past trends in
its educational recurrent expenditure cannot continue because of budgetary
constraints. Its draft Plan envisages an increase of no more than 5% p.a.
compared to 9.5% p.a. in the last five years. This rate would allow for a
moderate growth in primary enrollment and an expansion of secondary education
as required by manpower needs. To keep expenditure within reasonable limits
the government has initiated an "austerity program" of which the change in
its fellowship policy is an example (para 3.05). On the basis of present
policies, it is estimated that in 1980 recurrent expenditure on education
will be about CFAF 4 billion (Annex 3); it would represent 25% of the govern-
ment's projected total budget, a ratio already reached in many African coun-
tries. The annual increase in recurrent educational expenditure would be
about 6% of which about one tenth would be generated by the proposed project.



-6 -
3.09      It is expected that most of the capital expenditure on education
during the period of the new Five Year Plan (1971-1975) will continue to be
financed by foreign sources. On the basis of present enrollment targets,
about CFAF 3 billion would be needed until 1975 for the expansion of primary,
secondary, technical and teacher education. In particular, some CFAF 2 bil-
lion would be required to build the 50,000 primary school places necessary
to reduce overcrowding and allow for moderate enrollment expansion.
3.10      There is room for further cost-saving measures to be studied in
the context of a long-term plan for the education and training system. Dur-
ing negotiations the government confirmed its intention to prepare such a
plan (para 2.09) and that it will forward it to the Association for comments
within two years of the signing of the Credit Agreement. The plan should be
prepared by the Mîinistry of Education in collaboration with the Ministries
of Finance, Planning and Labor. It should be based on a careful analysis
of the financial implications of alternative strategies of educational
development and of cost-saving methods. An education economist provided
under the proposed project would assist in the preparation of the plan.
IV.  MANPOWER AND EDUCATION NEEDS
4.01      General.  The economically active population is estimated at
about 650,000 of which 70% is engaged in the subsistence sector. Unem-
ployment in the urban centers is estimated at about one-fourth of the labor
force while there is much underemployment in the rural areas.  Most of the
unemployed are primary school leavers and unskilledâworkers from the sub-
sistence sector of the economy. On the other hand, shortages of trained
local manpower necessitate the use of expensive foreigners and this hampers
development. Data on wage employment in 1970 (Annex 4), although incomplete,
indicate that as much as 75% of professional and technical positions, 24% of
middle level supervisory posts and 17% of semi-skilled posts are filled by
expatriates.
4.02      In the absence of comprehensive manpower statistics, future man-
power needs and education requirements have been estimated on the basis of
data relating only to large and medium size establishments; they are depicted
in Annex 5 and summarized below:
Manpower Requirements during the period 1970-1980
For replacement
For expansion  of expatriates       Attrition    Total
Administrators
and Professionals            1,300             800              200         2,300
Clerical and skilled
workers                      3,000           1,200            3,800         8,000
Seini-skilled workers        4,100           2,350            4,950        11,400



Translating these manpower estimates into educational requirements (Annex 5)
there is a need for 1,000 university, 1,000 upper secondary and 10,000 lower
secondary graduates over the period 1970-1980. These figures reflect only
minimum requirements since they ignore self-employment, do not take into ac-
count the manpower needs of small establishments and assume only a modest im-
provement in the educational profile of the labor force. The needs for uni-
versity graduates would be met by those studying in the C.A.R. and by students
returning from abroad; no shortage is expected.
4.03      Supply from secondary schools.  The present secondary  school ca-
pacity, estimated at about 10,000 student places, will be increased by 1,000
places by a FEI) financed project under implementation. The proposed IDA proj-
ect would add a further 3,200 places. At present, all graduates from upper
secondary (71 in 1970) enroll in post-secondary courses in the C.A.R. and
abroad. With the planned expansion, however, a number of graduates will be
available to fill posts requiring upper secondary education.  Some shortages
may arise but any further expansion of enrollment of this level is not ad-
visable because of inadequate supply of teachers and financial constraints.
4.04      In 1970, some 300 students completing the lower cycle of secondary
education could not enroll in the upper cycle. This number is expected to
increase to over 1,000 in the second half of the '70s. They will seek
employment in industry, mining,  modern agriculture and other services where
enough jobs would be available. Temporary shortages of lower cycle leavers
may emerge but for reasons mentioned in the previous paragraph and to avoid
unemployment problenis in the future, further expansion is not recommended.
More important than the number of lower secondary leavers is their background.
They are poorly prepared for most of the jobs in the economy because they
have had an excessively literary education. They need a more practical back-
ground on which to build experience and on-the-job training.
4.05      Employment of technical and commercial graduates.  At present almost
all technicians in the C.A.R. are expatriates. Technicians graduating from
the industrial and commercial sections of the technical lycee (about 100 per
year) are expected to meet additional needs in industry and mining (total
employment 20,000) and provide for gradual replacement of expatriates. The
present output from the lower level technical school supplemented by existing
on-the-job training schemes is sufficient to meet the demand. To reinforce
non-formal training, better use can be made of existing facilities for voca-
tional training and responsibilities should be more appropriately divided be-
tween the technical lycee and the accelerated vocational training center.
4.06      Demand for teachers.  In 1980 the primary schools of the country
are expected to employ some 4,700 teachers. The output (about 250 per year)
from the existing teacher training institutes (the ENI and the Girls' Normal
School) will permit a steady improvement in the quality of the teaching
force (Annex 6). The government intends to retrain unqualified teachers,
who will number about 2,500 at the end of the decade, at the INPPE (para 2.02).



- 8 -
4.07      In 1980, about 600 secondary school teachers would be required.
It is planned that three-fourths of them should be Centralafricans and the
remainder foreigners supplied by technical assistance; the latter would
concentrate on upper cycle work. To achieve this goal an annual output
of 40 rising gradually to 50 local secondary teachers is planned.
4.08      In summary, the areas w*here expansion and improvement are most
urgent are secondary, technical and teacher education. Enrollment expan-
sion should be accompanied by quality imiprovement that would relate better
the education and training system to labor market demand and provide for a
gradual africanization of employment.
V. THE PROJECT
Objectives
5.01      The proposed project would assist in the implementation of the
governnient educational policy (para 2.09) by: (a) providing lower secondary
facilities for the teaching of a broader curriculum; (b) adding science and
practical subject rooms to four existing lycees; (c) improving the facilities
for technical and commercial courses; (d) establishing a college to train
secondary school teachers; and (d) helping with the preparation of a long-
term educational development plan.
5.02      The lower secondary schools included in the project would free
places in existing lycees for upper cycle courses that would increase the
annual output at this level from 70 in 1970 to about 250 by the end of the
decade. The institutions to be established or improved under the project
would cover all lower secondary teacher training and would account for about
50% and 70% of the 1976 total enrollment in general secondary and teclinical
education respectively. The proposed project consists of:
(a) Construction and equipping of:
Boarding
Type of Institution       Student Places         Places      Staff Houses
Add.   Total       Add.  Total   Add.  Total
Four new CEG (lower second-
ary schools) and extension
to an existing one           2,850   3,200        480    480      18     2()
Extension to four lycees         380   3,940        -     660       -      14
Extension to the technical
lycee                           150     800        -      -        -      3
One new ENS (secondary
teacher college)                150     150        60     60       5      5
Total               3,530   8,090       540  1,200      23      42



- 9 -
(b)  Seven man-years of specialists' services to assist in edlucacion
planning and project implementation.
(c)  A unit for the implementation and overall supervision of the
project.
Qualified candidates and staff would be available for the project schools.
A modest number of boarding places would be provided to accommodate students
living either far from the schools or under conditions precluding effective
study at home. Staff housing would be included in the project because of
housing shortages in the C.A.R. and the need to accommodate expatriate
teachers.
Project Items
5.03      Lower Secondary Schools (CEG, grades 7-10).  The project would
establish four new CEG and extend an existing one. The new schools would be
located, two in Bangui (capacities: 800 and 400 students), Bambari (800) and
Berberati (400); the existing one is in Sibut (present capacity 350, future
800). One of the two schools located in Bangui would serve as a practice
school for the teacher training college (ENS). The additional student places
in the lower secondary schools would allow an increased enrollment at the
upper secondary level by releasing places in lycees for upper cycle courses.
5.04      The new facilities in the lower secondary schools would allow the
introduction of a well-balanced curriculum with practical subjects, includ-
ing technology, home economics, commerce and elements of agriculture. "Tech-
nology" comprises simple metalwork, woodwork and electricity with some tech-
nical drawing based, as far as possible, on everyday objects within the pupils'
own experience. The government wishes to give a practical orientation to the
new courses but the presently proposed technology course appears to be too
theoretical. During negotiations, assurances were given by the government
that the Association will receive within one year of the signing of the
Credit Agreement the technology syllabus for comments.
5.05      Lycees (grades 7-13).  At the lower level (grades 7-10) facilities
for practical work would be provided in the lycees Boganda and Bokassa in
Bangui, and the lycees in Bambari and Berberati. These facilities would
enable the lycees to offer the curriculum mentioned in the previous para-
graph; the existing facilities are inadequate for practical subject teach-
ing. At the upper level (grades 11-13) the project would improve the present
imbalance between arts and science streams (para. 2.03) by properly equipping
for science teaching the Lycee Boganda in Bangui and the lycees at Bambari
and Berberati. In each of these three lycees at least two science (natural
and physical) baccalaureat streams would be established.
5.06      For the proper operation of the lower secondary cycle of the CEGs
and the lycees included in the project, 24 science teachers and 33 teachers
of practical subjects would be required. The teachers of general subjects



- 10 -
and science would be trained at the ENS, whose projected output would permit
the complete replacement of expatriate teachers at this level in the early
1980's. The government intends to train teachers of technology and commerce
in the ENS in collaboration with the technical lycee, and teachers of home
economics in the College Technique Feminin (CTF - Girls' Technical School).
Assurances were received from the government during negotiations that, with-
in one year of the signing of the Credit Agreement, a plan for training
lower secondary school teachers of practical subjects will be finalized and
sent to the Association for comments. Teachers at the upper secondary level
will be provided mainly under bilateral technical assistance programs. As
more qualified Centralafrican teachers become available expatriates will be
replaced.
5.07      Technical Education.  The technical lycee included in the project
would be expanded and provided with additional equipment to conduct terminal
courses for mechanical, electrical and civil engineering technicians and for
accountants and secretaries. The project would re-equip the existing work-
shops and construct new facilities which would be shared with the lower
level technical school. Courses in building trades now offered in the lycee
would be transferred to the Accelerated Vocational Training Center. The
technician courses in the lycee would be strongly practical with technical
subjects and workshop practice accounting for about 60% of students' time.
The annual output at the upper level would be about 100, and 90 at the lower.
5.08      There are 49 expatriate and 7 local teachers at the technical
lycee and no additional teachers are required. To replace the expatriate
teachers the government intends to train technical and commercial subject
teachers either in the ENS or in a repgional technical teacher college for
which UNDP assistance has been sought. Assurances were given during negoti-
ations that, within one year of the signing of the Credit Agreement, a
training scheme for technical and commercial teachers will be sent to the
Association for comments.
5.09      Teacher Training.  The Ecole Normale Superieure (ENS), with a
total capacity of 150 students, would provide a three-year course to train
lower secondary scnool teachers. When an adequate number of candidates
with baccalaureat hecomes available the course would be reduced to two years
and the output would increase from 40 to 50. The ENS in cooperation with the
technical lycee would also train practical subjects teachers. A CEG for
400 students would be built on the campus of the ENS to serve as a teaching
practice school (para 5.03).
3.10      At present, the ENS preparatory classes share teachers and sup-
porting staff with the ENI where they are provisionally accommodated. For
the proper operation of the ENS some 13 teachers would be required by 1975.
Amongst t-.;e Centralafricans studying abroad ten could, on their return
become teacuiers at the ENS. However, in the initial stages the ENS will



- il -
need the assistance of specialists in secondary teacher training. The govern-
ment intends to request assistance from the United Nations Development Pro-
gram. If UNDP support is not forthcoming, it expects that this assistance
will be obtained from bilateral sources. During negotiations, assurances
were given by the government that a staff development plan for the ENS will
be sent to the Association for comments within two years of the date of sign-
ing of the Credit Agreement.
5.11      Technical Assistance.  To assist in the preparation of a long-term
educational plan (para. 2.09) the project would provide the services of an
educational economist for one year to advise on educational finance and cost-
saving measures. To ensure proper implementation, the project would include
the services of an educator-administrator as adviser to the project director
(three man-years), and a project architect (three man-years).  All experts
financed out of the Credit and their terms of reference would be acceptable
to the Association; qualified counterparts would be assigned to work with
all foreign experts.
The Cost of the Project
5.12      General.  Construction cost estimates have been derived from
recent C.A.R. school building costs, adjusted to allow for economical
design and construction. The average cost per m2 for the project schools
is estimated at US$140; it compares with estimated figures of US$130 in
Congo (B), US$180 in Chad, and US$150 in Zaire. Furniture and equipment
cost estimates are reasonable; detailed lists would be prepared durîng the
design stage and would be reviewed by the Association before procurement.
5.13      The estimated costs and foreign exchange components of the
various parts of the proposed project are given in Annex 7 and summarized
below:



- 12 -
CFAF (million)          US$ (million)      Percent
Local Foreign Total. Local Foreign Total of total
1. Four new lower second-
ary schools and an ex-
tension to one             382    380       762   1.50   1.48    2.98         55
2. Extension to four
lycees                     54      67      121   0.21   0.26    0.47          9
3. Extension to the
technical lycee            26      48       74   0.10   0.19    0.29          6
4. One new secondary
teacher training
college                    49      52      101   0.19   0.20    0.39          7
5. Technical Assistance         13     51       64   0.05   0.20    0.25          5
6. Project Administration    17         2       19   0.07   0.01    0.08          1
7. Contingencies:
Physical                   40      40       80   0.15   0.16    0.31          6
Price                      77      82      159   0.30   0.32    0.62         il
Total              658    722    1380   2.57   2.82    5.39          100
The estimated cost by various categories of expenditure is summarized below:
CFAF (million)          US$ (million)      Percent
Local Foreign  Total  Local Foreign  Total  of total
1. Construction
Academic & Communal       241    241      482   0.94   0.94    1.88          35
Boarding                   87      87      174   0.34   0.34    0.68         12
Staff Housing              57      58      115   0.22   0.23    0.45          8
Site Development           45      20       65   0.18   0.08    0.26          5
Professional Fees          21      33       54   0.08   0.13    0.21          4
Subtotal                451    439      890   1.76   1.72    3.48         64
2. Furniture                   27       9       36   0.11   0.03    0.14          3
3. Equipment                    33     99      132   0.13   0.38    0.51         10
4. Project Administration    17         2       19   0.07   0.01    0.08          1
5. Technical Assistance         13     51       64   0.05   0.20    0.25          5
6. Contingencies:
Physical                   40      40       80   0.15   0.16    0.31          6
Price                      77      82      150   0.30   0.32    0.62         il
Total              658    722    1380   2.57   2.82    5.39          100
The recurrent expenditure generated by the project is estimated at CFAF 200
million per year or 5.5% of the 1977 projected educational budget.



- 13 -
5.14      Contingencies and foreign exchange component.  Contingency allow-
ances are shown in detail in Annex 8. For unforeseen factors, 8% is added
to the cost estimates of site development, construction and professional
fees and 5% for furniture and equipment. Present unit costs are expected
to increase and therefore an additional 15% contingency (based on a 6%
annual rate) has been included for civil works, furniture, equipment and
professional services. All contingencies amount to 20.8% of the project
cost before contingencies and to 17.2% of the project cost including con-
tingencies. The foreign exchange component of US$2.8 million equivalent,
has been calculated as follows: (i) site development 30%, (ii) building
50%, (iii) furniture 25%, (iv) equipment 75%, (v) technical assistance 80%,
(vi) professional fees 60% and (vii) project administration 10%.
5.15      Duties and Taxes.  Import duties and other local taxes vary
considerably from item to item; they are estimated at about 20% of the total
project cost. Consequently, total project cost net of import duties and
local taxes is estimated at US$4.3 million of which US$2.8 million or 65%
represents foreign exchange costs.
5.16      Unit costs per student place in new project schools are compared
with estimated unit costs in similar Bank/IDA financed institutions in
neighboring countries in Annex 9. In lower secondary schools, the cost
per student place is estimated at US$580 and in the teacher training
college at US$1,050. The cost per boarding place is estimated at US$1,560
in secondary schools and at US$1,955 in the teacher training college. The
cost of construction in the C.A.R. could be lower if local timber were
employed instead of brick and concrete. However, the use of timber for
school buildings is still in the experimental stage. During negotiations,
assurances were given by the government that the project architect will
review the possibilities of using timber for civil works and his report
will be sent to the Association for comments within six months of his
appointment (Annex 10).
Implementation of the Project
5.17      Administration.  A project unit would be established in the Min-
istry of Education to provide overall supervision of the project and liaison
with the Association. A project director, an architect and a procurement
officer, all acceptable to the Association, would be appointed on a full-time
basis to the project unit. The establishment of the project unit and the
appointment of the project director and architect would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement. The project unit would be provided
with adequate supporting staff including an accountant. The salaries of
the project unit personnel and the operational expenditures of the unit are
included in the total project cost.
5.18      Procurement.  Contracts for civil works, furniture and equipment
would be awarded in accordance with the Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement.
In the C.A.R. there are a few large and competitive construction firms, mostly
headed by foreigners, capable of carrying out the project. It is unlikely
that contractors not already operating in the country would bid for civil



- 14 -
works. It is expected that instructional equipment would be procured abroad
and furniture locally. Local manufacturers of furniture and equipment would
be allowed a preferential margin of 15% over the c.i.f. price of competing
imports, or the existing rate of duty whichever is lower. The preferential
treatment would be applied also to manufacturers from other UDEAC countries. 1/
UDEAC tariff rates on imported furniture vary considerably from item to item
but, in general, they are higher than 15%.
5.19      The project unit would be responsible for preparing and issuing
tenders, evaluating bids and awarding contracts. Items would be grouped
to the extent practicable to encourage competition and to permit bulk
procurement. In preparing and issuing tenders, evaluating bids and awarding
contracts for procurement of civil works, the project unit would collaborate
with the Ministry of Public Works. Design and supervision of civil works
would be the responsibility of a consulting firm of architects selected
and commissioned on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Two architectural firms in the country have experience in school buildings.
5.20      Sites.  Suitable sites have been selected for all the schools
included in the project. During negotiations, assurances were given by
the government that legal possession of all sites will be acquired by the
:1inistry of Education in good time to avoid delays in construction.
5.21      Disbursement.  The proposed Credit would be disbursed (Annex 11)
on the basis of 80% of the cost of equipment, project administration and
technical assistance and 69% of the cost of civil works, furniture and
professional fees. 2/ These percentages would be adjusted as necessary to
disburse T'S$3.9 million or 72% of the project cost, whichever is lower.
The project would be completed over a period of four and a half years.
Undisbursed IDA funds would be cancelled.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACIED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
1/   UDEAC (Union Douaniere des Etats de l'Afrique Centrale) is a customs
union including C.A.R., Congo (B), Cameroon and Gabon.
2/   These percentages would be equivalent to about 100% of the net of
taxes cost of imported equipment, project administration and technical
assistance and to about 80% of the net of taxes costs of civil works
and locally procured furniture.



- 1 5 -
(a) the preparation of a long-term development plan for education
and training, the syllabus for technology courses, training
programs for teachers of technical, commercial and practical
subjects courses and a staff development plan for the
secondary teacher training college (paras. 3.10, 5.04, 5.06,
5.08, 5.10); and
(b) a study of the feasibility of using local timber for civil
works (para. 5.16).
6.02      In addition to the customary conditions, the establishment of
the project unit and the appointment of the project director and the project
architect, both acceptable to the Association, would be condition of effec-
tiveness of the Credit Agreement (para. 5.17).
6.03      The proposed project provides a suitable basis for a Development
Credit of US$3.9 million equivalent to the Central African Republic for a
term of 50 years including a 10-year grace period.
March 27, 1972






APPENDIX
Page   1
THE EDUCATION AND TRAINING SYSTEM
Administration
1.        Administrative control is centralized in the Ministry of National
Education.  Other Ministries with educational programs are Social Affairs
(kindergarten education), Agriculture (agricultural education), and Labor
(accelerated vocational training). A planning division has recently been
established within the Ministry of Education.
Structure
2.        The system is modelled on that of France with the addition of
one year (initiation) to the primary cycle. It comprises: (a) a six-year
primary course beginning at age 6 or above, depending on when the child can
find a place; and (b) a four-year lower secondary course given in CEGs or
lycees, followed by a three-year upper secondary course given in the lycees
only.
3.        Promotion is controlled by internal examination within each
school and by national examinations between levels. In all public schools
education is provided free; enrollment in private schools is negligible.
French is the language of instruction in all schools.
Primary Education (Grades 1-6)
4.        The basic data for 1969-70 were as follows:
Student/Teacher   Qualified
Schools   Enrollments   Girls   Teachers          Ratio        Teachers
778       170,048       32%     2,647            64              23%
5.        Total enrollment represents about 73% of the 6-11 age group.
The average rate of growth over the last nine years has been 10.8% per
annum. Repetition and dropout rates are high: one pupil in four is a
repeater, and only a fourth of the pupils entering the first grade reach
the sixth.
6.        In the first grades some two-thirds of the students' time is
given to the study of French reading and writing. Later on, more time
is spent on arithmetic, social studies, physical education, and simple
agriculture. However, only 1/30 of the total time is spent on agriculture,
which appears insufficient in a country with 70% rural population and
where less than 10% of the pupils who enter primary schools continue their
education further.



APPENDIX
Page   2
General Secondary Education (Grades 7-13)
7.        The basic data for 1970-71 were as follows:
Student/
Grades 7-10         Grades 11-13    Total       Teacher
Schools   Enrollment    Enrollment    Teachers    Ratio         Girls
CEG      12          3,512           -             76          46
Lycees    9          5,045          987           237          25
21         8,557          987           313          30        15%
8.        Enrollment in lower secondary education increased by 20% annually
during the period 1960-1970; during the same period upper secondary enroll-
ment increased 15 times, or by 30Z p.a. Lower secondary enrollment represents
some 6.4% of the 12-15 age group, and upper secondary 1% of the 16-18 age
group. Formerly all students received bursaries (amounting to about $8 per
month), but now only 40% do so.
9.        One pupil in six at the lower level and one in five at the upper
level are repeaters; every year about 20% of the students are excluded from
the schools. Some 45% of the students proceed fromi lower to upper secondary,
and about 60% of those taking the baccalaureat examination at the end of
the upper secondary courses are successful. The teaching force is generally
well qualified but nearly 80% are foreigners; a fifth of the foreigners are
on contract.
10.       The elite secondary establishment is the lycee, open only to
those students who have completed their primary education by the age of 13.
The curricula follow closely those in France; some adaptation to the local
conditions has been made in history, geography, and the natural science
courses. The programs of studies emphasize literature rather than science.
In 1970 there were 667 successful candidates in the BEPC examination,
and 71 in the baccalaureat of whom only 21 were in science subjects.
Primary Teacher Training
11.       Students already holding the BEPC are now being trained in the
ENI, in Bangui, in a new building financed by France; it opened in
October 1970 and has a capacity of 410 student places and an enrollment of
125. The full course lasts three years but some students enter the
teaching force after the first or preparatory year. It is very academic
with little time devoted to teaching practice. All students receive
bursaries of $22 per month.
12.       Girls aged 16 or over with two or three years of secondary
education are trained in a two-year course at the Cours Normal in Bangui;
in 1970/71 it enrolled 89 students. All students receive bursaries



APPENDIX
Page   3
amounting to $16 per month. Refresher courses for practising teachers,
principals and inspectors are given in the INPPE, house(] in adaptcl
premnises on the outskirts of Bangui. FED has been requested to provide
funds for a new building. The government intends to merge all the institu-
tions for teacher training, refresher courses, and research work into a
National Pedagogie Institute. Its present plans for this Institute seem
rather ambitious as the recurrent expenditure envisaged is estimated at
about US$1.25 million per year.
Secondary Teacher Training
13.       Lower secondary teacher training has until now been carried out
at a regional Ecole Normale Superieure in Brazzaville, Congo, in a two-year
course for baccalaureat holders. Since its establishment in 1962 this
school has trained 80 Centralafrican lower secondary teachers. Its
present Centralafrican enrollment is 31, with only 6 in mathematics and
science subjects. Transportation costs to Brazzaville for the student
alone amount to some US$200, and he receives a bursary of US$75 per month
during his training.
14.       The government of C.A.R. has recently established an ENS to
cater for the needs of the country. It is now housed in the building of
the ENI (para. 11). The courses presently offered are preparatory only;
the enrollment is 67. All students receive bursaries amounting to US$28
per month. Upon graduation they are required to teach for 10 years.
Agricultural Education and Training
15.       Primary school leavers are trained as rural artisans in 10
centers distributed throughout the country; instruction is offered in
stonework, woodwork and metalwork. The course lasts two years, with 70%
of the last year devoted to practical work. Total enrollment in 1970-71
was 307. One of these centers, at Sibut, offers a course in purely agri-
cultural subjects (animal husbandry and crop cultivation) to 32 students.
These centers were built on a FED grant and are receiving technical assis-
tance under a UNDP/ILO project.
16.       At the technician level three small schools offer pre-service
training for some 160 students in a three-year course. All graduates
are intended to enter Government service, but as the extension service
has already about 1,200 agents (or 1 per 200 farming families) it seems
doubtful whether the government will continue to absorb the output.
17.       At the higher level, a University Institute of Agricultural
Technology (IUTA) was opened in October 1970 at M'Baiki to train higher
level personnel from the C.A.R., Chad, Congo (B), and Gabon. It has a
capacity of 215 places and cost US$1.7 million; funds for the buildings
were provided by FED.



APPENDIX
Page 4
18.       Outside the formal system is the National Youth Pioneers Organi-
zation. Created nine years ago with Israeli aid, it now comprises 38 clubs
where some 5,000 unemployed youths receive civic education and pre-vocational
training. It also includes six cocperative villages where 380 young men
either cultivate their own land with material bought collectively or work
on State coffee plantations. In addition, there are about 70 radio-vision
centers where rural problems are explained by audio-visual means.
Tecihnical Education and Vocational Training
19.       Thie technical lycee in Bangui is the only school which gives
technician courses (Grades 11-13). Enrollments at this level are still
small, only 35 in the industrial section and 64 in the commercial section,
because the courses started as recently as 1969. M4ost of the teachers
are provided by bilateral aid. The equipment and the facilities are in-
adequate for technician training. The technical lycee also houses a CET
(College d'Enseignement Technique - grades 9-11) with an industrial section
(enrollment 159), and a commercial section (enrollment 97). Six classrooms
are being used temporarily for lower general secondary educatinn with a
technical bias. In addition, the technical lycee organizes part-time even-
ing courses financed by private organizations.
20.       There are three other institutions giving technical education
and vocational training, all in Bangui:  (a) Ecole des Metiers d'Art,
wlhich gives courses in sculpture, leatherwork, bookbinding, ironwork,
jewelry and basket weaving, with a total enrollment of 82; (b) College
Technique Feminin, which gives courses in home economics and dressmaking
with a total enrollment of 203; and (c) Centre de Formation Professionnelle
Rapide (CFPR), which gives short courses of 6 to 12 months' duration in
typing, tiling, auto-mechanics, carpentry and masonry; 94 participated
in these courses in 1970-71.
lligher Education
21.       A University has been recently established in Bangui.  Sixty
students are already enroiled in the Faculty of Law and Economic Sciences.
In October 1971 it is intended to begin the operation of the Faculty of
Science. Other faculties proposed are those of Engineering and Medicine.
Students Abroad
22.       There are about 500 Centralafrican students studying abroad at
both secondary and post-secondary levels. About a half of these students
are studying in France on bursaries ranging from US$50 to US$130 per
month. One i1undred and thirty are studying in other African countries and
a hundred or so in the Soviet Union on bursaries provided by the Soviet
Governnent.



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Enrollments in Prixnary and Secondary General JSducation, 1960-61/1969-70
196n-61     1961-62      1962-63     1963-64      1964-65      1965-66     1966-67      1967-68     1968-69      1969-70
Primanr
Grade  1           26,51U1     ?8,'55       34,171      42,697      145,966      49,790       58,240       57,371      51,151       58,237
Grade              11,097      14,917       16,701      21,495       24,o53      25,14'9      28,014       31,430       39,335      36,208
Grade  3           10,577      11,599       12,913      14,281       17,1455     18,602       20,545       22,181       22,762      26,349
Grade  1i           7,291       8,419       10,157      11,465       12,267      13,613       15,612       16,33?      17,318       19,614
Grade  6            5,n87       6,187        7,516       9,140       10,43?2     11,075       13,372       13,445      13,585       15,0145
Grade  6            3,917       4,658        6,082       7,276        9,392      10,2114      13,062       12,565      13,017       14,595
qub-Total       67,510       73,835      87,528      106,Q54     119,565      128,436      148,8145    153,324      156,178      170,048
Lower Secondary
Grade  7              681         901          860       1,226        1,228       1,305        1,663        1,635       1,745        2,580
Grade  8              377         528          749          773         989       1,0?5        1,152        1,370        1,519       1,606
Gra de  9             237         267         -4?2         687          605        652           811       1,008        1,158       1,3614
Grade 10              1°9        2?1l          ?10          36 ?        541         520          590          749          7 ?9        984
qub-Total        1,1J90       1,91'       2,?314       ?,0149       2,363      ?,512         4,219        .0,762      5,161        6,534
Upper Secondary
Grade 11               46          47           86           96         1g9         183           924         231          329          433
Grade 19               16          30           60           59          71         1?1          159          106          144          1614
5rade 1'               -           12           99           34          49          39            66         1o6           96          109
Sub--otê.1           62          89          1e8         189          313         353          449          443          569          70o
Grend T?otal    69,0t,9      70,8214     89,93       10°,592      123,241     132,?01 1-3.61i           158,529     161.90M      177,208
tou^l '2?.9n     0t><of o£d aqtJ on
iflay 02971



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Enrollments in Primary and Secondary General Education (1969/70) and Projections to 1980/81
1969-70    1970-71    1971-72    1972-73    1973-74    1974-7         1975-76    1976-77    197.7-7      1978-79    1979-8Q    .8O-81
PRIMARY (000s)          (Actual)
Grade  1                  58.237       59.7       60.9        62.1        63.4       64.6        65.9        67.2        68.6        69.9       71.3        72-7
Grade  2                  36.208       37.9        38.8       39-6        40.4        41.2       42.0        42.8        43.7        44.6       45.4        46-3
Grade  3                  26.349       29.0        30.3       31.0        31.7        32.3       33.0        33.6        34.2        35.o       35.7        36-3
Grade  4                  19.614       21.1        23.2       24.2        24.8        25.3       25.9        26.4        26.9        27.4       28.0        28.5
Grade  5                  15.045       17.7        19.0       20.9        21.8        22.3       22.8        23.3        23.8        24.2        24.7       25.2
Grade  6                  14.595       15.0        17.7       19.0        20.9        21.8       22.3        22.8        23.3        23.8       24.2        24.7
Total                  170.048      180.4      189.9       196.8       203.0      207.5       211.9       216.1      220.5       224.9       229.3       233.7
LOWER SECONDARY
Grade  7                   2,580      3,703       3,820      3,930       4,040       4,160      4,270       4,390       4,500       4,610      4,730       4,840
Grade  8                   1,606      2,186       3,140      3,250       3,340       3,430      3,540       3,630       3,730       3,820      3,920       4,020
Grade  9                   1,364      1,482      1,860       2,670       2,760       2,840      2,920       3,000       3,090       3,170      3,250       3,330
Grade 10                     984      1,186      1,260       1,580       2,270       2,350      2,410       2,480       2,550       2,620      2,700       2,760
Total                    6,534      8,557     10,080      11,430      12,410     12,780      13,140      13,500      13,870     14,220      1i4,600     14,950
UPPER SECONDARY
Grade il                     433        589         640        685         735         785        835         885         930         980      1,030       1,080
Grade 12                     164        240         410        450         480         515        550         585         620         650         685        720
Grade 13                     109        158         170        290         315         335        360         385         410         435         455        480
Total                      706        987      1,220       1,425       1,530       1,635      1,745       1,855       1,960       2,o65      2,170       2,280
Total secondary          7,240      9,544     11,300      12,855      13,940     14,415      14,885      15,355     15,830      16,285      16,770      17,230
Bases of projections:  Increase in Grade i enrollment by 2% p.a., with some improvement in retention rates.
Promotion rates:        ?rimary - lower secondary 20%; and lower secondary - upper secondary 40%,by 1980/81.
Source:                 Bank staff projections based on Government general policy decisions.
.June, 1971



ANNEX 3
CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Recurrent Expenditures on Education and Training
(CFAF millions)
1970        1973          1975         1977          1980
Budget    Projected    Projected    Projected    Projected
Primary Education         1,234      1,624         1$800        1,980         2,200
Secondary Education         430        690           744          780           830
Teacher Training             32         70           100          125           150
Technical Education        119         120          140           155           170
Higher Education            137 )
)  456           504          555           650
Training under                  )
other Ministries          260 )
Total                  2,212       2,960        3,288         3,595        h,000
Note on assumption. Future expenditures are calculated on the basis of projections
of enrollments and numbers of teachers in Annexes 2 and 6. Allowance is made for
improved maintenaoeof school buildings and equipment and supply of teaching aids.
Expenditure on higher education and on training under Ministries other than the
Ministry of Education has been calculated as a residual for lack of defined
targets in these fields. Cost-saving devices other than those currently in force
have not been considered. Projection figures are in 1971 prices.
June, 1971



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Civiîlian Wage E]aployment, 1970
ODVERNMINT                           PRIVATE SECTOR                                TOL
-Level of   -       Central                                Central                                  Central
Responsibilities       Af ricans    Expatriates    Total       Africans    Expatriates      Total      Africans    Expatriates       Total
A. Professjonals,           358         449          807           327        1,561         1,888           685        2,010         2,695
technical and
related vorkers        )th.ha%      55.66%        0l0          17.3%        82.7%           00%         25.4s%       74.6%          1.00%
B. Clerirsl and             59n         19           899         7,981        2,409        10,390         8,571-       2,718        11,289
adminismtrative
i.'orkers, foremen,
etc.                   65.6%        14.4%         100%         71.8%        23.2%          100%           76%          24%          100%
C. lemi-kiîlled           2,658         13'        2,790         9,500         2,420       11,920        12,158        2,552-       14,710
'i<orkers, craftqmnen,
xervice workers.        95.1%       )4.7%         lO%          79.7%         20.3%         100%         82.7%        17.3%          100%
D. Laborers,              2,976          l,         P,990       23,181           309       23,490        26,157           323       26,480
apprentice workers,
etc.                    99.$%        0.5%         100%         98.7%          1.3%         100%         98.8%         1.2%          100%
6, S8"       99'  1/      7,486       4n,989        6,699        47,688        47,571        7,603        55,174
88%         12%        1î0%            86%          14%          loo%         86.2%        13.8%          100%
o/ 0f which 530 in categories A and B (or 70% of the total for these categorias) provided by bilateral ald.
Sources:  Based on data supplied by the Civil Service Conmission, the Hinistry of Labor, F.A.C. and UNDP.
Category A includes professionais, technicLans and administrators at both high md middle level
and Category B sales and skilled workers.
June, 1971



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Manpower and Education Needs 1970 - 1980
EMPLOYM3NT                                   NEEDS               EDUCATION OUTPUT REQUIREMNTS 1970 - 1980
197(                             1900                                                       For        For next level
Orcupational categories       Centralafricans Expatriates  n Centralafrican  r cxpatriates   1970-1980                             eMlpoyment       of education       Total
A  Professional, technical and                                     i
related workers                         70n          2,000     i     2,800            1,200         2,300       University              1,000              -            1,000
B  Ilerical and administrative                                     l
,wior9ers, eoremen, '-tr.                            2,700 27         13,600           1,500         8,000        Upper Secondary        1,000            1,300          2,300
qemi -k;l11ed workers,
craftsmen, service workers           12,l5-          2,550            18,500             200        11,400        Lawer Seoondary       10,000            6,000         16,000
D  Laborers, apprentice
'eork-rs, etc.                       26,1(0             320     il   33,100              -          17,700
Total               ln7,6iT          7,570           68,100            2,900        39, I0)
Tote on assumptîons.  The information on present manpower stock war derived from Annex 4.  The data were rounded.  The assumptions as to increase in employment,
replarement through attrition and africanization are as follows:
Ocrunarion'nl 2etegories                  Assumptions ai bo the educational profile of Central African high and middle level
A      B        T         D     Total      nawpower in 1980 are as follows:
__,^e<F; r PioymXnt                                                        Occupational
(,rer yds«)                1T  d     rf    'XS?       1.5'f    2.5e,f     categories                              Educational Background
Deo1arrcoent <rer yenrP 2.5%               1      .-T        ,       3.5l           A          4n% University or equivalent; 40% Upper Seoondary; 20% Lower Secondary;
197n   ') e   75e    80  f    98  d   85  Z               B           2P,% Upper Secondary; 40% Lower Secondary; 40% Trade Schools
afi"'îcnivat-.on (as n                                                               C          50% Lower Secondary; 50% Primary Education
f of total emnloyMnfit)  19s)  7'  f   9<    g )'",  96  f
Due to the lack of a corprehensive manpower survey and of olear quantitative targets for Centralafricanization, these assumptions were made on the basis
of oomparisons with other African countri,es ai a sirnilar level of development,
TTune, 1971                                                                                                                                                                    k



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Teacher Demand and Suppîy 1969/70 - 1980/81
1969/70           1980/81         Total requirements-    Total supply
Actual            Target             1969 - 1980          1969  - 1980
Primary education
Enrollment                170,050           233,700
Pupil/teacher ratio         64                50
Teachers: total             2,650 (100%)      4,674 (100%)        3,170
)instituteurs       440 ( 17%)      1,050 ( 22%)          840                   840     from existing ENI
Qualified)
)instituteur-       170 ( 6%)       1,070 ( 23%)        1,030                1030      from existing ENI
adjoints
Unqualified                2,040 ( 77%)      2,554 ( 55%)        1,300                   600   + 1,200 in refresher courses
1970/71           1980/81         Total requirements      Total supply          Total supply    2/
Secondary education       Actual             Target             1970 - 1980        With project ENS  Without project ENS-
Enrollment                  9,544            17,230
Pupil/teacher ratio          31.5              28
Teachers: total               313 (100%)        615 (100%)          362                   362                  362
Central African               67 ( 21%)        441 ( 72%)          435                   435                   250
Expatriate                   246 ( 79%)        174 ( 28%)         - 72              72 (diminution)          + 112 (addition)
1/  Total requirements include expansion needs based on enrollment projections in Annex 2 and replacement
needs of 3% p.a.
2/ On the assumption that the Regional ENS in Brazzaville would train 25 Central African teachers per year.
Source:  Bank staff projections based on Government policy.
,Tle,  1'J71



C  E  N  T  R  A  L    A  F  R  I  C  A  N    R  E  P  U  B  L I  C
Education Project - Summary of Estimated Costs
(in thousands of CFA francs and US$)
Building
Site          Academie &                  Staff                                           Professional       Project        Technical
Planncd Capacity    Development        Communal      Boarding    Housing    Total        Furniture   Equipment   Services          Administration  Assistance  Total Costs
No.       Ptoject Item                Academic Boarding       CFAF            CFAF          CFAF        CFAF        CFAF         CFAF        CFAF          CFAF             CFAF             CFAF       CFAF      us$
j.    Eccle Normale S.perieure
Banguo          u                  150      60         7,460          26,825         25,020      22,750      74,595        3,335      10,000        5,740                                        101,130   395
2.    College d'Application ENS
Bang. i.                          400       60         7,780          45,960         17,790      14,000      77,750        4,115       5,000        5,995                                        100,640   393
3.    College d'Enseignement
3 Coe-ra  Berdberati.             400       60         8,760          55,460         22,240      17,500      95,200        3,995       5,500        6,735                                        120,190   470
4.    College d'Enseignement
General Bangui.                   800      120        14,030          82,030         35,550      22,750    140,330         7,990       8,340       10,800                                        181,490   710
5.    College d'Enseignement
Ceneral Bambari.                  800      120        16,830          98,435         42,660      27,300    168,395         9,050      10,565       11,885                                        216,725   847
6.    Extensioa-Ccllege d'Enseigne-
ment General Sibdt.                800     120         5,730           73,460        30,560      10,585    114,605         6,115       9,635        7,220                                        143,305   560
7.    E.tension-Ly2ce. Boganda
Bansgui.                        1,180       -            720           18,900                                18,900          225       8,340           900                                        29,085   114
S.    Extension-Lycee de
Berberati.                        630       -            830           18,000                                18,000          240       9,175         1,040                                        29,285   115
9.    Extension-Lycee de Bambari.   1,220          -          1,260          25,200                                25,200           420       9,785        1,455                                         38,120   149
10.    Extension-Lycce Bokassa
Bangui.                           930       _            820           16,420                                16,420          225       5,560         1,035                                        24,060    94
1l.    E.tension-Lycce Technique
Bangui.                           800       -          1,055           21,130                                21,130          555      49,485         1,550                                        73,775   288
Sub Total                                             65,275         481,820        173,820    114,885    770,525         36,265     131,385       54,355                                       1057,805  4135
Technical Assistance                                                                                                                                                                 63,950       63,950   250
Project Administration                                                                                                                                               19,460                       19,460    76
Proj-ct Total  Çec-l.ding cnignis
in CFA francs                                         65,275         481,820        173,820    114,885    770,525         36,265     131,385        54,355           19,460          63,950     1146,765  4461
Froject 3oata (excluding contingezosc!-
40 US0 $                                                 255            1,884           679         449       3,012           142         514          212                76            250                4461
March, 1972.



C E N T R A L    A F R I C A N    R E P U B L 1 C
Contingency  Allowances
(in thousands of US dollars)
Site                                                                                Professional           Technical              Project
Development           Building              Furniture              Equipment              Services            Assistance         Administration          Total
LocLocal   Foreig     local   Foreig        Local   Foreign        Local   Foreign       Local   Foreign        Local  Foreign       Local   Foreign   Local  Foreign           TOTAL
Allowances for:
A.  Physical  1/
%                          B                     8                    5                       5                     8                                                            7.2     6.7          7.0
Amount              14.3         6.1      120.5       120.5       5.3        1.8        6.4        19.3       6.8       10.2          -         -           -         -        153.3  157. 9        311.2
B. Price
u                          15                    15                   15                      15                    15                                                          14.2    13.7          13.9
Amsount             26.8        11.5      225.9       225.9     16.0         5.3       19.3        57.8      12.7       19.1          -         -           -          -       300.7  319.6         620.3
C. Total
z                          23                    23                   20                      20                    23                                                          21.4   20.4          20.9
Amsount            41.1        17.6       346.4       346.4     21.3         7.1       25.7        77.1      19.5       29.3          -        -           -          -       454.0  477.5          931.5
Total project cost
(excluding contingencies)          178.6        76.5     1506.1      1506.1   106.3         35.4      128.4       385.2      85.0      127.5         50.0      200.0       68.5        7.6   2122.9 2338.3         4461.2
Total project cost
(including contingencies)          219.7        94.1     1852.5      1852.5    127.6        42.5      154.1       462.3     104.5      156.8         50.0      200.0       68.5        7.6   2576.9 2815,8         5392.7
1/    Such as extra soil tests, minor changes in specifications, changes in design, etc.
March, 2972



C E N T R A L    A F R I C A N    R E P U B L I C
Capital Unit Costs in New Project Schools
(in US Dollars)
Gross Area Student         Site                                                        Unit Capital Costs in
Place m             Development   Building   Furniture   Equipment   Total          Neighboring Countries *
Academic and
Communal Facilities
Secondary Schools             3.4                   46             468        27            42         583          850 (Cameroon)
550 (Gabon)
Secondary Teacher
Training College              5.5                    69            699        43           239        1050          943 (Congo (B))
1270 (Gabon)
1749 (Sudan)
Boarding
Secondary Schools             9.2                   126           1289        88            54        1557         1180 (Cameroon)
1240 (Gabon)
1671 (Chad)
Secondary Teacher
Training College             12.4                   163           1630        109           53        1955         1346 (Cameroon)
1927 (Zaire)
Gross Area per Unit
Staff Houses                   131                 1925          19591                               21516        18000 (Cameroon)
20000 (Congo (B))
1/  Professional fees and contingencies are not included.
*    At 1970 prices.
March, 1972



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
Implementation Schedulel/
Year                             First              Second                 Third               Fourth
Quarter                     1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
A. Implementation Chart
1. Civil works
Phase I (extensions)               I/I  *                     xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx   ..+II  +++  +++
Phase II (3 C.E.G. s)                   //   *                     xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  III  lll  +++  ...
Phase III (Ecole Norm.Sup.               /l   *                    xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  xxx  +4+  +++-1 1I11-
and Teaching practice C.E.G)
2. Furniture                                                lll  1Ill ill  000  000  000  000  III  +++  +++II
3. Eguipment                                                lil  lil  Ili  Ili  000  000  000  000  +++  +l+  +++- +++
B.  Project Unit                        ###  ###  ###  ###  ###  ###  ###  ##É#  ###  ###  ###  f##  ###  ###  ###  #*#
C. Technical Assistance
2/   2/
Architect                          77%M 7   777/ 77 7%7/  7  7% 7/ 7   77   77o%7  7//   77/  %7
Educator                                       /0/   %%0 /0/o/ %b/o/  /0/  /0O/ /o/o/.7 /% D/%%  %°/°.  /17  /7/°/%  O//o%
Education finance speciaList  |               /         o/%   7o7| 
Legend:   //  Site surveys
***  Architect;s brief (cost studies, design standards and sketch scheme approvals)
::: Preparation of drawings, tendering, bid evaluation, approvals, awards
xxx  Construction period
+++  Defects liability (construction) and Guarantee Period
111  Preparation of furniture and equipment master lists, tendering, bid evaluation, approval and awards
000  Furniture and Equipment procurement period
###  Time Schedule Project Unit
/0/%/O Technical Assistance
]/ Implementation starts from effective date of Credit Agreement.                                                            O
2/ Comparative study of wood versus concrete,de sign brief for architects.
July, 1971



ANNEX 1!_
C E N T R A L    AFRICAN    R E P U B L ï C
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
Undisbursed
Quarter *    Quarterly Disbursements    Accumulated Disbursements    Total Balance
US$ (000's)           Z        US$ (000's)        US$ (000's)
1               -                            -            -                 3,900.0
2              0.5          19.5           0.5            19.5              3,880.5
3              0.3          11.7           0.8            31.2              3,849.3
4              1.0          39.0           1.8             70.2             3,810.3
5              1.4          54.6           3.2            124.8             3,755.5
6              1.0          39.0           4.2            163.8             3,716.5
7              1.6          62.4           5.8           226.2              3,654.1
8              6.0         234.0          11.8           460.2              3,420.1
9             11.1         432.9          22.9           893.1              2,987.2
10             15.0         585.0          37.9         1,478.1              2,402.2
il             17.2         670.8          55.1         2,148.9              1,731.4
12             10.0         390.0          65.1         2,538.9              1,341.4
13              9.6         374.4          74.7         2,913.3                967.0
14             10.7         417.3          85.4         3,330.6                549.7
15              6.1         237.9          91.5         3,568.5                311.8
16              2.0          78.0          93.5         3,646.5                233.0
17              6.5         253.5         100.0         3,900.0                  0
100.0      3,900.0
Source: Annex 10
*  Starting from the date of effectiveness
March 20, 1972.






IÏ    II             2~~~RR 2          IRI           TE           ELA             ETRR                                                           ARAA           RUI              AR           R   O
lIR         IA. E4                                                                                                 . TR4RRRER        F'EU.CTT
ARFTRE         IFLRIF20A
Il  LEL  <31            AR              AR             T)                  R           ARR          TIR              117~~~~~~~~~7P   4  RAI      IA                713
AF-FREAF-  RT   A             I RAT            RT              RT            4.7             R.R               TE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7  AR  A                R            LAA4R 
TF-AF-RF-  AR        ARR              TEAR              FA            TRRR            7~~    ~     ~~.2   AA            7              A             IE              lE            A                              C
'.FFF~~F-~RF.RFA.EF-E.   RT     îA.TA            RFA-FA            TA             ARIlILRT                                                        T            E                O             02                              T
IFEF-.  R'          IRE.]               AIT             ET             RT I           T-T~         ~~~~        ~      ~~       ~      ~~ ~        ~~       ~       ~ RTR  T2E A    E              I-T
TAR.7-R                                          R           R.  E            RT                F              R               .            R-                   '             TTL4TS                                     RTARER
EETEF-RFTT          T             AR             R.RTE                             RA            RA              T-T                A             R            TI               .- T2TRRET
RTATF-T  TE   LT                RER            RF             ART            RF             IF.)               n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  AT E              A            AR             R                 R
RR.R   A.  -.2  EFALA        TRRIH             AR            HRTT            T.E            LR.R               El              A,          ET                -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4  Ï  HT    ..            51E
~~ TF-TF-F-TF- -LFF-RRIRT      RRRARE~ ~ ~ ~~~~~7l14                                                                                                                                           ~        1 
îR'. F-TF-AR-R-TT FI TFFA.~*.'. EAUF-LAFLL  '.FFFT  TRF-FF  RT         R.T               ARR            RT              LE C          1.1T            RT  AT           'RT              RT          AR R4-RT                       ER             AA T             IIl
FTAF-F-IRFRFAIF-R'.C~AFLEFFTE'îR  AFFR'.T                     AT              .3               LI             TE              T             AR             1.1                TT73                        RTT              HR             R             RT' I4T
RF-FFELF-F-TPFFT   RELF-FL~F-FFFTT.LLUFF  R p'.'  H             A.                RAA              AC            lE            TA             Il-   C            TA35                        AF                RU           ARLE1F
A  TCF-A                   TE             T.R~~~~I   I4                     l IR FI-RT                                  L-
FA' RFF--FRIR  FA  'L'.R  -F-AFF-R'.  T  F-R-   . R.>RAIIl                                      7.1LA  T                           T              RT            RA            R-                  RS             A            TL                             FI            -I --- 
ATARI FRAF   CA          EE.I                IRA             I              Il           A.7R           LITE               RT              RT           A                T            RT             HT                AT4 
T. TFTFF   RT   R.T E           RER            ET 15          IL T           5.1 I          LT.R  E            15             AH A         LT               LT            LT R            I               --~l, 1~  Î  1.1  211 
RE.LLF-AACTFF-RURAAJLLR'.îF-LA.   FF-RF-TI'.-  RTC>'...           I            RTC               TAIR              -            AT            R.T            LAIT                R              AH 4                          TE            LE            TAI              11
RRF-FLIETEF-'..LRAR   FIRF.RLR-FITTRLR'  17    RAF.'                     RT             .T               TAA             lER                          3.1            LAT                 LLA R6ARRT                                                TAIII4F
AI. HIAARFTFTUF   RI       RAI               AT                 RT          A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41  41        Il                                 Il   T      RTSA                            FR,lR
LRFRERTFTTLFALR F~~~FTTEEEFLF~~~TFFL~  A..~~FRAF                     .7            9T4                 R7            1               I             'RT           IRRI                RT2I                         5                             17 RARTI
RFEFTIFTF-TF-RHRFFAFFLAF-RRR  11. IFF,L.F                   LT~~7         12E               AI              IL              T              .            1                   IRA            RT          AI                 52L 
EF- yA FFAF  .LFR.FLRRA    E
F..F...F.L        . A EF- HL FF7RTF FR         LTT CIlAAA       TA74
*RETA~~LLUF-T.F-TF-FALRRLRFLR~~~~  EL.TTF-LTFRF-R  T.7TT.  Il  R-TE    TRIE           FIEF             T            T.L            17.1               RT             AR           AI                E            ET             LA              RFA1 II  44 
. ......RF.R.A.                                                                                    A R.             F  A           RTTA           RF             T-   A             T               1           R         A6                                  AI P4 
TIRTTAFFTRFnRARAF-LLTRRURR   ITILHRAFTRRFRFRFFRF                     RT~~7          RE                RE 4TTA                          l           AR            LE9                 RT             TF           A2               E             TA             IL              A7
RT            RF                TIT             R              T              .              T.                 A               A           RR T1.                                                         I
URLLLRRRAFFHAF-TFFF  TAL7FFRA.-RRRF-E-.ATRFFTA  RTRTRAF     TA            AR'.              7311            LIA           FR5            TAFIl  I-T- AT-                    AR             IlII        LA .             SI             THT(13 -38,    Il AIlFU    l  LIC
AA. T--TF-RF-   T.   1.1  T           HI--           TT I          AR              î.T  I        ~~~~       ~       ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~17.  72  7R R 1T               R          L              IlE      
V. TERRA FRE    LT           13.2                AIR            RR            AR              1.3            LA~~~~~~2          FL             TE           TA2                            21             IIT 
TERRTTF-TRFFEFAHILFF-F-AAFFAF-RAFALFF.LTR ~ ~ ~       ~          ~         ~         ~         ~        ~        IZ
7RATAR  F-TE R~~~F-F-F-ERALAF  F-TF -<'.'. R  RITAI-
Y. ORFAF- RT'.î.F--R  RH  TI.R  151 E  17      LA             T.A           L .1                RT              A2          RH R             FR            25             55             TRI~~~~~~~~21I81I






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC:  STRUCTURE OF THE EDUCATIONAL SYSTEM  1971
PRIMARY                                   LOWER  SECONDARY         -    --      UPPER  SECONDARY                 -        POST  SECONDARY                   _
|      2           3  ART & TRADE SHOO
TERNICAL EWDCATION
VOCATIONP.I SCHOOL S
TECHNICAL LYCEE
! j.   ~              o ---~ HIGHER EDUCATION (ARCOAD)
GIRLS PRIMARY
TEACHER TRAINING
PRItMARY TEACH4ER TRA&INING
7                       (E. N. 1.N)
1C. E. G. )IPREPARATORY YEARS )
GENERAL REtUCHERON                                      _                                                 3       4'                        7               1 b-1         SECONDARY TEACHEI TRAINING (E.N.S.)
&  TEACHIER                                                                     ......   ...........    ...
TRAINING
-2     3       4      S       O               .1         2          3       4  .:  _    ÉT                            HIGHER EDUCATION (A3ROAD)
....... .- *---- £NERAL         LYCEES
{  3     _2          INSTITUTE OP PURLIC AERAINITTRATION
ROKA-S UNIVERSITY, RANGER (..d .0HdIe
UNIVERSITY INSTITUTE 0F
i   ENIRACI CEXAOOMINAXTIOTO                                                                                                      i L                AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY
L[AVINC, EXINATUON                                    AGRICULTURAL                          AGRICULTURAL TECHNICIAN SCHOOL IIWAKOMRO)
PRIMARY LEAVING EXAMINATION                         _                                          3       A
1    LOWER SECONDARY EXAMINAIION R8.E.P C.l
AGEICUIIURAL                                                                       TRAININC, CENTIERS
EDUCATION              )   RACCALAUREAT
TO BE PROVIDED OR EXPANDED RY PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE (GRIMERI)
SCHOOL OF ANIMAL HUS8ANDRY (<OUAR)
SCHOO YA                     2      3               S      6                  7       8            9     10          11      12     13              14     IS
AGE     6       7       8       9      10      11                12       13          14     15          16      17     1< 19                   2D
h-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Note The Age /G,od. telr ;oosh.p opplSes ooly .ohen sIodeots moeI primî8
IRE D-5872






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC: GENERAL EDUCATION ENROLLMENTS 1969-70
TECHNICAL & VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENTS 1970-71
ENROLLÂRENT AS    O F
GRADE           % INCREASE OVER 1961/92                                                                       8   Y S                          G i R L                                                AGE GROUP
UPPER SECONDARY       (GENERAL ENROLLMENTS ONLY)
13             808                                                                                                       9 i12
UPPER
1 2            4 4 7                                                                                         i1         143       1-- | 21                                                            C(UCYCLE
Il             820                                                                                                                      42       [6 
SECONDARY
( 3.5%#)
LOWER SECONDARY
10             360                                                                                                      851
9             411                                                                                                    1,185                                                                            LOWER
---                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CYCLE
204                                                                                                   I399                                                                            (5.2%)
O7-*Ge.erol edu,cotion                                   
7              186                                                                                                                      469 Tn,micol &
Vooiolnol .ducntion
PRlIMARY
6             213
5   143                                                          <                    ~~~~~~    ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,209  3,836 
5              143
13,994         S,620                                                             PRIMARY
4             133                                                                                                                                                                                     (73%)
3             1 27                                                             1                                    17,898          8,451
23,865         12,343
2             1 43                                                                                                                                                                                                                          >-
I   1 08  1                   §                           |                           i              37;042          21,195                                                        ,
30,000                      20,000                       10,000                        °                         10,000                       20,000
IRRD - 5871






CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                          A FR1 A
N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IG
.A7      BIRAO
~~~~ OR*m     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ W  AR ~~~~ ~ ~ W !~t.
}~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 t- (t.i pmi. Ss.t                                                           rM---
> ~~~~~~~~~~lv                                  A .     B  b ..t ;\
N      G~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
*  i ;S.oondo~y T~y , S~, B ANG IJ
> ~~~~~~~AOB0 CBIK                   on                                                REPU 'i   Of  °AIR
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~               ~        ~~~~~~~~~~ 2 oe $oondo (lliR p0ooic. Sdoo1. BA-NG1 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i .yé T..h..,.. MNU
....H1972IBR3554 4 ,                                     a   o     ,,.
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~  Si*u  LAR Soonoy Sdoi BAMIPIARI                 /~
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 I\\                    foeo -w  Wr, _A~J                    j                  LRI Irb,r 0d
\  SALO   i   A9   9         9 4 L~~~~~~~~~~~~Oer SAWA, dry 5ci,E 8ANCiUi
O ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~  ~~~~~~~~ _                                                Bt O*    Bt    LB i?i 5t  BawU  Raodr  Rt»i iiAhC3ACI
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O R,,RR  A -       f    O° 11l  £ xtoeisor. - LyCRtBd,iWCgd,  MNP2OIJ cbniAE
MARCH 1972                                                                                                                              IBRD 3554R



