Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17001
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 53 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF ERITREA
FORA
HUMAN RESOURCES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
DECEMBER 10, 1997
Institutional and Social Policy
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Entrean Nakfa
US$ 1.00 = Nakfa 7.10
I Nakfa= US$ 0.140
US$ 1.00 = SDR 1.37
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AWPB         Annual Work Program and Budget
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CSR          Civil Service Reform
DAC          Development Assistance Committee
DO           Development Objectives
EFMP         Economic and Financial Management Program
EOP          End of Project
ERREC        Eritrean Rehabilitation and Relief Commission
GAAS         Generally Accepted Accounting Standard
GOE          Government of Eritrea
HiD          Human Resources Development
IDA          International Development Association
Ip           Implementation Progress
LS           Local Shopping
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation:
MIS          Management Information System
MOE          Ministry of Energy
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
OECD         Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PCD          Project Concept Document
PCU          Project Coordinating Unit
QCBS         Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
RRPE         Recovery and Rehabilitation Program for Eritrea
SOE          Statement of Expenditures
TTL          Task Team Leader
TOR          Terms of Reference
UA           University of Asmara
UNDP         United Nations Development Program
WB           World Bank
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Oey Astra Meesook
Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
Task Team Leader: Laura Frigenti



Eritrea
Human Resources Development Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ............................................................2
1. Project development objective and key perfornance indicators ........................................2
B. Strategic Context ............................................................2
1.  Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...........................................................2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ............................................................. 2
3.  Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................ ...................3
C. Project Description Summary .............................................................4
1. Project components .............                                                               4
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   .4
3. Benefits and target population                                  .4
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                           .5
D. Project Rationale                                           .8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                    .8
2.  Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    .            9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                     .9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .10
E. Summary Project Analyses .10
1. Economic .10
2. Financial .1.......... 1
3. Technical ..    11
4. Institutional ..                                                                              12
5. Social ..                                                                                     12
6. Environmental..                                                           .   12
7. Participatory approach ..                                                                     12
F. Sustainability and Risks ..                                                                        13
1. Sustainability ..    13
2. Critical risks ..                                                                             14
3. Possible controversial aspects ..                                                             14



G.   M ain  Loan  Conditions  ....................................................................................... .......... 15
1. Effectiveness conditions                        .................... 15
2. Other .................... 15
H. Readiness for Implementation           ....................... 15
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ....................... 15
ANNEXES
Annex 1:  Project Design Summary
Annex 2:  Detailed Project Description
Annex 3:  Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4:  Economic Analysis
Annex 5:  Financial Summary
Annex 6:  Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A:  Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B:  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C:  Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7:  Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File
Annex 9:  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Map



Eritrea
Human Resources Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
African Region
Eastern Africa 3
Date: December 10, 1997                                 Task Team Leader: Laura Frigenti
Country Director: Oey Astra Meesook                     Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
Project ID: 50354        Sector: Multi-Sectoral         Program Objective Category:
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan            Program of Targeted Intervention:  [   Yes  [XI No
Project Financing Data                   [I Loan       [X] Credit        [  Guarantee        [  Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): 66 over five years; IDA 53
Proposed terms:                           [xl  Multicurrency       []  Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10           1    Standard Variable    [ ]  Fixed          [      LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: N.A.
Service charge: .75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                Local               Foreign            Total
Government                                                       13.76                                  13.76
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                                                   53.00             53.00
Other (specify)
Total           13.76               53.0              66.76
Borrower:
Guarantor:
Responsible agency(ies):
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):          1998         1999       2000    2001    2002   2003    2004
Annual        3.32        9.35        9.27     9.26     9.26   9.10    3.44
Cumulative        3.32       12.67      21.94    31.20    40.46  49.56   53.00
For Guarantees:                                    [    Partial credit     [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage: N.A.
Project sponsor: N.A.
Nature of underlying financing: N.A.
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (USS) N.A.
Final maturity N.A.
Amortization profile N.A.
Financing available without guarantee?:N.A.            [     Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: N.A.
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: N.A.
Project implementation period:  Expected effectiveness date: February 1, 1998 Expected closing date: August 1, 2003
1



A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and keyperformance indicators (see Annex 1):
The Project Development Objective is to improve the capacity of Government institutions in a sustainable
fashion, by resolving the major problem posed by the acute shortage of skilled and professional manpower.
The instruments identified to achieve this objective are the recruitment of trained people to fill the gaps in
the central ministries, the University of Asmara (UA), and the Teacher Training institutes, and the training
abroad of approximately 500 Eritreans at BA level and above, who will eventually replace them.
The Govermnent stressed the fact that this project needs to be seen as the first step of a longer-term
collaboration between the Government of Eritrea and IDA in this sector.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: Report # 15324-ER   Date of latest CAS discussion: February 5, 1996
The primary objectives of IDA's assistance strategy are: (i) assisting Eritrea in the overall process of
growth and development; (ii) supporting the development of the human resources base of the country as the
key input in the growth process and as a means of increasing income-eaniing prospects of the population;
and, (iii) assisting with the strengthening of the physical infrastructure, both to support private sector
development and to facilitate the provision of public services to the people. The project provides strong
support to the first two objectives of the CAS. By enhancing the Government's capacity to develop a
policy and regulatory enviromnent conducive to the development of the public as well as the private sector
(both domestic and foreign), it supports the first CAS objective. The second objective is supported by the
strengthening of the teaching and research capacity of the UA and the teacher training institutes.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The Government Human Resources Development Eritrea's Human Resources Development Strategy
has to address and keep a balance among a host of competing needs. Eritreans are well aware that to build
a strong, globally competitive nation, they will need an educated and healthy population. At a minimum
that means universal primary education and access to basic health, followed by ever higher levels of
learning for the great majority of the population of the country to be able to grow rapidly in the future.
Yet, the country must also grow now, relying on the existing level of skills and knowledge that have been
arrested or severely depleted by decades of war. To help them in this difficult balancing act of developing
their hunan resources at the most rapid rate possible (given physical and financial constraints), the
Eritreans have devised a strategy that has both formal and informal components. On the formal side is the
usual sequence of schools nmning from primary to university level, with some attention to the balance
between needs for technical knowledge and the broader, more flexible academic orientation. The informal
strand of the strategy, on the other hand, tries to deal with Eritrea's legacy of high adult illiteracy, within
the context of the urgent need to develop some basic technical and entrepreneurial skills needed for either
formal or informal employment. This strand of the strategy also tries to address the need for continuous in-
service upgrading of skills and knowledge as well as to take care of the learning needs of adolescents and
young adults, who have discontinued their schooling. These two groups may need some help to reach the
standards required to enter a particular (higher) level of formal education, or, if their formal education is
for the time being at an end, to acquire skills that allow them to participate in the economic and civic life to
as full a potential as possible. There is great concern in Eritrea about minimizing the wastage of human
potential at all levels. To analyze the allocation of scarce resources among competing uses, within the
education sector as well as to put fiscally sustainable targets on the overall education budget, the Ministry
of Education has developed a detailed simulation model in cooperation with a group from Cornell
University.
2



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The fulfillment of the Government's vision critically depends on a rapid rate of development now and in
the near future. To set the right course for and to kick-start a rapid and sustained development process
requires a minimum set of high-level skills and knowledge that are at the moment not available in Eritrea in
sufficient quantity. For this reason the Eritreans identified over 1,600 positions in the central ministries
(excluding the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Interior and the 6 regional administrations, whose
reform process has not been completed yet) and at the UA for which knowledge at the BA level or above is
necessary if the current high rates of growth are to be sustained and improved on.
Why 1,600? This number has emerged from a laborious two-phase restructuring process of the civil
service that has been going on for over two years. In the first phase there was a functional review of all
ministries accompanied by the setting of objectives for each ministry in the pursuit of an overall
development vision for Eritrea. Having established these objectives, the Eritrean Government determined
what skills and knowledge are needed to achieve them, and then matched these needs with the skills of the
existing staff, person by person (some 30,000 positions and people were reviewed). In the end, about a
third of the civil servants were found to be redundant or did not possess the needed skills and lost their jobs.
The remainder got a substantial salary increase. There exists extensive documentation of the entire
procedure.
Phase two of the civil service reform was even more radical. This time the goal was to create a set of
centrl ministries that perform only four basic functions: (i) policy formulation; (ii) regulation; (iii) applied
research and development; and, (iv) human resources development (in their sector). This meant that all
production of goods and delivery of services was to be shed, with some of the goods and services to be
delivered in the future by the private sector, and the rest either by the six regional administrations or
various authorities or commercialized public enterprises. Additional guidelines for restructuring were that
overlaps among ministries were to be eliminated and that the resulting structures of the ministries had four
properties. They were to be lean (lowest possible number of employees), efficient (cut out unnecessary
hierarchy or procedural steps), transparent, and effective. The outcome of this process is a central
government with 16 ministries (out of 18) totaling about 5,000 employees (fewer than 2 per 1,000
Eritreans). Of this complement of 5,000, there are about 1,600 vacancies of which 600 would be filled
through recruitment from abroad, because they require an education at MA level or above (including
medical doctors, and a few specialized BAs) and the rest could be filled with Eritreans trained at lower
levels (BA degree and various diplomas and certificates). For this domestic training to succeed, some of
the foreign recruits would be professors at-the UA and at the Pre-University of Mendefera, and some would
teach in the Teacher Training Institute, in technical and vocational institutes, and in secondary schools.
3



C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 or a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project has three main components: (i) extemal recruitment of international experts to fill 500 key
positions in the UA, the Civil Service and the teacher training institutes; (ii) external training of about 500
Eritrean nationals of which 350 will be at the MA level, 80 at the Ph.D. level, and 70 at the BA level in
highly specialized disciplines; and (iii) institutional strengthening of the UA and the governmental
ministries to implement the program as well as to monitor and evaluate its progress and achievements.
Component          Cate ory       Cost Incl.    % of       Bank-      % of Bank-
Contingencies    Total    financing   financing
(US$M)                 (US$M)
Recruitment of Foreign  Fees and travel  50.55       76.5%       36.80        72.8%
Experts              costs of
international
experts
Foreign Training of  Tuition, travel     14.83       22.5%       14.83        100%
Eritrean Nationals   and subsistence
costs of some
500 Eritreans
abroad
Institutional        Fees, training,     .65          1%           .64        98.5%
Strengthening of the  consultant
UA, Human Resources  services, travel
Development units in    costs,
central ministries, and   equipment,
the Project Coordination  operating costs
Unit'
*10%
contingencies is
included in the
cost of each
component
(total
contingencies
5.68)
i__________________       Total      66.03       100%        52.27        79.2%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
By improving the capacity of Government institutions the project will support key policy and institutional
reforms, whose content and area cannot be anticipated at the present stage.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project will contribute to solve the problems posed by the acute shortage of highly skilled and
professional manpower, which has become a critical bottleneck to the implementation of the national
development program and to the sustained rapid growth of the economy. Specifically, the project is
expected to have the following benefits:
4



(i) by filling 500 strategic positions in the civil service with intemational experts, it will improve
the institutional capacity of 16 central ministries, the UA, and teacher training institutes to
formulate, implement and monitor policy measures and reforms;
(ii) by training abroad 350 Eritrean nationals at MA level, 80 at Ph.D. level, and 70 at BA level in
highly specialized technical areas, it will develop a pool of highly qualified professionals who
will replace the expatriates and make the process sustainable;
(iii) by strengthening the UA, the Human Resources Development units of central ministries, and the
Project Coordination Unit, it will build in the country a permanent and sustainable
mechanism to identify the needs in terms of professional skills emerging from both private and
public sectors, develop research capacity, and monitor the labor market.
Target Population:
(i) The immediate beneficiaries of the first component will be the central government, the UA, and
teacher training institutions, whose institutional capacity will be strengthened;
(ii) The immediate beneficiaries of the second component will be the 500 Eritrean nationals who will
be trained abroad;
(iii) A third category of beneficiaries will be all those Eritreans who will be trained by the teachers
and professors recruited and trained through the project;
(iv) Finally, the project will benefit the whole population, because of its impact on the overall process
of growth and development of the country.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
A Project Implemnentation Plan has been prepared by the Government team. It is a substantially
satisfactory document which has been finalized and agreed upon during negotiations. It includes the basic
guidelines for procurement of goods and services, disbursement arrangements, accounting and reporting
requirements. The following are the main implementation arrangements:
(i) Implementation Period: five years.
(ii) Executing Agency: The overall coordination of the Human Resources Development Project is
mandated to the UA and the President of the University is charged with the overall responsibility
of coordinating the project. A Project Coordination Unit (PCU) will be established within the
UA to implement and administer the project. It will operate as one of the semi-autonomous units
of the University, with the single and specific task of managing the Human Resources
Development Project. It will be headed by a local Project Manager and will comprise five
additional local technical staff: (i) computerized systems/data base specialist, (ii) training
specialist, (iii) recruitment specialist; (iv) monitoring and evaluation specialist, and (v) finance
and accounts specialist. In addition, the PCU will have two local secretaries. The Project
Manager will report directly to the President of the University. Terns of Reference (TORs) for
each professional staff of the PCU are included in the Project Implementation Plan. The Project
Manager will be appointed by the Government upon recommendation of the University President.
All other posts within the PCU will be recruited by open competition through advertisements
placed in the local media. Successful candidates will be recruited for an initial period of two
years, renewable if the evaluation of the performance is positive.
5



(iii) Powers and Responsibilities of the PCU: These shall include: (i) ensuring that the operations of
the unit are carred out in accordance with the directives establishing the project and in
accordance with the overall project management policy of the University, as well as in
accordance with the Project Inplementation Plan; (ii) screening, recommending, rejecting or
deferring training and/or recruitment requirements presented by the human resources
development units of the line ministries; (iii) reviewing the Annual Work Program and Budget
forwarded by the human resources development units of the line ministries, and preparing a
consolidated project plan for each year and submitting for approval; (iv) developing an objective,
transparent and competitive method (based on academic qualifications and relevant work
experience) for the screening and selection of candidates both for training, as well as for
recruitment; (v) undertaking procurement as detailed out in the PIP; (vi) assisting the human
resources development units of the line ministries through continuous in-service training to
enhance their capability in the use of computerized database to facilitate appraisal,
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of project activities; (vii) preparing a consolidated
Annual Work Program and Budget for the Human Resources Development Project, as well as
quarterly reports; (viii) monitoring the financial performance of the project; (ix) preparing
replenishment applications; and, (x) conducting training and research directed at improving the
capacity ofthe PCU as well as the human resources development units of the ministries.
(iv) Project Coordination: Two committees will provide policy support and guidance for the Project
as well as enable bottlenecks that get identified to be addressed. The committee that will oversee
the implementation of the Government's Human Resources Development Strategy (policy
committee) will provide overall oversight of the Project and will ensure that the implementation
of the Human Resources Development program remains consistent with overall government
policy. It will meet periodically. The President of the UA will represent the project on this
committee. A second committee (technical committee) will meet regularly to assess project
needs and performance. This working technical committee will comprise the PCU manager plus
key representatives from each ministry's human resources development unit and the UA. The
purpose of the technical committee is to enable the smooth working of both the placement of
external experts and the training of local staff who will eventually replace the experts. While the
committee will meet to discuss overall coordination issues, the PCU will work regularly with the
ministerial and the UA human resource development staff to identify both foreign expert needs
and training of local staff/replacement of experts. The project, through the PCU, will provide
computerized equipment and training to the UA and ministerial human resource staff to enable
them to prepare specialized terms of reference for positions, to handle the monitoring and
evaluation of performance of foreign experts, to monitor the training of local staff, as well as the
transition period between foreign and local staff to enable a smooth transfer of responsibilities.
Finally, a third committee (Project Review Committee) composed of the University President, the
PCU manager and representatives of the MOF, Macropolicy and International Cooperation, and
IDA will review the previous year financial and activity report, as well as the Annual Work
Program and Budget for the coming year. This will allow the project to have sufficient flexibility
to review and adjust its plans on an annual basis.
(v) Implementation Modalities:. An important part of the implementation will be the flexibility to
adjust the targets as the need arises. As the project unfolds, there may be need for only one-year
assignments, in the case where only limited external training is required. The project is based on
the assumption that the targets will be adjusted with experience. The PCU will prepare an
Annual Work Program and Budget which will take the form of a two-year rolling budget with the
second year merely serving as an indicative plan. The Annual Work Program and Budget will
include: (a) description of the number of experts required per each professional category,
required level of qualification, length of assignment, salary range, travel costs and administrative
costs as related to charges of service provider and expected costs to be incurred by the interview
6



panel; (b) description of the number of students, the type of professional areas and the planned
level of training, type of institutions, tuition fees, travel costs, living allowances and other
administrative costs, as related to student management fees; (c) staff, equipment, and other cost
requirements for the PCU based on estimated work-load; (d) consolidated budget showing both
capital as well as recurrent costs; and, (e) a disbursement schedule.
(vi) Monitoring and Evaluation: A strong monitoring and evaluation capability will be a critical part
of the project, given the need to assess individual performance of the foreign experts, to assess
the benefits of the training received by local staff, and to measure the overall capacity building
impact of the project. Monitoring and evaluation will be done both at the individual, the
ministerial -and the overall project level. The individual monitoring will be done by the human
resources units in the ministries, the UA and the teacher training institutes. PCU and human
resources development staff will receive specialized training to enable them to prepare
monitoring and evaluation plans for the ministries and the UA. Monitoring of the individual
performance: The monitoring and evaluation would start with the TOR for each position which
would be prepared in a way that specific tasks were identified (preparing annual economic
reports, set up a soil science laboratory, etc.), or process illustrated (contribute to annual
economic report, etc.). Annual performance measurements would be used to track performance,
based on inputs from subordinates, peers and supervisors and related to expectations as specified
in the TORs. Special education related criteria would be prepared for the teachers in the
secondary/vocationalteacher training schools, based on output and feedback from students,
peers and supervisors. For faculty in the UA, specific indicators could be used such as students
evaluation on the lecturers teaching skills, number of published research papers and annual
evaluation by peers and supervisors. Monitoring of ministerialWUA performance: The human
resources development units in the ministries and the UA at the beginning of the project would
prepare the capacity building goals that they expect the project to meet for their ministries/UA.
This would be done with the participation of ministerial department heads and the UA faculty
deans. To help with this process, the PCU will assist the ministrieslUA in preparing surveys and
in using other information gathering techniques to enable preparation of baseline data. The
ministries/UA would conduct annual reviews to determine progress against the initial capacity
building targets, and they will use these review to make adjustments in project components. An
end of the project evaluation will be undertaken by each ministry/UA to determine if the project
met its initial or amended capacity building goals. The PCU will aggregate the initial or baseline
ministerial/UA goals as well as the annual and end of project progress reports. The PCU's
aggregate reports will be the main monitoring and evaluation reporting mechanisms on project
performance, both ongoing and at completion, and its impact on capacity building. The PCU's
monitoring and evaluation reports will be submitted to the governmental committee that is
overseeing implementation of the Human Resources Development Strategy. The validity of the
procedures developed for the selection of trainees, the profiling of the training program and the
selection of the training institutions as well as the progress of the students during their training
period will be constantly monitored. The data collected through the monitoring process will be
stored in a data-base which will provide the information needed to generate the quarterly and
annual reports. Annual review of the PCU performance will also be conducted. The evaluation
will assess the efficiency of the PCU management as well as the impact of the project on the
beneficiaries. The cost-effectiveness of the project will also be evaluated vis-a-vis the cost of
training and the cost of recruitment of experts in relation to the improvement in individual as well
as institution performance outputs.
(vii) Reporting: The PCU will prepare quarterly reports to monitor progress of the project activities
to be submitted to the Bank. These reports will consolidate information received from individual
ministries/UA, and their essential components will include: (a) progress in the implementation
with reference to the Annual Work Program and Budget; (b) financial and administration report;
7



and, (c) an assessment of the overall performance and of the major bottlenecks. At the end of
each year the PCU will also prepare an annual progress report, which will be submitted to the
MOF and IDA and will be used as the basis for formulating the Annual Work Progran and
Budget for the forthcoming year. A Mid-term Evaluation, carried out by an independent
specialist selected by the Government in agreement with IDA, will take place after 30 months of
implementation to: (a) detennine whether satisfactory progress is being made towards meeting
the project objectives; (b) evaluate the impact of the project on the beneficiaries; (c) assess the
quality of the performance of the TA and training provided; and, (d) determine whether there is a
need to modify any practice. An Implementation Completion Report will be prepared jointly by
the Government and the Bank within six months of the end of the project.
(viii) Accounting, Audit and Financial Reporting: The PCU will be responsible for accounting, audit
and financial reporting activities. Fund accounts will be maintained in accordance with
Generally Accepted Accounting Standards (GAAS) on a PC-based accounting program.
Training will be provided to the PCU staff to fimiliarize them with the accounting and MIS
program before the beginning of project implementation. The annual financial statements will be
audited in accordance with International Standards of Auditing by independent auditors
acceptable to the Government and the Association. The audited financial statements with the
auditor's report thereon and the auditor's management letter covering internal control and
accounting procedures weaknesses discovered as a result of the audit, will be sent to IDA within
six months of the end of the period audited.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
(i) Hiring short-term advisors versus recruitment of long-term foreign experts. An alternative to
the recruitment of international experts might have been hiring short-term advisors for in-service
training of Eritrean professionals. This alternative was considered not viable because: (i) as a
result of the process of restructuring the civil service it emerged that some 1,600 positions were
vacant, and therefore there was immediate need for filling the gaps with producers rather than
advisors; (ii) short-term advisor-type technical assistance generally has a low impact and does not
allow the foreign experts to fully understand the needs and requirements of the beneficiary country
and institution; and, (iii) the strategy of external technical assistance selected is cost-effective as
discussed in the economic analysis section.
(ii) Training in-service versus training abroad. Out of the 1,600 vacancies identified, it is expected
that about 1,000 will be filled with people trained in Eritrea. The remaining 600 will be sent
abroad. An alternative to the training abroad might have been in-service training. This option has
been rejected for several reasons: (i) the skills needed require a level of qualification which would
not have been possible to achieve by in-service training; (ii) the strategy adopted for training
abroad is cost-effective as discussed in the section on the economic analysis; (iii) in-service training
would have been effective in the case of upgrading existing skills, while in the specific case of
Eritrea, the skills required were not available in the country and needed to be created.
(iii) Choice of coordinating Agency. Several institutions could have been chosen as coordinator for
the Human Resources Development Project. Among these the Ministry of Education, the Office of
the President, etc. The Government decided to give the responsibility to coordinate the design and
implementation of the HRD program to the University of Asmara. Another possible alternative
could have been to have the project fragmented in different components, each of them coordinated
by the relevant line ministry. This option is not advisable, firstly because there is need for central
coordination and accountability, and secondly because there are economies of scale in centralizing
the management of the whole program.
8



2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bankand/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                   Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
lmplementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Recovery and                   S               S
Rehabilitation Program
for Eritrea (RRPE)
Economic and Financial
Management Project
(EFMP financed within
the framework of RRPE)
Eritrea Community              S               S
Development Fund
TA Project for Road
Rehabilitation
Other development agencies
Pilot Phase of Human
Resources Development
financed by UNDP
Inter-Institutional
Cooperation Programs
supported by several
bilateral donors
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
Lessons learnt from the Experience of the Pilot HRD
A pilot phase of the project is being implemented with financing from UNDP. So far it has involved the
recruitment of about 100 professionals (of the total of 600 foreign experts estimated as necessary by the
CSR exercise - see section 7), as professors for the UA; and teachers for the teachers training institutes,
senior secondary schools, and technical and vocational schools. The experience gained during the pilot
phase provides some good lessons which have been built in the design of this project: (i) the system used to
recruit the international experts, by using the service of a consulting firm (Global Placement) in India has
proved efficient and cost-effective. The cost equals US$ 400 per expert recruited, and is paid only when
the expert starts his or her service in Eritrea. At the beginning of the pilot phase the consulting firm was
also responsible for pre-screening the candidates, but the results have not been positive. It was therefore
decided to have the pre-screening done internally (in this specific case in the UA), and the quality of the
candidates short-listed improved. This practice will be kept in the next phase; (ii) the experts need to be
fully integrated in the Eritrean system: they are not advisors, but producers, and are subject to the same
standards and treatment as their Eritrean colleagues; (iii) the package of salary and benefits offered allowed
Eritrea to attract well qualified experts.
The University through the Inter-Institutional Cooperation Programs has been able to send about 100
students to complete post-graduate education in universities abroad. Ten of them have completed their
studies and all but one returned to Eritrea and are currently working for the Government. It is expected
9



that this high rate of repatriation will be maintained. There are three other key elements guiding the
Government strategy for training abroad: (i) training needs to be relevant to problems and needs identified
at the national level; (ii) part of the training consists of field work which is actually done in Eritrea, to keep
close contact between the person being trained and the institution which will eventually absorb him or her;
and (iii) the mechanism to select those who are sent abroad is fully transparent and based on merit,
academic qualifications, and working experience.
Lessons Learnt in Other Countries
The HRD project has special features which makes it unique in the framework of what are broadly defined
as Technical Cooperation projects. These features, namely the very strong govermment commitment and
ownership, the sound and favorable surrounding environment, and the cost-effective strategy adopted lead
in the direction suggested by the OECD/DAC's Principles for New Orientation in Technical Cooperation
issued in 1991, and endorsed by the World Bank. The guiding principles are the following: (i) emphasize
long-tenn capacity and institution building as strategic objectives; (ii) emphasize the central role of
recipient countries in planning, designing and managing technical cooperation; encourage ownership; (iii)
use a program rather than a project approach; (iv) encourage greater use of local expertise and structures;
(v) define goals in terms of outcomes, not inputs; and, (vi) pay greater attention to costs and cost-
effectiveness. (For more detailed information see Lessons and Practces - Operations Evaluation
Department - Technical Cooperation: May 1996).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
There are several indications of the GOE commitment and ownership. First of all, the Government
highlighted in its request the urgency and the priority of this project, stressing that its quick implementation
is indispensable to achieve the most important national development objectives. Second, the Government
has not waited for IDA or any other international institution to identify the best strategy to solve the
problem, but after having identified it, has developed a strategy, and from this a project proposal, which
has been submitted to IDA for financing. A group of high level officials has worked at the preparation of
the proposed project for more than two years, in constant consultation with several other national players.
While waiting for the final proposal to be ready, the Government has started the implementation of a
selected set of activities on a pilot basis, and has used the lessons learnt during the pilot to finalize the
design of the project. Finally, the decision to borrow to finance technical assistance which is an area
traditionally financed with grant resources, is an additional indication of commitment.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
There are two main advantages in IDA support. First, IDA is probably the only funding agency who can
make available the necessary amount of money in a single project in a short time. Second, IDA will bring
its experience in technical assistance and capacity building projects across various regions, and within
Africa in almost every country. Supporting the implementation of the HRD project will be also a very
valuable experience for the Bank. In fact, the unprecedented context in which the HRD project has been
conceived and will be implemented, will allow the Bank to expand its patrimony of leaming experiences on
technical cooperation issues, and will provide material for good practices which could be replicated
elsewhere.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
1 ]Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= N.A. ERR= N.A. [XI Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[I Other (Specify)
(i) The economic evaluation is based on a cost effectiveness analysis for the overall project. It is
10



impossible to do a quantitatively reliable cost-benefit analysis for the overall project. The direct
costs of the project are around US$ 66 million, however, many of the direct and indirect benefits
cannot be measured. The exact impact of the project on the institutional environment and on
Eritrea's capacity to achieve its development objectives cannot be quantified in monetary terms.
(ii) The economic rationale for investing in highly skilled and professional manpower is the extremely
high opportunity cost in terms of growth foregone. Not having the required skills now, not filling
the vacancies with expatriates and not sending the students abroad would retain Eritrea in a bind in
which institutional and administrative deficiencies would seriously hamper its growth prospects.
Capacity building is a critical missing link in Eritrea's social and economic development.
(iii) From the point of view of cost effectiveness the project is clearly designed to minimize costs
without giving up much ground in terms of quality. The Eritreans followed stringent cost and
quality conscious procedures in the identification of their capacity constraints and in the
preparation of the two-pronged strategy to fill the selected vacancies. The expatriates are being
recruited from a surplus market of highly qualified professionals, with relatively low wages,
through an efficient and cost effective recruiting system. The process of sending Eritrean students
abroad is organized on a competitive and cost effective basis.
(iv) Throughout the project, indicators will be used to assess individual, ministerial, project
performance and impact. During project launch a management tool will be developed to link the
monitoring and evaluation process closer with cost effectiveness and/or cost benefit evaluation
techniques.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV= N.A.; FRR= N.A.
The project is not supposed to have implications on the Government's budget in terms of recurrent costs for
salaries. In fact, all the positions which will be filled initially by the external experts and eventually by the
Eritreans trained abroad have been approved in the framework of the civil service reform program, and the
resources necessary to cover the salaries have been already allocated to the budget of the relevant ministries
or institutions. During project implementation they will be used to pay for the accommodation of the
expatriates, and will be a significant share of the Government contribution to the project. Finally, the
simulation model in place in the Ministry of Education allows the Government to monitor that no resources
are diverted from other important programs in the education sector to cover the costs of this project.
Fiscal impact:
The fiscal impact of the project is likely to be neutral in the short term, and positive in the long term. The
salary costs for the expatriates are being financed from the loan and the resources necessary to cover the
salaries of the Eritreans trained abroad have already been allocated to the relevant ministerial and
institutional budgets. The costs for accommodation of the expatriates are being accounted for through the
Government contribution for the project. After the replacement of the expatriates by Eritreans being
trained abroad, Government will be able to use the allocated resources for increased salaries of Eritreans in
those positions. Actual expenditures on salaries for these functions will accordingly reduce by 40% to 60%
and additional tax revenues on the higher earnings of BA, MA, and Ph.D. graduates will have a positive
impact on Government finances. The overall fiscal impact of the project needs to be assessed in terms of
the Government contribution during the project implementation period and the evolution of the wage bill.
3. Technical:
The project is technically sound. It will contribute to solve the problems posed by the acute shortage of
highly skilled and professional manpower in a very cost-effective way. Project components are consistent
with the overall project objectives and were prepared on the basis on international as well as regional norms
and practices, and will be implemented in accordance with acceptable standards. Innovations, including the
11



process used to identify the vacant jobs and skills through a careful job-by-job and person-by-person
analysis, and the extensive use of expatriates being recruited from markets where there are plentiful
qualified professionals with many years of experiences whose wages are lower when compared to the
wages of equivalently trained people in other countries, are based on sound technical, financial and
economic considerations.
Investments and recurrent costs estimated for the project are based on estimates of prevailing market unit
costs, confirmed by the experience of the pilot phase, with appropriate allowance for inflation. A
reasonable level of contingencies has also been included in the cost estimates.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: The PCU will be staffed with high quality, experienced individuals, with
proven management skills, ability to coordinate inputs from different institutions, and a good
understanding of capacity issues and constraints in Eritrea. The committee coordinating the
implementation of the national Human Resources Development Strategy will make sure that
strategic decisions are in line with the global strategy, and monitor the impact of the project
activities on the proposed objectives. A second committee including the PCU manager and
representatives of the Human Resources Department of central ministries will coordinate and
monitor the daily implementation of the project. This team will also be responsible for ensuring the
institutional learning and strategic analysis process.
b. Project management: The PCU will have standard operating, procurement and administrative
guidelines to follow for project management. Possibly before the beginning of project
implementation, and anyway during the first year of activity, training will be provided to PCU staff
in procurement, disbursement, accounting and project management. The project will also
strengthen the capacity of the human resources development units in the civil service and the UA
by providing them with computer equipment and technical support to enable them to handle the
external staff placements, to monitor and evaluate their performance, to manage the inflow of local
staff on return from external training and to evaluate and monitor performance of the project in a
given ministry or in the UA.
5. Social:
Selection criteria of external experts and students sent abroad will promote gender balance. A strong
presence of female professionals in strategic civil service positions would provide an encouraging role
model for future generations.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category [ I A   [I B    [XI C
The project has been rated category C because it consists only of recruitment of foreign experts and
training activities and therefore is not supposed to have any negative impact on the environment.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Academic institutions
Central Government Institutions
b. Other key stakeholders:
Other donors
12



F: Sustainability and Risks
1   Sustainability:
Several factors will ensure the sustainability of the project: (i) the salary scale adopted by the Govenument
is competitive with the private sector; (ii) the strategy adopted for training abroad guarantees that the
students remain connected with the country, and the specific reality of the institution where they will be
placed at the end of their training; (iii) the selection of the candidates to be sent abroad is based on
academic qualifications and working experience, and the procedure is extremely transparent; (iv)
strengthening the PCU and the human resources development units of central ministries will allow the
development of capacity to monitor the evolution of the labor market and to respond to the demand with
adequate strategies. 
13



2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in thefourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                  Risk                 Risk Minimization Measure
Project outputs to objectives              X
(i) International experts do not   N        (i) rigorous and transparent selection criteria;
generate the expected outputs            (ii) constant monitoring mechanisms;
(iii) attractive salary scale.
(ii) Students sent abroad do not   N/M      (i) rigorous and transparent selection criteria;
return or perform                       (ii) formal monitoring and evaluation system;
(iii) training abroad made relevant to Eritrea needs and
reality;
(iv) an appropriate job on return.
(iii) UA fails to produce       N/M         (i) rigorous selection criteria of the professors placed in
increment in number of                      UA;
graduates or in research                (ii) attractive incentive system for career development.
outputs
Project components to outputs                             X
(i) Selection process is not    N/M         (i) process already tested in the pilot phase;
successful or timely                    (ii) good pool of applicants in the targeted countries;
(iii) high salary scale will attract good quality
candidates.
(ii) Students sent abroad are not   N       (i) selection process is transparent and based on merit.
l   of good quality                        __|
(iii) PCU and human resources    N/M        (i)  PCU staff are selected among highly qualified
development departments do                  professionals;
not succeed to manage the               (ii) flexible design will allow adjustment to more
whole process                               feasible objectives should this be necessary;
(iii) resources for consultancy services will be available
to PCU and training will be offered to strengthen
their managerial capacity.
Overall project risk rating
The project will fail to achieve its N/M    Risks are further mitigated by: (i) the high level and
development objective                       quality of project preparation carried out by the
Government team; (ii) the high level of commitment
shown by the Government; (iii) the agreement reached
about flexible design, working on the basis of annual
work-programs, and building in the project a strong
monitoring and evaluation mechanism; and, (iv) special
supervision efforts planned particularly during the early
stages of project implementation.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
N.A (Potential controversial issues have been dealt with during project preparation.)
14



G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
As conditions of Credit Effectiveness, the Government would:
(i) made operational a project accounting system acceptable to the GOE and IDA.
2. Other;
Conditions for Negotiations (both conditions met)
(i) the Government has appointed the Manager of the PCU;
(ii) the Government has prepared an Annual Work Program and Budget for the first year
Agreement has been reached during Negotiations on the following:
(i) the project will be implemented in accordance with the Project Implementation Plan; any proposed
change to the Project Irnplementation Plan will be subject to agreement by IDA;
(ii) the Government of Eritrea and IDA will conduct a mid-term review of project implementation and
impact 30 months after credit effectiveness;
(iii) PCU manager and staff will at all times have qualifications commensurate to their duties;
(iv) during the annual meeting of the Project Review Committee the Government and IDA will jointly
assess the progress made during the previous year, and the work planned for the coming year.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ ] Not applicable.
[X] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[X] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[X] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   [The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval:  . The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.]
Task Teail ader: Laura Fngenti
Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
$~~~~1&c t@ Ak,
CountryDirector: Oey Astra Meesook
15



K



Annex 1
Page I of 4
Project Design Summary
Eritrea: Human Resources Development Project
Narrative Summary     Key Performance Indicators  Monitoring and Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Vision:
Achieve human
development
Project Development                                                        (Purpose to Goal)
Objective (Purpose):
Government histitutions    1. x% increase in total  1.1 Statistics MOE     1. Overall HRD program
capacity sustainably   enrollment at all levels of                         develops successfully;
improved.               education by EOP;                                  2. Complementary
2. x% increase in new     2.1 Statistics MOE       programs in health and
teachers trained;                                  education develop
3. x% increase in the number  3.1 Statistics UA    successfully;
of student educated in                             3. Macroeconomic
Asmara at University level;                       stability.
4. National/Sectoral policy    4.1 Individual monitoring
development programs      indicators per each line
improved and operational;    ministry will be identified
during launch workshop.
5. Training programs better   5.1 Training design
reflect previously identified   documents
needs;
6. x% increase in ratio of  6.1 Documents on research
local experts/foreign     carried out
consultants in charge of
research;
7. Regulatory franework for  7.1 Individual monitoring
each sector improved.     indicators per each line
ministry will be identified
during launch workshop.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 4
Outputs:                                                                  (Output to Purpose)
1. Policy, Regulatory and   1.1 230 foreign experts in  Quarterly reports, Annual  1. Eritreans trained
R&D units strengthened    place by year 3;        reports, and annual      abroad return to duty;
1.2 TOR for each unit     meetings of Project Review  2. M&E system is
upgraded by year 3;       Committee (for all outputs) applicable to all staff;
1.3 90% of trained Eritreans                      3. Adjustment and
have replaced foreign experts                     integration period for
by EOP.                                            foreign experts is short
(less than six months);
2. Teacher Training     2.1 160 foreign teachers in                        4. Needs and training
institutes, senior     place by year 3;                                    skills match.
secondary schools and   2.2 90% Eritreans have
technical vocational   replaced foreign experts by
institutes staffed      EOP.
3. New faculties        3.1 110 foreign experts in
established and         place by year 3;
operational             3.2 70% of Eritreans trained
abroad have replaced foreign
experts by EOP;
3.3 new disciplines in Health
Sciences (Pharnacy,
Medicine, Dentistry);
Engineering (Electrical,
Civil, Mechanical, Chemical,
Architecture); Education
(Secondary level teachers,
Supervisors, School
administrators) available to
students by EOP.
4. HRD units strengthened  4.1 At least 60 staff
in 17 institutions      members trained in HR
management by year 2;
4.2 A data base established
at UAAHRD units level by
year 2;
4.3 A M&E system
established at PCU/HRD
units level by year 1.
5. PCU established and    5.1 PCU with core staff
operational             established by effectiveness;
5.2 Timely submission of
Annual Work Program and
Budget;
5.3 Timely production of
quarterly and annual reports.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
Activities:                                                                  (Activity to Output)
1.1 Recruit 230 foreign    US$30 million           Quarterly reports; Annual   1. World Bank procedures
experts;                                           reports; annual meetings of  do not create bottlenecks
1.2 Send 230 Eritreans to                          the Project Review       in project implementation;
complete grades abroad;                            Committee; disbursement   2. Timely availability of
1.3 Transfer capacity to                           data; supervision reports   human resources;
trained Eritreans;                                 and forms 590 (for all    3. Incentive system for
1.4 Replace foreign                                activities)              foreign experts remain
experts with trained                                                         competitive.
Eritreans.
2.1 Recruit 160 foreign    US$21 million
experts;
2.2 Send 160 Eritreans to
complete grades abroad;
2.3 Transfer capacity to
trained Eritreans;
2.4 Replace foreign
experts with trained
Eritreans.
3.1 Recruit 110 foreign    US$14.3 million
experts;
3.2 Send 110 Eritreans to
study abroad;
3.3 Replace foreign
experts with trained
Eritreans;
3.4 Develop research
programs;
3.5 Develop new
curricula;
3.6 Define and implement
administrative procedures;
3.7 Develop and produce
new teaching materials.
4.1 Design HR           US$0.3 million
management training
program;
4.2 Train staff;
4.3 Purchase computers
and office equipment;
4.4 Train staff in M&E
systems;
4.5 Define specific targets
and indicators per sector;
4.6 Carry out M&E of
HRD project.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
Activities:
5.1 Select and recruit  US$0.4 million
staff;
5.2 Purchase computers
and office equipment;
5.3 Define and implement
AWPB;
5.4 Prepare quarterly and
annual reports;
5.5 Train PCU in
implementation
procedures;
5.6 Train PCU in HR
management;
5.7 Design and Operate
M&E systems;
5.8 Train PCU in M&E
systems.



Annex 2
Page 1 of 5
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Project Description
Overal Implementation Strategy
The project implementation strategy is based on a cycle of: (i) needs assessment; (ii) training and
recruitment; and (iii) monitoring and evaluation.
(i) Needs Assessment. The human resources development units of the line ministries will play a key
role in the exercise of assessing specific human resources needs for their ministries. Survey
methods using specifically designed questionnaires to collect data and computer assisted data
analysis programs will be introduced. The strategic objectives of each line ministry and the
activities, as well as the specific tasks that must be perforned to meet the strategic objectives
and the expected institutional performance output will be specified and documented. Critena for
the identification of the human resources gaps and to determine which gap can best be filled
through specific training and/or recruitment of an expert will be developed. Data collection will
also include pre-training and pre-recruitment baseline data, documenting the individual as well as
institutional performance outputs and performance gaps, so that comparisons will be made
possible with post-training and post-recruitment data collection giving way for systematic
taining impact analysis. The data collected from each line ministry will be pooled in the PCU's
data-base and the data analysis on the combined data will be used to identify the total needs.
Further analysis wi1l sort the needs (gaps) into some order of priorities.
(ii) Training and Recruitment. The training and the recruitment specialists will develop criteria to
determine which gaps can be best filled through specific training and/or through the recruitment
of foreign experts on the basis of the outcome of the data analysis carried out by the needs
assessment exercise. With respect to the training component, criteria will be developed to
determine the location, type of training, possible training institutions, objectives of the training
program and sequencing of training designed to remedy the individual, as well as the institutional
perfornance gaps. Furthermore, transparent criteria for selecting candidates for external
training based on academic performance and relevant work experience will also be developed. A
student selection committee will be appointed to make the final recommendation on candidates
for training. With respect to the recruitment component, similarly criteria to match the specific
gaps with the required specific skill will be worked out. A procedure will be developed to
prepare specific and clear terms of reference for each identified position that needs to be filled by
an expert, spelling out the specific task to be carried out, the required level of skill (level of
education + duration of relevant work experience), and the expected results (performance
output). After the process of selection is completed, the process of placement of students to
appropriate institutions will be carried out by the training specialist. The process of recruitment
will be done through the services of a recruitment service provider agency which will take care of
the advertisement of the posts, of assembling the complete CVs of the candidates who fulfill the
requirements and transmitting them to the recruitment specialist. Review panels with appropriate
expertise will be appointed to screen and shortlist the applicants on the basis of the documented
qualifications. Finally two specialists from the review panel accompanied by either the
recruitment specialist or the PCU manager will constitute an interview panel who will make the
final recommendation for recruitment after conducting an interview with the short-listed
candidates.
(iii) Monitoring and Evaluation. A detailed description of the monitoring and evaluation systems
which will be used during the implementation of the Human Resources Development Project is
provided in Section C - 4 - (vi).



Annex 2
Page 2 of 5
Project Components
The project has three main components: (i) external recruitment of international experts; (ii) external
training of 500 Eritreans; and, (iii) institutional strengthening of the UA and the governmental ministries to
implement the program, as well as to monitor and evaluate its progress and achievements.
Project Component 1 - US$ 50.55 million (total cost of component)
Recruitment of Foreign Experts
This component will foresee the extemal recruitment of international experts to fill 500 key positions in the
UA, the Civil Service and the senior teaching institutions. The recruited foreign nationals will come from a
selected number of high quality universities, from the state and national civil services, and from the private
sector. It is expected that these technical experts will fill 160 positions within the Ministry of Education,
serving as senior teachers in existing secondary schools, the two vocational technical schools and the
primary teachers training college. Other experts will fill 110 positions at the UA and the Pre-University at
Mendefera to work with existing and newly established faculties. Finally, additional experts will be
recruited to work in the civil service, filling 230 key jobs in the 16 ministries where advanced training and
experience in technical areas is required.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 5
SUMMARY OF CIVIL SERVICE VACANCIES BY QUALIFICATION (1997)
Field               Ph.D.
MD.         M.Sc/MA        B.Sc./BA       Diploma        Diploma      Certificate
DVM           LLM            LL.B.          12+3           12+2          12+1            12            Total
Agricultural          8             36            21                            11                                          76
Sciences                    .
Business &           15             57            226             4            236                           351            889
Economics
Engineering          11             65             72            32             17            20                            217
Health Sciences      15             18             6             11              7                                          57
Natural              40             129            39                            9                           46             263
Sciences
Social Sciences      36             71             58                           16             6                            187
Total                125           376            422            47            296            26             397           1689



Annex 2
Page 4 of 5
SUMMARY OF VACANCIES IN THE CIVIL SERVICE - 1997
Ph.D.
MD.    M.Sc/MA  B.Sc./BA   Diploma   Diploma   Certificate
MINISTRY              DVM        LLM       LL.B.      12+3       12+2       12+1        12       Total
1. Agriculture                      3        25         27                   12                     2        69
2. Auditor General                           19         28                    3                     1        51
3. Education   X___ X_160                               26 _                 11                     8       205
4. Energy and Mines                           6         21          1         1           5        10        44
5. ERREC                    _      _          1          5                    3                     4         13
6. Finance                                    5         49          2       182           2       217       457
7. Fisheries                        1        24          6         r         22           1        25        79
8. Foreign Affairs                            4         10                    3                     5        22
9. Health                           8         10        13         11         3                     9        54
10. Information            _                  2         12                                6         1        21
11. Justice                                   5         38         3          1                    86       133
12. Labor and Human Welfare                              7                                          1         8
13. Land, Water.and                4         47         21         5         11           3        7         98
Environment
14. Local Government                                    36                    9           1        2         48
15. Public Works                             40         43         7         10                    2        102
16. Tourism                                             23  _-                2                              25
17. Trade and Industry                        1         25          1         2                    6         35
18. Transport and                            26         32        17         21           8        11       115
Communication
19. University of Asmara          80                                                                         80
20. Pre-University of              29         1                                                              30
Mendefera
Total                  125       376        422         47       296           26      397       1689



Annex 2
Page 5 of 5
Project Component 2 - US$ 14.83 million (total cost of component)
Foreign Training for Eritrean Nationals.
This component will foresee the external training of about 500 Eritrean nationals of which 350 will be at
the MA level, 80 at the Ph.D. level, and 70 at the BA level in highly specialized disciplines. The selected
candidates are either in the civil service, the teaching cadre, or the UA, or would be assigned there once
their external training is complete. The trained nationals would replace the foreign experts after a six-
month handover period. It is expected that most of the Eritreans would be trained in India, Pakistan,
Bangladesh or Sri Lanka at high quality institutions. During the handover period the external expert will
act as an advisor, and at the end, the internal staff member will assume responsibility for the specified job.
Summary of Training Activities Abroad
Number of Students          Technical Field      Level of Education Abroad
Required
Agriculturl Sciences                   8                        Ph.D.
Agricultural Sciences                  36                       MSc
Engineering Sciences                   I I                      Ph.D.
Engineering Sciences                   65                       MSc
Engineering Sciences                   72                       B.Sc.
Health Sciences                        15                     Ph.D./MD
Health Sciences                        18                       M.Sc
Health Sciences                        3                        B.Sc.
Natural Sciences                       40                       Ph.D.
Natural Sciences                       129                      M.Sc
Natural Sciences                       5                        B.Sc.
Social Sciences                        36                      Ph.D.
Social Sciences                        71                       MA
Business and Economics                 15                       Ph.D.
Business and Economics                 57                       MA
Business and Economics                 4                         BA
Total                      585
Project Component 3 - USS 0.65 million (total cost of component)
nstitutional Strengthening and Project Administration.
The project will support the strengthening of the human resources development functions in the civil service
and the UA. The project will provide computer equipment and technical support to the research and human
resource development department in each ministry to enable it to handle the external staff placements, to
monitor and evaluate their perfonnance, to manage the inflow of local staff on return from external
training, and to evaluate and monitor performance of the Human Resources Development program in a
given ministry or in the UA. In addition the project will support a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be
located in the UA which will have overall responsibility for project implementation and for monitoring and
evaluation of project progress and impact.



I



Annex 3a
Eritrea - Human Resources Development
Estimated Project Costs
%O        % Total
Foreign        Base
Project Component               Local     Foreign      Total     Exchange        Costs
1. Foreign Experts                12.50       33.46       45.96          73              77
2. Overseas Training                  0        13.48      13.48          100             22
3. Project Coordination Unit        0.01        0.58       0.59           98              1
TOTAL BASELINE                     12.51       47.52      60.03           79            100
Price Contingencies                 1.25        5.48       6.73           81             10
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                13.76       53.00      66.76           79            100



Annex 3b
Eritrea - Human Resources Development
Detailed Project Costs by omponent
Project Component                                                      Local           Foreign          Total
IDA 7
US $ thousand _      _
Foreign Experts
Experts' Consultancy Fees [500 x 12 k/yr x 5 yrs]                         -            30,000           30,000
Experts' Housing [$5 k/yr x 500 x 5 yrsl                             12,500                             12,500
Experts' Transport [500 x $3 k x 2 cyclesl                                -            3,000             3,000
Recnuitment Fees 1500 x $400 x 2 cycles]                                                 400               400
Travel for Recruitinent [5 x 4 trips x S 3 kl                                             60                60
Subtotal 1                                                        12,500            33,460            45,960
Price Contingencies 10%                                               1,250             3,346            4,596
Subtotad 2                                                        13,750            36,806            50,556
Overseas Training
BAs
Tuition [70 x 4yrs x S 2k/yr]                                          -              560               560
Living Allowance [70 x 4yrs x S 5.4 klyr]                              -             1,512             1,512
Travel [70 x S lk/trip x I tripl-                                                      70                70
MAs
Tuition [350 x 2 yrs x S 2 ktyr]                                       -             1,400             1,400
Living Allowance [350 x 2 yrs x S5.4 k/yr]-                                          3,780             3,780
Travel 1350 x S 1 kltrip x 2 tripsl                                    -              700               700
Ph.D.'s
Tuition [80 x S 2 k/yr x 4 yrs]                                        -             1,200             1,200
Living Allowance [80 x $ 5.4 k/yr x 4 yrs]                             -             3,240             3,240
Travel F80 x  lkltrip x 3 tripsl                                       -              240               240
Ph.D. Thesis Support
Computers [80 x S 2.5 k]                                                              200               200
Other supplies [80 x $ k         _                                                     80      _         80
Student Management Fees [500 x $ 500/studenti                             -              250               250
Training HRD Units                                                        -              250               250
Suotad I                                                               -            13,482            13,482
Price Contingencies                                                       -             1,348            1,348
Subtotal 2                                                             -            14,830            14,830
Project Coordinating Unit
6 professional staff [6 x 400/mo. x 12 x 51                               -              144               144
2 secretarial staff [2 x 200/mo. x 12 x 51                                -               24                24
Computers [(8 pcu plus 17 min) x $ 2.5 kl                                 -               63                63
Software, cables, other supplies                                                          25                25
Office furmiture                                                                          25                25
Communication                                                                             50                50
Consultancy Fund                                                          -              200               200
Internal Travel (government to fill in)                                 10                 -                10
Extenal Travel [3 x S 3 k/trip x 51                                       -               45                45
Subtotl)                                                              10              576               586
Plus UA to contribute office space for the PCU                                    _
Price Contingencies                                                      0                58                58
Subtotal 2                                                             0              634               644
Total Baseline Cost                                                  12,510           47,518            60,028
Price Contingencies                                                1,251             5,482            6,733
Total Project Cost                                                   13,761           53,000            66,761



Annex 4
Page I of 2
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Economic Analysis
The economic evaluation is based on a cost effectiveness analysis for the overall project. It is impossible to
do a quantitatively reliable cost-benefit analysis for the overall project. The direct costs of the project are
around US$ 66 million, however, many of the direct and indirect benefits cannot be quantified in monetary
terms. Among the most tangible benefits of implementing this part of the national human development
strategy will be: (i) increased efficiency and effectiveness in the functioning of the civil service, the UA and
the Teacher Training Institutes (using expatriates and Eritreans sent abroad for training); (ii) filling the
acute shortage of highly skilled and professional manpower which has become one of the main bottlenecks
to the implementation of the short and medium term national development program and to the growth of the
economy; (iii) to allow 500 Eritreans to obtain higher degrees (BA, MA and Ph.D.) which will permit them
to take over from the expatriates over a period of 5 years; (iv) enhanced capacity of the country to produce
domestically the skilled manpower required by a dynamic and growing economy (strengthen the UA and the
Teacher Training Colleges to train at least an additional 1000 students and teachers per year at various
levels).
Capacity building is a critical missing link in Eritrea's development. The economic rationale for investing
in highly skilled and professional manpower is the extremely high opportunity cost in terms of growth
foregone. Not having the required skills now, not filling the vacancies with expatriates and not sending the
students abroad would retain Eritrea in a bind in which institutional and administrative deficiencies would
seriously hamper its growth prospects. Without this human capital investment the Government will not be
able to successfully implement its Recovery and Rehabilitation Program aimed at jump-starting the
economy. It is beyond question that the lack of adequate institutional and administrative capacity forms a
detrimental impediment to the planned swift transition to a market economy, the introduction of a liberal
trade policy and the central role for the private sector as the engine of growth. Without removing this
impediment and without the envisaged improvements in the efficiency and effectiveness of its institutional
environment, Eritrea's public administration would not be able to carry out its major policies, and
regulatory and economic management functions (legal and judicial framework, resource mobilization, tax
and customs administration, budgeting, financial management etc.). Without improving the institutional
environment that facilitates the achievement of its development goals Eritrea would minimize its prospects
for social and economic development.
From the point of view of cost effectiveness the project is clearly designed to minimize costs without giving
up much ground in terms of quality. The Eritreans followed stringent cost and quality conscious
procedures in the identification of their capacity constraints and in the preparation of the two-pronged
strategy to fill the selected vacancies. The civil service restructuring process has been very rigorous and
thorough. The functional review of the civil service and the matching skill requirements exercise identified
serious capacity deficiencies in 1,600 critical positions. The jobs to be addressed through the project have
been identified through a careful job-by-job and person-by-person analysis of the capacities needed to run
the 16 central Ministries, the UA and the Teacher Training Colleges in a cost effective manner. From the
inception of the reforms, the Eritreans owned the process, they recognized the need for capacity building
themselves, accepted responsibility for leading efforts to achieve it and managed the process consistent with
their own development plans. Political will and commnitment from the Eritrean Government have driven the
capacity building process, not outsiders, the importance of which cannot be overemphasized. A full-
fledged exposition of the cost effectiveness of the project might not be necessary to obtain recipient
support.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 2
The two-pronged strategy to fill the selected vacancies has been designed to lower the costs of the project.
The expatriates are being recruited from a surplus market (South Asia) where there are plentiful Ph.D.'s
and MA's with many years of experience. This keeps their wages low relative to the wages of equivalently
trained people in other countries. In the current technical assistance practice in Sub Saharan Africa, the
salary/benefit packages offered to foreign experts are often in the range of US$ 7,000 to US$ 10,000 per
month (as against US$ 1,000 to US$ 1,200 offered in this project). The purchasing power of
commensurate salaries offered in Eritrea is in addition much better than in countries like India where the
cost of living is much higher. The expatriates will live in Eritrea in relatively modest accommodations
provided by the Govermnent. The pilot activity revealed that the attlractive salary/benefits package offered
to the expatriates enables the recruitment of highly qualified professionals for relatively low costs.
Professionals who have been fully integrated in the Eritrean institutional capacity, not merely as advisors,
but in line jobs, effectively transferring knowledge and experience into practice. The system used to recruit
the international experts, by using the service of a consulting firm in India has proved efficient and cost
effective. The cost of US$ 400 per person accepted must be one of the lowest finders' fees for international
recruitment anywhere in the world.
The brain drain of Eritreans that decide not to return after their studies, may be lower among students
going to South Asia to study as compared to those going to North America, Europe or Australia. The
Eritrean students going abroad will be trained at universities and institutes in South Asia at a cost that is
about one quarter of the top universities in the USA. Even with a generous allowance for differences in
quality, the value-for-money should be easily in favor of the carefully selected institutions of learning in
South Asia. The institutions will be selected on a competitive and cost effective basis. The programs
offered will be directly relevant to the skill needs and vacancies identified. Course and field work (thesis)
of the students is expected to be applicable in future functions and responsibilities. Student home leave is
anticipated to be spend on the job. The selection of students is based on stringent criteria and
qualifications, and their performance will be measured against specific terms of reference. Both expatriates
and students abroad will be carefully monitored with tightly drawn TORs upfront and annual evaluations
thereafter (or end-of-semester reports in the case of students). Throughout the project, indicators will be
used to assess individual, ministerial, and project performance and impact. In cost effectiveness analysis
the benefits are often measured in non-monetary units (such as test scores, enrollments or graduates
produced) and outcomes are related to costs. During the project launch a management tool will be
developed to link the monitoring and evaluation process closer with cost effectiveness and/or cost benefit
evaluation techniques.



Annex 5
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending 2004
(in USS)
hmplementation Period                    Operational Period
1998   1999   2000    2001    2002   2003   2004   2005   2006   2007
Project Costs
Investment Costs-IDA       3.32    9.35    9.27     9.26    9.26    9.10    3.44  0     0       0
Investment Costs-GOE        .68    2.48    2.48     2.48    2.48    2.48    .68  0      0       0
Recurrent Costs               0       0       0        0      0       0       0  2.0    2.0    2.0
Total                   4.00   11.83   11.75    11.74   11.74   11.58    4.12  2.0    2.0    2.0
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IDA                        83%    79%    79%        79%    79%    79%    83%
Government                 17%    21%    21%        21%    21%    21%    17%  100%   100%   100%
Total                  100%   100%   100%       100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%   100%






Annex 6
Page 1 of 5
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
The procurement methods applicable to the various expenditure categories are summarized in Table A. A
Procurement Plan for the first year has been finalized and agreed upon during Appraisal.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ Million)
Total Cost
Consultant                                 (including
Expenditure Category     Services       NCB           Other      contingencies)
A. Experts, Technical
Assistance and Studies*  51.30                                      51.30
(38.40)                                    (38.40)
B. External Training                                     14.00          14.00
(14.00)        (14.00)
C. Equipment                               0.35          0.08           0.43
(0.35)        (0.08)         (0.43)
D. Operating Costs                                       0.30           0.30
(0.20)         (.20)
TOTAL                        51.30         0.35          14.38          66.03
(38.40)       (0.35)       (14.28)        (53.03)
Note: * The balance will be financed by the Government of Eritrea.
Totals may not add up due to rounding.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
Other includes shopping, and direct contracting or purchasing of goods.
Procurement Procedures.
The project will operate in accordance with detailed procurement procedures specified in the Project
Implementation Plan, following Bank/IDA procurement Guidelines. Any change to the Project
Implementation Plan will be made in agreement with IDA.
Goods. Contracts for goods such as office equipment and furniture for PCU office would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (published in
January 1995 and revised in August 1996). Contracts for goods available locally for an aggregate amount
of US$ 350,000 with individual value of each contract above US$ 30,000 but not to exceed US$ 200,000
will be procured through NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. Small quantities of office supplies and
consumable materials which are normally available off the shelf at economical price and cannot be grouped
in packages of US$ 30,000 would be procured through National Shopping based on price quotations
obtained from 3 reliable suppliers provided that the aggregate amount does not exceed US$ 100,000.
Or computers for Ph.D. students



Annex 6
Page 2 of 5
Consultant Services. Consultants would be recruited in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the
Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997). Consultant service will include: (i) individual
experts who will be hired to fill vacancies within the civil services or in senior teaching institutions; (ii)
contracts with firms in charge of recruiting the international experts; and, (iii) small contracts with firms
for services such as financial audit, establishing a computerized accounting system in the PCU, monitoring
and evaluating the impact of project activities and training staff in the PCU and HRD units.
A General Procurement Notice will be published every year including the number of professionals required
per each professional category, level of qualification required, length of the assignment, and salary range.
Individual experts will be selected on the basis of their qualification for the assignment. They may be
selected on the basis of references or through comparison of qualifications among those expressing interest
in the assigment or approached directly by the Borrower. Individuals employed shall meet all relevant
qualifications and shall be fully capable of carrying out the assigmnent. Capability is judged on the basis
of academic background and experience. Initial contracts will be for a period of two years, and they may
be extended on the basis of needs and performance.
The second category will cover the contract with the consulting firm in charge of recruiting the
international experts. It was agreed to keep the on-going arrangement with the international firm which
was selected on a single-source basis during the pilot phase because its performance has been assessed
satisfactory and cost-effective.
For the third category, the least cost solution will be used.
External Training. During the annual meeting of the Project Review Committee and as part of the Annual
Work Program and Budget, the Government and the Bank will approve a list of the candidates selected for
extemal training. The following information will be included for each candidate: (i) name of the candidate
and present qualification; (ii) nature and period of the training; (iii) institution selected to provide the
training; (iv) cost of the training; (v) vacancy that the candidate will fill after the training.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
IDA financed contracts for goods above the thresholds of US$ 200,000 will be subject to IDA prior review.
All other contracts will be subject to post review during the supervision missions. A technical review of all
procurement will be conducted 12 months after effectiveness to evaluate the economy and efficiency of
procurement arrangements and the suitability of the procurement arrangements will be reviewed.
Prior IDA review for consultants will be required for: (a) all contracts for individuals costing more that
US$ 60,000 per contract; (ii) all contracts with firms or institutions costing more than US$ 100,000 per
contract; and (iii) all single source consultancy or training contracts, regardless of their value.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 5
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure Category       Contract Value      Procurement    Contracts Subject to
(Threshold)         Method          Prior Review
1. Experts, Technical     > $60,000 individual     QCBS        > $60,000 individual
Assistance and Studies    >$100,000 firm                       >$100,000 firm
<$100,000            LCS
Sole Source
[Recruitment
Agent]
2. Equipment                   >$100,000            NCB             >$200,000
<$200,000
<$30,000             NS
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
The project is estimated to be disbursed over a period of five years. A table showing the allocation of the
IDA credit is provided below. Estimates are based on credit effectiveness by February 1998.
Operating costs include incremental operating costs incurred on account of project implementation,
management and supervision, including office furniture and supplies, communication costs, office
equipment and machinery, office rent, operation of vehicles, consultancy fees, travel and allowances for
PCU staff, but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower's civil service and operation of vehicles.
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
The PCU will be responsible for preparing disbursement applications for submission to IDA. Applications
for (a) direct payments, and (b) issuance of special commitments in guarantee of letters of credit payments
in excess of the equivalent of 20% if the authorized allocation deposited into the Special Account will be
submitted directly to IDA. Expenditures for contracts for individual consultant services not exceeding US$
60,000, for contracts for consulting firms not exceedling US$ 100,000, and for all other contracts not
exceeding US$ 200,000 wili be claimed on the basis of statements of expenditures. All other expenditures
in excess of these amounts will be fully documented when submitted to IDA for disbursement.
Replenishment application for the Special Account will be submitted at monthly intervals, irrespective of
the volume of tramnsactions during each month, together with the required documentation. All
documentation supporting SOEs will be available at the PCU to facilitate inspection by Bank supervision
mission and auditors.



Annex 6
Page 4 of 5
Special Account:
A Special Account will be opened in a freely convertible currency with a commercial bank acceptable to
IDA including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. The authorized allocation to
the Special Account will be set at a level sufficient to cover about four months of estimated expenditures
eligible for financing by IDA, equal to US$ 5 million. However, until cumulative disbursement reach US$
5 million equivalent, the initial deposit to the Special Account will be limited to 50% of the authorized
allocation.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 5
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$ million    Financing Percentage
1. Technical Assistance, Studies and       34.00                   100%
International Experts
2. Extemal Training                        13.00                    100%
3. Equipment                                0.45            100% foreign, 90% local
4. Incremental Operating Costs              0.30                    90%
5. Unallocated                             5.25
TOTAL                                      53.00
Retroactive Financing:
It was agreed that up to US$ 5.3 million (10% of the proposed credit) will be allowed in retroactive
financing for expenditures to be made after October 15, 1997 for establishing the PCU, strengthening the
capacity of the HRD units and starting the recruitment process of international experts.



I



Annex 7
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$ 000)                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
100,000
B. Project Schedule                              Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             06/30/1997            06/30/97
Appraisal mission departure                     09/30/1997            09/30/97
Negotiations                                    10/15/1997             10/13/97
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   02/01/1998              / /19
Prepared by: University of Asmara
Preparation assistance: none
Bank staff who worked on the project included: Core team members: Laura Frigenti, Social
Scientist (TTL), Wim Alberts, Economist (AFTH4), William Saint, Senior Education Specialist
(AFTI2), Hope Phillips, Operation Analyst (AFTH1), Therese Cruz, Senior Staff Assistant
(AFTIl). Extended team: Ken Sigrist, Senior Economist (AFTII), Sunil Bhattacharya, Senior
Procurement Specialist (AFTSA), Paul Vandenheede, Senior Disbursement Officer (LOAAF),
Kishor Uprety and Aberra Zerabruk, Lawyers (LEGAF). The Sector Manager is Roger Sullivan
(AFTII), and the Country Director is Oey Astra Meesook (AFC06). Peer reviewers are Peter
Miovic, Lead Economist (EDINP), Dunstan Wai, Technical Manager (AFTI2), Robert Prouty,
Senior Education Specialist (AFTH2).






Annex 8
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Documents in the Project File*
A.    Project Implementation Plan
Original GOE proposal for Capacity Building Project
Project Implementation Plan
List of Vacancies in each Central Ministry
B.    Bank Staff Assessments
Detailed project costs
Economic Analysis
C.    Other
Eritrea Education System Computer Simulation Model
*Including electronic files.



I



Annex 9
Eritrea - Human Resources Development Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
(As of July 31, 1997)
-(US$ Million)----
Amount (Less Cancellations)
Loan or      Fiscal                                                                                           Closing
Credit No.    Year      Borrower   Purpose                      Bank         IDA         Undisbursed            Date
Cr. 24780       1993    Eritrea      Economic Recovery Rec.                       25.0           0.4     21-Mar-1997
Cr. 28230       1996    Eritrea      Community Development                        17.5          12.5     31-Dec-2001
Fund
Cr. 29450       1997    Eritrea      Road Engineering Credit                       6.3           6.0     3 1-Dec-2000
Total                                        48.8          18.9
of which repaid
Total held by Bank and                       46.6
IDA
Amount sold
of which repaid
Total Undisbursed                                          18.9






Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
Eritrea at a glance                                                                                                  8Q8l97
. .   .    .   ;;. . . .. . . . . . . . .. . .. . .. . .. . .. . .  .. . t t-. . . . . .. .. . .. . .. . . . . . GP/. Go.
; _        2        f        ;a^'   >!! >< ^E'Ir .g Mde                   .v I1      Deelp  e nt I d/lerolmen
Average annual growth~. 9..W                                .......  .
................ -                                                                                                                                 G.
1*.erT,.'  '9%                                                      '"---,-'.',''                                                                                     '"". per""''" pr-"""."'ma""'y 
- : .......................~~~~~~~~. . . . . . . .                         '.    , ' . . w '   " ' '     '"''''S'' '.. . . . . . . . . . ._
~~~~~~                                                                                        ca~~~~~~~~~OOW Dvlp mea nenrolmment
f~~~~~~~~~~~~~3                                                                      2g  .
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                           -.-.  i-.. --. -.-...            .............. ..  . --- .-
. . . . . . . . . . . .   . .   .. . .. . . . . . . .                       . ..     . . . . . .. . . .  .. . .. .  a. . . . . . . .  ..   ........................
ft~~~f~~  Ul~~~$~.~~h#t~~~l                        .....Access..                                                      L t o safe wa ter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....    ...  . . ..  ..... . . ..........
ChAdrnao  fli 5on t9 cds~
'T,"""X't:,"-.... ~ ~ .........                                                        X
r,e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .                        ,. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .nes
Mal                                         s4   :7g                                                     ---5 12            -   v-s             e .ro-
: - :::::::::::: :::: ::- ::::::::::: ~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                 - :. . . . . . . . . . .   .. . . . . ... . . . .. ..,. ..----.-.-,::.::-
EX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .... .i ......
STRUCTUE ofU8.CNOU
197S    198S                196          19
t%os dGOP)Gre.opennessof oftput econoinvstmy                                                                                                                           t G
Manufomeadurinmg                                                                           16 2. .                      -...
Setvice ~ ~ ~        ~        ~       ~        ~ ~ ~     4                                        avns ,,  ,,nvestmentq_/ 
~~~tflmat~~~~~~~~~~~~~eyment~~cptaenolmn
Pri tvat ue onsumption,                                                           .      ..          ..   ..ts
General~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ....nen conumpion.....                                     .....DI.GD
Imporis ofgoodseantd  se rvices                                     ...de ..te7..n
17     167S.96   19K96                199S   199760
(aveugeerncar growfh)ir
Agriculture                                                         ..           ..           1.              ..
Industry                                                            ..           ..          2..              .
Manufacturing                                                     ..           ..         16.2.
Services                                                             ..          ..          64..3
i'rivate consumption                                             ..               ..            ..           ....
General government consumption                                       ,.           ..               .....I
Gross domestic investment                  ..           ..            ~........ ...
Imports of goods and services                                        ..          ..          77.4         74.4         _________________________............
(averass  nannal groducth.    . .,                                                                             ...
Prvae iconsmpltion
Gross national product                    ..           ..          -4.4~~~~~~~~~..    .. ........  .
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... .
* The diamons show  four  ey indicator  in the counry (in bold)compared wit  its income-roup average  If data aremissing, thediamond .wil
be incomplete.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~...... ....



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
Eritrea
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976    1986      1996    199i    .
Dome.Uc  hruladtion (%J
(% ch,fJge)                                                                     30
Consumer prices                              8.0      ..      11.0      9.0    20
Implicit GDP deflator                         .        ..     11.2      8.5
GovwT         ce                                                                10ffnence
(% of GDP)                                   oI
Current revenue                               ..      ..        ..    10.9             0l   92   93   04   s5   0o
Current budget balance                        ..      ..        ..    -3.5              -GDP dot. _-"+CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      ..       ..        ..    -5.5
TRADE
1975    1966      1995    1996
(mi/lions USS                                                                   Export and import bvels (milE USS)
Total exports (fob)                         163       82         0       15     am
Commodity 1
Commodity 2                                                                    700
Manufactures                                .e
Total imports (cif)                         658      456         0      331     400
Food                                                                           300
Fuel and energy                                                                2        _
Capitalgoods .
Export price index (1987=100)                ..        .2   03  94  ss  9s
Import price index (1987=100)                ..                                             Exports   *Impoit
Terms of trade (1987=100)
BALANCE o PAYMENTS
1976    1986      18s"     199i
(millons US$)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratio (%I
Exports of goods and services                                  171      147
Imports of goods and services                                  448     490       e      oo     2   03  94
Resource balance                             ..       ..    -276    -344
Net income                                                       8        5      5
Net current transfers                        ..       ..       215      254
Current account balance,                                                        40
before ofricial capital transfers           ,.       ..      -53      -85
Financing items (net)                        ..       ..        -5       10
Changes in net reserves                      ..       ..        58       75    -15 .
memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          ..
Conversion rate (localAUS$)                  ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
(mil0ions US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          ..
IBRO
IDA
Total debt service                            ..
IBRD
IDA
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            ..
Official creditors                         ..
Private creditors                          ..
Foreign direct investment                  ..
Portfolio equity                           ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                ..
Disbursements                              ..
Principal repayments                       ..
Net flows                                   ..
Interest payments                          ..
Net transfers                              ..
Development Economics                                                                                           8128197
Note: Estimates for Eritrea are subject to more than the usual range of uncertainty and should be regarded as very prelinunary.



IBRD 24604R
37'                       36A 39'                                                                           A                     42                        4
IA                                7 ~~~~~~~~~~~~SUIARABIA
~~.~K(ooo  'Morv,Teclai  .2                           "                          ~~~~E                           R   I T   R   E   A
S U D A  NJ~<Zro "
((/  >4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                    17' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAJOR ROADS
<~~-~~  ~~        SA AIA L                                                                                                           -                                            SECONDARY ROADS
V.. ~~~~~~ }   <   ~~~~~~~  \I  'K,                                            >"               <.;             '.                    -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~RAILROADS
7   0$SIL      VATFA
I    >0                                                            A                         -I                          -" ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERMITTENT STREAMS
'1)  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  >         "' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0    SELECTED TOWNS
I)                                                                  'A                                                                                                                    NATIONAL CAPITAL
Moe0   -tAlto   Al 6 I                                                                                                                                         INTERNATIONAL BOUJNDARIES
I>  ~ >\                     SEJ'#HIT    -~    7                       p.>.     Doh(oc                                                                     16
BARW!A  'T>          ~~~KERE         4A.50                                                                                                     
'M. t.  5~M M"'ASSAWA                 v
'& Ad AIJ &j It,kh A              4AMeonA.
. IAd K.                                                                                                                                                          0
k~ ~~~~~~Ta I                   -     ~        ;9'(,.,,,-                                                  ,'/4R  ,17                                                              KIOETR
I        Me,                   s         Seh nTt2'V K                                                                                         MeKILOMETERSl5
GASH-S ETI T(                                  ""A_  PA. tds                 b~d~(                                                                                                   ,,,oede,pyo..,,oT.SSOsG.pe
/        N       Moi      Cu  ~~Al       .> 
I                    t.~~~~~b  VI  I 
T. Ad, Ab-> T.,d .-
0Abu~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5                                                                                                   SAUDI /ARABIA
-.   'V                                                     <,';"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RP.O
(I                                                                                  4                            d                             (ERI fl,E    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN,'
'I>                  ~~~~~~~10                                         1
E T H IOP IA                                                                                                                                  ETH.g   <PRe
NM   -  A~~N~C'~~t~"SOM ALIA
K ENYA
3'7~               38-                        39                                                                                     /    DIBOUTI                  c,ri



