Report No. PIC5207
Project Name                  Eritrea-Human Resources Development Project (@)
Region                        Africa
Sector                        Institutional Development/Technical Assistance
Project ID                    ERPA50354
Borrower                      Government of Eritrea
Implementing Agency           Project Coordination Unit within the
University of Asmara
Date of the initial PID       May 1997
Date of the Final PID         July 1997
Projected Appraisal Date      September 1997
Projected Board Date          December 1997
1.      Country and Sector Background: Eritrea's human development
strategy has to address and keep balance among a host of competing
needs. Eritreans are well aware that to build a strong, globally
competitive nation, they will need an educated and healthy
population. At a minimum that means universal primary education and
access to basic health, followed by ever higher levels of learning
for the great majority of the population which will help Eritrea
achieve rapid growth in the future. Yet, the country must also grow
now, relying on the existing level of skills and knowledge that
have been arrested or severely depleted by decades of war.
2.      To help them in this difficult balancing act of developing
their human resources at the most rapid rate possible (given
physical and financial constraints), the Eritreans have devised a
strategy that has both formal and informal components. On the
formal side is the usual sequence of schools running from primary
to university level, with some attention to the balance between
needs for technical knowledge and the broader, more flexible
academic orientation. The informal strand of the strategy, on the
other hand, tries to deal with Eritrea's legacy of high adult
illiteracy, within the context of the urgent need to develop some
basic technical and entrepreneurial skills needed for either formal
or informal employment. This strand of the strategy also tries to
address the need for continuous in-service upgrading of skills and
knowledge as well as to take care of the learning needs of
adolescents and young adults, who have discontinued their
schooling. These two groups may need some help to reach the
standards requested to enter a particular (higher) level of formal
education, or, if their formal education is for the time being at
an end, to acquire skills that allow them to participate in the
economic and civic life to as full a potential as possible. There
is great concern in Eritrea about minimizing the wastage of human
potential at all levels. To analyze the scarce resources among
competing uses, the Ministry of Education has developed a detailed
simulation model in cooperation with a group from Cornell University.



3.      The fulfillment of their vision critically depends on a rapid
rate of development now and in the near future. To set the right
course for and to kick-start a rapid and sustained development
process requires a minimum set of high-level skills and knowledge
that are at the moment not available in Eritrea in sufficient
quantity. For this reason the Eritreans identified over 1,600
positions in the central ministries (excluding the Ministry of
Defense, the Ministry of Interior and the 6 regional
administrations, whose reform process has not been completed yet)
and at the University of Asmara for which knowledge at the M.A.
level or above is necessary if the current high rates of growth are
to be sustained and improved on.
4.      Why 1,600? This number emerged from a laborious two-phase
restructuring process of the civil service that has been going on
for over two years. In the first phase there was a functional
review of all ministries accompanied by the setting of objectives
for each ministry in the pursuit of an overall development vision
for Eritrea. Having established these objectives, the Eritrean
Government determined what skills and knowledge are needed to
achieve them, and then matched these needs with the skills of the
existing staff, person by person (some 30,000 positions and people
were reviewed). In the end about a third of the civil servants were
found to be redundant or did not possess the needed skills and lost
their jobs. The remainder got a substantial salary increase. There
exists extensive documentation of the entire procedure.
5.      Phase two of the civil service reform was even more radical.
This time the goal was to create a set of central ministries that
perform only four basic functions: (i) policy formulation; (ii)
regulation; (iii) applied R&D; and, (iv) human resources
development (in their sector). This meant that all production of
goods and delivery of services was to be shed, with some to be
delivered in the future by the private sector, and the rest either
by the six regional administrations or various authorities or
commercialized public enterprises. Additional guidelines for
restructuring were that overlaps among ministries were to be
eliminated and that the resulting structures of the ministries had
four properties. They were to be lean (lowest possible number of
employees), efficient (cut out unnecessary hierarchy or procedural
steps), transparent and effective. The outcome of this process is a
central government with 16 ministries (out of 18), totaling about
5,000 employees (fewer than 2 per 1,000 Eritreans). Of this
complement of 5,000, there are over 1,600 vacancies of which 600
would be filled through recruitment from abroad, because they
require an education at M.A. level or above (including medical
doctors, and a few specialized B.A.s) and the rest could be filled
with Eritreans trained at home at lower levels (B.A. degree and
various diplomas and certificates). For this domestic training to
succeed, some of the foreign recruits would be professors at the
University of Asmara and at the Pre-University of Mendefera, and
some would teach in the Teacher Training Institute, in technical
and vocational institutes, and in secondary schools.
6.      Project Objectives: The primary objective of the project is
-2 -



to enable the government to define, implement, and monitor a set of
policy measures which will allow the country to achieve its
development objectives. The instruments identified to achieve these
objectives are the recruitment of trained expatriates to fill the
gaps in 16 central ministries, the University of Asmara, and
selected training institutions, and the training abroad of some 500
Eritreans at M.A. level and above, who will eventually replace them.
7.      Project Description: The project will have three main components:
(a) External Technical Assistance. The recruited foreign
nationals will come from a select number of high quality
universities, from the state and national civil services and from
the private sector. It is expected that these technical experts
will fill 190 positions with the Ministry of Education, serving as
senior teachers in existing secondary schools, the two vocational
technical schools and the primary teachers training college. Other
experts will fill 80 positions at the University of Asmara and the
Pre-University of Mendefera to work with existing and newly
established faculties. Finally, additional experts will be
recruited to work in the civil service, filling 230 key jobs in the
16 ministries where advanced training and experience in technical
areas is required. The external experts will be recruited initially
on two-year contracts.
(b) Foreign Training for Eritrean Nationals. This component
will provide for foreign training for about 500 Eritreans, who are
either in the civil service, the teaching cadre, or the UA, or
would be assigned there once their external training is complete.
The training would be mostly at the M.A. level, though provision is
made for about 80 Ph.D.s and 70 B.A.s in specialized technical
areas. The trained nationals would replace the foreign experts
after a six-month handover period. It is expected that most of the
Eritreans would be trained in India, Pakistan, Bangladesh or Sri
Lanka at high quality institutions. The mechanism for replacing the
foreign experts with local staff is described in the project
implementation section.
(c) Institutional Strengthening and Project Administration.
The project will support the strengthening of the human resource
development functions in the civil service and the UA. The project
will provide computer equipment and technical support to the
research and human resource development department in each ministry
to enable it to handle the external staff placements, to monitor
and evaluate their performance, to manage the inflow of local staff
on return from external training, and to evaluate and monitor
performance of the capacity building program in a given ministry or
in the University of Asmara. In addition the project will support a
Project Coordination Unit to be located in UA which will have
overall responsibility for project implementation and for
monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact.
8.      Project Financing: The overall costs are estimated at USD
62.5 million over 5 years. IDA will finance USD 48.7 million, and
the GOE USD 13.7 million.
-3-



9.      Project Implementation: The project will be implemented
through a Project Coordination Unit (PCU) to be located a the
University of Asmara. It will be headed by a local Project Manager
and will comprise five additional local technical staff: (i)
computerized systems/data base specialist, (ii) training
specialist, (iii) recruitment specialist; (iv) monitoring and
evaluation specialist, and (v) finance and accounts specialist. In
addition, the PCU will have two local secretaries. The project
manager will report directly to the President of the University.
Terms of reference for each professional staff of the PCU will be
included in the Project Implementation Manual.
10.     Two committees will provide policy support and guidance for
the project as well as enable bottlenecks that get identified to be
addressed. The committee that will oversee the implementation of
the Government's human resource development strategy will provide
overall oversight of the project and will ensure that the
implementation of the capacity building program remains consistent
with overall government policy. It will meet periodically. The
President of UA will represent the project on this committee. A
second committee will meet regularly to assess project needs and
performance. This working technical committee will comprise the PCU
manager plus key representatives from each ministry's human
resources department and the UA. The purpose of the technical
committee is to enable the smooth working of both the placement of
external experts and the training of local staff that will
eventually replace the experts While the committee will meet to
discuss overall coordination issues, the PCU will work regularly
with the ministerial and UA human resource development staff to
identify both foreign expert needs and training of local
staff/replacement of experts.
11.     The PCU, working with the ministries and UA, will identify
all foreign expert requirements and prepare detailed Terms of
Reference. The process will be managed, as in the pilot phase, by
an Indian firm, Global Placements. Each technical expert will
initially be hired on a two-year contract. At the same time an
internal candidate will be trained abroad. Upon the return of the
internal candidate there will be a six-month handover period during
which the external expert will act as an advisor, and after which
the internal staff member will assume responsibility for the
specified job.
12.     An important part of the implementation will be the
flexibility to adjust the above targets as the need arises. As the
project unfolds, there may be need in some cases for only one-year
assignments. In other cases, more than two years may be required.
The project is based on an assumption that the above targets will
be adjusted with experience. The PCU will prepare rolling annual
plans on the numbers of experts already in position and to be
recruited and the situation with the training of local staff, and
these will be discussed with visiting Bank supervision missions.
The project will operate on the basis of an Annual Work-Program and
Budget prepared taking into account the emerging needs and the
lessons learnt. The project will be implemented on the basis of a
- 4 -



Project Implementation Plan, which will provide the basic
guidelines for procurement of goods and services, disbursement
arrangements, accounting and reporting requirements.
13.     Project Sustainability: Several factors will ensure the
sustainability of the project: (i) the salary scale adopted by the
government is competitive with the private sector; (ii) the
strategy adopted for training abroad guarantees that the students
remain connected with the country and the specific reality of the
institutions where they will be placed at the end of their
training; (iii) selection of candidates to be sent abroad is based
on academic qualifications and working experience, and the
procedure is extremely transparent; (iv) strengtheining the PCU and
the HRD departments of central ministries will allow the
development of capacity to monitor the evolution of the labor
market and respond to the demand with adequate strategies.
14.     Lessons Learnt from Past Operations in the Country/Sector: A
pilot phase of the project is being implemented with financing from
UNDP. So far, it has involved the recruitment abroad of about 100
professionals, either professors for the University of Asmara, or
teachers, or senior civil servants. The experience obtained during
the pilot phase provides some good lessons which have been built in
the design of the proposed project: (i) the system used to recruit
the international experts, by using the service of a consulting
firm (Global Placement) in India has proved efficient and cost-
effective. The cost equals to USD 400 per expert recruited, and is
paid only when the expert starts his or her service in Eritrea. At
the beginning of the pilot phase the consulting firm was also
charged with pre-screening the candidates, but the results have not
been positive. It has therefore been decided to have the pre-
screening done internally (in the specific case in the University
of Asmara), after which the quality of the short-listed candidates
improved. This practice will be kept in the next phase; (ii) the
experts need to be fully integrated in the Eritrean system: they
are not advisors, but producers, and are subject to the same
standards and treatment as their Eritrean colleagues; (iii) the
package of salary and benefits offered has so far allowed Eritrea
to attract well qualified experts.
15.      The Government has also started with support from various
donors the training of Eritreans abroad, by sending about 100
students to complete their graduate and post-graduate education in
Universities abroad. So far, 10 of them have completed their
studies and all but one of them returned to Eritrea. It is expected
that this rate will be maintained. There are three key elements
guiding the Government's strategy for training abroad: (i) training
has to be relevant to problems and needs identified at the national
level; (ii) part of the training will consist of field work which
is actually done in Eritrea, to keep a close contact between the
person being trained and the institution which will eventually
absorb him or her; and (iii) the mechanism to select those who are
sent abroad is fully transparent and based on merit, academic
qualifications, and working experience.
- 5-



16.     Poverty Category: n/a
17.     Environmental Aspects: The project consists only on technical
assistance and training activities. It is therefore supposed to
have no negative impact on the environment, and has been rated
Category C.
18.     Program Objective Categories: The project supports two of the
most strategic objectives of the Government policy, namely: (i)
establishing an enabling environment to stimulate the process of
growth; and (ii) supporting the development of the human resources
base of the country as the key input in the growth process and as a
means of increasing income-earning prospects of the population.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 458-5454
Fax No.: (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 1, 1997.
- 6 -



