Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3033-ER
Development Credit Agreement
(Human Resources Development Project)
between
THE STATE OF ERITREA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 10, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3033-ER
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 10, 1998, between THE STATE OF 
ERITREA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS (B) the Association has agreed on the basis, inter 
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to 
Development Credit Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 
1985, with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Page  2
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to 
read:
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not a member of the Bank or for 
goods produced in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if 
such payment or import, to the knowledge of the 
Association, is prohibited by a decision of the 
United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If 
(a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account shall have been suspended 
with respect to any amount of the Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, 
the Association determines, after consultation with 
the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not 
be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at 
any time, the Association determines, with respect to 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or 
the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Association to remedy the 
situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures 
in respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds 
of the Credit, or (d) at any time, the Association 
determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
Credit, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of 
the Credit shall remain unwithdrawn from the Credit 
Account, the Association may, by notice to the 
Borrower, terminate the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit 
shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the 
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble 
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth 
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AWPB” means an annual work program and budget 
prepared by the Borrower for the purpose of the Project pursuant to 
paragraph 3  of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year 
Page  3
(b)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year 
starting January 1, and ending December 31.
(c)
“Project Implementation Plan” means the plan adopted 
by the Borrower on October 15, 1997 containing, inter alia, work 
plans, training plans and areas of training, monitoring and 
performance indicators, and procedures to be used for the purpose 
of implementation of the Project, and such term includes any 
schedules to the Project Implementation  Plan;
(d)
“Project Review Committee” means the committee to be 
established under the Project Implementation Plan.
(e)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators 
referred to in Schedule 6 to this Agreement;
(f)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established 
by the Borrower on November 15, 1997 pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement for the purpose of the coordination of 
activities under the Project;
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
(h)
“UA” means the Borrower’s University of Asmara.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the 
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in 
the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies 
equivalent to thirty-nine million one hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 39,100,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn 
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, 
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the 
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be July 31, 2003, or 
such later date as the Association shall establish.  The 
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association 
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not 
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association 
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date 
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to 
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate 
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
Page  4
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter 
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each 
year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such 
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the 
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such 
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be 
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a 
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall 
be payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) 
below, the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit 
in semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 
15 commencing March 15, 2008 and ending September 15, 2037.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on September 
15, 2017 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such 
principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross 
national product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall 
have exceeded for three consecutive years the level established 
annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the 
Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, 
subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under paragraph (a) above by:
(A)
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the 
amount of each such installment not yet due 
until the principal amount of the Credit shall 
have been repaid; and
(B)
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of 
the principal amount of the Credit as of the 
first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more 
after the date on which the Association 
notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may 
revise the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to 
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of 
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed 
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the 
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment 
modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms 
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that 
the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, 
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of 
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to 
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, technical, and educational practices, 
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 
(a) above and except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 
to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants’ services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the 
General Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower 
shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association and furnish to Association, not later than six (6) 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan 
for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. Without limitation on the provisions of 
Section 3.01 above, the Borrower shall, in each fiscal year during 
the implementation of the Project, make budgetary allocations to 
cover its counterpart contribution to the cost of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance 
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project 
or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including 
Page  6
paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including 
those for the Special Account, for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as 
available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other 
information concerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal 
controls involved in their 
preparation, can be relied upon 
to 
support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an 
additional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within 
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely 
that the Borrower has established and implemented an accounting 
system for the Project, acceptable to the Association.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of 
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time 
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
Page  7
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 895
Asmara
Eritrea
Telex:
583492421150
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) 
or
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their 
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be 
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, 
United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
THE STATE OF ERITREA
By
/s/ Semere Russom
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
/s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President
Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the 
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be 
Financed
Page  8
(1)
Equipment
    330,000
100% of 
foreign
expenditures and
90% of 
local
expenditures
(2)
Experts' and
 25,100,000
100%
consultants'
services, studies
and audits
(3)
Training
  9,600,000
100%
(4)
Operating costs
    220,000
90%
(5)
Unallocated
  3,850,000
TOTAL
 39,100,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other 
than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in 
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from 
the territory of the Borrower; provided, however, that if the 
currency of the Borrower is also that of another country from the 
territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be 
"foreign expenditures"; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management 
and monitoring, including office supplies, communications, 
transport, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 3,900,000 may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date, but after October 15, 1997.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit 
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for 
expenditures for: (i) goods under contracts not exceeding $200,000 
equivalent; (ii) services of consulting firms under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) services of individual 
experts and consultants under contracts not exceeding $60,000 
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to build and strengthen the 
capacity of the Borrower’s civil service, the University of Asmara 
Page  9
capacity of the Borrower’s civil service, the University of Asmara 
and other educational institutions. 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree 
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Services of International Experts
Provision of services of experts to fill about 500 positions 
in the UA, the Borrower’s civil service and secondary and tertiary 
educational institutions.
Part B:
External Training
Strengthening of the UA and the Borrower’s civil service 
through the provision of external training, in universities abroad, 
to about 500 individuals at the doctorate, masters and bachelors 
level.
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening:
1.
Provision of technical advisory services to assist the UA 
and the Borrower’s civil service in managing, placing, monitoring 
and evaluating the performance of the external staff, and managing 
the influx of nationals trained abroad and evaluating and 
monitoring their performance.
2.
Strengthening of the UA and the Borrower’s civil service 
through the acquisition of computers, office equipment and office 
supplies.
3.
Provision of technical advisory services and logistical 
assistance to the PCU to assist the implementation of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by January 31, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits” published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in 
January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in paragraph 2 of this Part B, goods 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $30,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  10
paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval at the 
annual meetings of the Project Review Committee, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with 
the provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the 
"Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, 
and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for financial audits, establishment of a 
computerized accounting system in the PCU, monitoring and 
evaluation of Project activities and training of staff in the human 
resources development units of the Borrower’s ministries and 
institutions, and PCU staff, estimated to cost less than $100,000 
equivalent per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for recruitment of experts under Part A of the 
Project and the management of placement of students to be trained 
under Part B of the Project may, with the Association’s prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  11
paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Experts
Services of individual experts under Part A of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of 
Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for 
proposals, the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under 
the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval at the annual meetings of the Project Review 
Committee, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all 
consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $60,000 
or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and 
terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall 
be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of 
this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall implement the Project in accordance with 
the Project Implementation Plan, and except as the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend or waive any 
provision thereof if,  in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, until the completion of the Project, 
maintain the PCU with a team of staff with qualifications and 
experience consistent with the Project Implementation Plan.  The 
PCU shall be headed by a Project Manager and shall comprise a 
Page  12
PCU shall be headed by a Project Manager and shall comprise a 
computer systems/database specialist, training specialist, 
recruitment specialist, monitoring and evaluation specialist and a 
financial and accounting specialist.  The PCU shall be located at 
the UA and shall report to the President thereof.
3.
The Borrower shall, through the PCU, furnish to the 
Association a quarterly progress report including information on 
the status of the Project, having regard to Performance Indicators, 
and based on data from the monitoring system. The report shall 
include, inter alia: (a) progress in the implementation of the 
AWPB; (b) progress in the financial and administration aspects of 
the Project; and (c) an assessment of the overall performance and 
any major bottlenecks.
4.
For the purpose of providing oversight and policy guidance 
to the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the following two 
committees: (a) the Human Resources Committee which shall be 
responsible for the oversight of the implementation of the 
Borrower’s human resources development strategy, shall comprise 
representatives of the different ministries of the Borrower and the 
President of the UA; and (b) the Technical Committee which shall be 
responsible for the smooth functioning of the placement of external 
experts and the training of local staff, shall comprise the Project 
Manager as well as representatives of the human resources 
departments of the Borrower’s ministries and the UA.
5.
The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association, 
not later than November 31 each year, a preliminary annual work 
program and budget. The Borrower and the Association shall discuss 
each preliminary AWPB at the annual meeting of the Project Review 
Committee and, after incorporating comments agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Association, the Borrower shall, not later than 
January 1, adopt the annual work program and budget (AWPB).
6.
The Borrower shall carry out jointly with the Association, a 
comprehensive annual project implementation review aimed at: (a) 
assessing progress toward meeting Project objectives; (b) 
identifying and resolving obstacles to Project implementation; and 
(c) adjusting targets and corresponding programs to reflect 
progress achieved in the implementation of the Project as of the 
date of the review.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in 
accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference agreed upon by the 
Borrower and the Association, and furnish to the Association, on or 
about 30 months after the Effective Date, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this paragrah, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, not later than 30 days 
after the date referred to in subparagraph (b) above, or such later 
date as the Borrower and the Association shall have agreed upon, 
the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this paragraph, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said 
Page  13
report.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) 
through (4) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures 
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equivalent to $5,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) 
of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited 
to an amount equivalent to $2,500,000 until the aggregate amount of 
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal 
to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,900,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the 
provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to 
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of 
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do 
not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Association shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to, or at the time of each such request, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association 
the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of 
each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
Page  14
expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit 
Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special 
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall 
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and 
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this 
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further 
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have 
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the 
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the 
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 
(b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified 
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the 
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit 
allocated to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated 
to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further 
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time 
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an 
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of 
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the 
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time 
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be 
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Page  15
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund 
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, 
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on 
deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit 
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Performance Indicators
1.
230 foreign experts in place in 16 ministries by the 
completion of the third year of Project implementation.
2.
Terms of reference for each policy, regulatory and research 
and development unit to be upgraded by the completion of the 
third year of Project implementation.
3.
90% of trained Eritreans to have replaced foreign experts in 
16 ministries by the date of completion of the Project.
4.
160 foreign teachers in place by the completion of the third 
year of Project implementation.
5.
90% of trained Eritreans to have replaced the teachers by 
the date of completion of the Project.
6.
110 foreign professors in place in UA by the completion of 
the third year of Project implementation.
7.
70% of Eritreans trained abroad to have replaced the foreign 
professors by the date of completion of the Project.
8.
New disciplines in Health Sciences (Pharmacy, Medicine, 
Dentistry), Engineering (Electrical, Civil, Mechanical, 
Chemical, Architecture), Education (Secondary level 
teachers, supervisors, school administrators) to be 
available to students by the date of completion of the 
Project.
9.
At least 60 staff members of Human Resources Development 
units trained in Human Resources management by the 
completion of the second year of Project implementation.
10.
A database established at UA/Human Resources Development 
units level by the completion of the second year of Project 
implementation.
11.
A monitoring and evaluation system established at PCU/Human 
Resources Development units level by the completion of the 
first year of Project implementation.
12.
PCU with core staff established by the Effective Date.
13.
Timely submission of Annual Work Program and Budget.
14.
Timely production of quarterly and annual reports.
Page  16
