Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB3651 
Project Name 
Burundi Second Multisectoral HIV/AIDS Project 
Region 
AFRICA 
Sector 
Other social services (65%);Health (25%);General information 
and communications sector (10%) 
Project ID 
P109964 
Borrower(s) 
THE REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
Ministry of Finance 
Burundi 
 
Implementing Agency 
 
Permanent Secretariat of the National Council for HIV/AIDS 
control (SEP/CNLS), Chaussee Prince Louis Rwagasore, 
Immeuble “Banque de la ZEP”, B.P. 836  
Bujumbura, Republic of Burundi 
Tel: +257 22 24 53 00, Fax: +257 22 24 53 01 
courriel: fndayishimiye@cnlsburundi.org 
CNLS 
Batiment Banque de Piti 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
Tel: 257 245 300 
Fax: 257 245 302 
SEP-CNLS@USAN-BU.NET 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
February 11, 2008 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
February12, 2008 
Date of Board Approval 
May 13, 2008 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
In 2000 the Bank and the Government of Burundi, with UNAIDS support, began a policy 
dialogue on how to control the spread of the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the country and reduce its 
social and economic impact. The resulting National HIV/AIDS Control Strategy (2002-2006) 
was the basis for an IDA Multisectoral Grant of about US$32 million, approved in June 2002. At 
the time IDA was the first and only donor supporting the country in its fight against the 
epidemic. Despite the unstable political and security situation, and the fact that Burundi is one of 
the poorest nations in the world, the Government put in place a set of institutions and staffed 
them with adequate personnel. As a result, activities financed under the first Grant are being 
carried out with minimal delays and the Project is likely to achieve its development objectives 
when its activities are completed in December 2007. The Borrower has repeatedly shown its 
commitment to HIV/AIDS control by, among other things: (i) including HIV/AIDS as one of the 
six central themes of the PRSP; (ii) regularly allocating government budget and HIPC resources; 
Page  2
(iii) creating an HIV/AIDS Ministry; (iv) creating and maintaining a competent team to manage 
HIV/AIDS activities; and (v) preparing the new 2007-2011 strategy, through a participatory 
process, approving it, and presenting it to the donor community at the June 2007 roundtable.  
 
Currently, the estimated amount needed to implement the National Plan is US$145
1
million, of which only about 35% is currently covered the current MAP, the Government 
(HIPC), and the Global Fund (US$ 3.5, US$20 and US$29 million, respectively). Burundi has 
not been selected as recipient of resources from the round seven from the Global Fund. 
Therefore, since no other donors have expressed an intention to contribute in a substantial way to 
finance the National Strategy and Plan, it is safe to say, that the country is facing substantial 
shortage of resources to continue its efforts to curb the epidemic.  The IDA Grant (US$20 
million) will help cover part of the gap and will given the country the breathing space until the 
eight round of the Global Fund in mid 2008.  In any case it is probably safe to say that even in 
the best-case scenario, total available financing will probably be insufficient to achieve 
Burundi’s MDG HIV/AIDS targets. IDA’s resources are thus fundamental to even a moderately 
successful curbing of the epidemic, and will initiate the process of streamlining HIV/AIDS 
activities in key ministries thus leveraging additional resources from other sectors.  
 
2. Objectives 
The Project objective is to increase the coverage and or utilization of a selected set of 
preventive and treatment services, among groups highly vulnerable to or affected by HIV/AIDS. 
The National strategy includes specific indicators for each of these objectives, and a few have 
been selected for the PPF request.  A final agreement on key indicators including the scorecard 
indicators adopted by the Africa region will be agreed upon before appraisal.        
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
Besides much-needed financial resources, IDA brings added value to the Program through: 
(i) convening power, which has all along helped the Government implement the “three ones”; (ii) 
intense technical guidance and M&E support through careful supervision; (iii) its ability to work 
with multiple sectors receiving Bank support in order to foster a sustainable, multi-sectoral 
response; (iv) the possibility of helping the government in its efforts to increase convergence 
with other health Programs and strategies through our upcoming health operations; (v) its unique 
capacity to finance system development, capacity building; and, (vi) flexibility to cover 
unforeseen financial gaps in key activities. Government, communities and partner agencies have 
indicated that they consider IDA’s continuing involvement in the national program as critical, 
particularly in the areas of prevention and support to civil society. A Project Preparation Facility 
(PPF) Fund request in the amount of US$ 1.4 million has been granted. 
 
These multisectoral activities are central to control HIV/AIDS. 
Preventive activities are often 
the most cost-effective and lessons from international experience have shown them to be the 
most effective way to control the epidemic.  Sector ministries, professional and labor 
organizations, and civil society groups are better placed that the Ministry of Health to deal with 
behavior change and regulations to reduce stigma in their respective groups of influence such as 
fishermen (in the case of Burundi), commercial sex workers, truckers, displaced workers in big 
civil works, prisoners, policemen etc.  Social protection for highly vulnerable or HIV/AIDS 
Page  3
affected individuals and families, are considered a central part of any comprehensive preventive 
strategy as they try to lessen vulnerability which is one of the underlying determinants of the 
spread of the epidemic.   
 
Besides the much-needed financial resources, IDA brings added value to the National 
Program in a number of different ways
.
In national and international fora, the government, 
communities an
d
partner agencies have indicated  that they consider IDA’s continuing 
involvement in the National Program as critical, particularly regarding it multisectoral capacity 
and in the areas of prevention and support to civil society. 
 
Description 
Since the financing gap for the National Plan is substantial, both the Government and IDA have 
selected a limited set of activities for IDA financing. The Grant would be a Specific Investment 
Loan supporting activities from the National HIV/AIDS Plan (2007-2011) selected on the bases 
of appropriateness for Burundi’s epidemic as per ongoing survey results, proven cost-
effectiveness, and complementarity to activities financed by other donors, mainly the Global 
Fund.  By focusing on capacity building, development and improvement of processes and 
systems, and prevention activities for high risk groups, IDA funds would enable the Borrower to 
use the GF funds more efficiency. The Grant will have a unified category only so that 
reallocation can be easily done in case potential financing for some critical activity fails to 
materialize. The team considered a programmatic loan and budget support but the weakness of 
Burundi’s financial management capacity, as experienced in the management of HIPC funds, 
suggest that a SIL would be more appropriate in current conditions.  
 
Project components will follow the four axes of the National Program. Specifically, IDA funds 
will finance the following selected activities under the following four components:  
 
Component 1: Preventive Services Targeted to High Risk Groups (IDA financing: US$8 
million).
Interventions supported by this component fall under the first axis (or 
operational Program) of NHAS 2007-2011, and aim at reducing HIV transmission among 
high risk groups
 through behavior change and increased access to preventative services, 
particularly PMTCT services, to the whole territory. 
Component 2: Performance-Based Preventive Services Targeted to High Risk Groups 
(IDA financing: US$4 million)
.
This component will 
support the geographic extension 
of ARV treatment
 and opportunistic infection prophylaxis and treatment to HIV+ people 
in the whole country.  To achieve this objective, IDA resources will finance technical 
assistance to improve existing performance-based service contracts/agreements between 
the MOH and
 
public and private health facilities to provide clinical care for HIV/AIDS 
patients.  Currently such contact / agreements are between the SEP/CNLS and the service 
providers. Finally, resources under this component will also help further develop 
community-based home care services in a limited set of communities. 
 
Component 3: Decentralized Financing of Small Grants to Families living with 
HIV/AIDS and High Risk Groups (IDA financing: US$ 4 million).
This component aims at 
providing limited economic and legal support to the most vulnerable families affected by 
HIV/AIDS.  IDA grant resources will use the mechanisms set-up under the first MAP to 
Page  4
finance sub-projects managed by NGOs, developmental commune councils and 
community-groups, that provide small grants to vulnerable families, and families living 
with HIV/AIDS to increase treatment compliance; and increase their capacity to nourish 
themselves in order to improve the impact of drugs. 
 
Component 4: Capacity Building for Local Authorities and Key Ministries to Implement 
HIV/AIDS Activities, and National Program Management (IDA financing: US$ 3 
million).
The objectives of this component are to build capacity to implement and 
monitor HIV/AIDS activities in key ministries and local governments, contribute to 
ensure adequate operation of the SEP/CNLS; Increase the SEP/CNLS capacity to manage 
the M&E system, in particular carry-out impact assessment of interventions; and 
implement the National Waste Management plan. 
 
The proposed Grant would permit consolidation of recent gains on the ground and allow for the 
scaling-up of the local integrated response to HIV/AIDS and other well-performing HIV 
prevention activities. It would also allow the strengthening of the quality of current interventions 
and the strengthening of key public agencies, in particular the MOH. The support to the MOH 
would follow the National health strategy, ensuring a coordinated and harmonized approach to 
health services. The Project will assess whether indigenous groups are particularly affected by 
HIV/AIDS and will ensure that they have adequate access to culturally appropriated services.  
 
4. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
International Development Association (IDA) 
15 
 Total 
15 
 
5. Implementation 
 
The implementation arrangements under the additional financing would be virtually the 
same as for the ongoing project, as they are working well. The only difference will be the 
creation of a dedicated MOH sub-account. This sub-account would be managed by the general 
directorate of resources of the MOH.  This directorate direction will hire an accountant, an 
assistant accountant and a procurement specialist to manage those resources in accordance with 
IDA procedures. Annual disbursements to that account will be agreed upon at the latest in the 
month of October of the previous year, after approval by the SEP/CNLS and IDA of an annual 
work plan and performance indicators. In terms of decentralization of local personnel to 
provincial level, the Project would follow the current practice of provincial accounts to be 
justified regularly. 
 
6. Sustainability 
 
The Borrower has repeatedly shown its commitment to HIV/AIDS control and has taken several 
steps in this regard.  These include: (i) including HIV/AIDS as one of the six central themes of 
the PRSP; (ii) regularly allocating government budget and HIPC resources; (iii) creating and 
Page  5
maintaining a competent team to manage HIV/AIDS activities; (iv) preparing the new 2007-2011 
NHAS through a participatory process and including lessons learned from 2002-2006 NHAS; 
and (v) approving the 2007-2011 NHAS, preparing its operational plan and presenting both to 
the donor community at the June 2007 roundtable for financing.  
 
Given the current centralized implementation arrangements, one of the key issues is the 
institutional sustainability of HIV/AIDS.  The Proposed project intends to tackle this issue 
through focusing on mainstreaming key activities in the agencies that have the Governmental 
mandate to carry out those activities, notably the MOH and the Local authorities.  As the 
responsibility to implement activities is progressively taken back by those institutions, it is 
expected that the financial burden of these activities will also progressively be shared, thereby 
increasing somewhat the financial sustainability of individual interventions.   
 
7.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
Lessons learned from the implementation of the first strategy and international experiences have 
been included in the updated NHAS 2007-2011, and the requested a follow-up IDA-financed 
MAP. A summary of those lessons is listed below. 
Technical lessons learned
:
(a)  Every country, and zone within a country, has a unique epidemic profile and success is 
directly correlated to tailoring interventions to that specificity;  
(b)  In a relatively concentrated epidemic, targeted interventions in high-risk areas and groups 
are the most effective way to reduce transmission because of the multiplier effect of 
prevention to the general population; 
(c)  Behavior change activities for high risk groups need to be tailored carefully and monitored 
and evaluated regularly to ensure that they are having an impact; 
(d)  Previously well-accepted interventions, substantially financed under the first National 
Strategy and MAP1, are proving difficult to substantiate under stricter empirical scrutiny: 
mass VCT, STI treatment (in the general population), mass condom distribution, mass 
media campaigns, etc;  
(e)  Interventions not previously financed have come to the forefront of prevention: male 
circumcision, reduction of partner concurrency, peer-based communication for behavior 
change, and condom distribution in high-risk settings;  
(f) 
Surveillance, and epidemiological and analytical work, to correctly direct policies and 
interventions are generally under-funded;  
(g)  Impact assessment of interventions is a must to redirect policies and ensure results; and, 
(h)  Linking financing of services to performance increases transparency on the management 
of public resources, creates incentives for efficiency and helps share the risks inherent in 
any intervention between the provider and the financer.  
 
Institutional lessons learned
:
(i) 
Concentration of resources and capacity by a coordinating body at the highest political 
level ha
s
positive effects; but it also tends to create “supra-ministries” that take on 
Page  6
functions beyond their coordinating mandate and thereby create friction with other public 
agencies and local authorities, undermining the already low capacity of the public sector; 
(j) 
Streamlining activities in other sectors is crucial for institutional and financial 
sustainability of the fight against HIV/AIDS and to increase the impact of the activities; 
(k)  Integrating HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment interventions within the existing health 
system is needed to increase institutional sustainability, rationalize the use of scarce 
resources, and strengthen rather than debilitating the normally weak health system; 
(l) 
In situations with a moderate level of conflict, decentralization of activities and resources 
can help ensure implementation even as the security situation does not grant free 
circulation of persons;  
(m) Sharing M&E results with stakeholders and decision-makers helps get support for the 
strategy changes that may be necessary;  
(n)  Persons living with HIV/AIDS are best reached through community mobilization; and, 
(o)  Communication activities have to be regularly and rigorously assessed and adapted to 
ensure their usefulness in HIV/AIDS control. 
 
Interventions in the new 2007-2011 NHAS remain somewhat scattered but the government has 
taken steps to further improve the document. Lack of country-wide reliable epidemiological data 
has resulted in a limited understanding of the dynamics of Burundi’s epidemiological profile and 
of risky behaviors which favor the spread of HIV. As part of the M&E system the country has 
launched a nation-wide epidemiological and socio-behavioral survey which should help further 
refine the NHAS and by extension the proposed Project interventions. Concomitantly, an ASAP-
financed technical assistance will help refine the new NHAS action-plan, and will constitute the 
foundation to target IDA resources towards the most effective approaches. As part of project 
preparation and supervision, GAMET support will further strengthen the existing national M&E 
system and operational plan particularly in the areas of impact evaluation of specific 
interventions and data use for decision making.  
Specifically the new 2006-2011 NHAS calls for:  
(a)  Continued commitment of the Head of State, Government, political and religious leaders, 
and communities to fight the HIV/AIDS epidemics; 
(b)  Protection of the rights of HIV+ and vulnerable groups; 
(c)  A continuation of the multi-sector response to guarantee comprehensive response; 
(d)  Further decentralization of financing to provinces, reinforcement of partnerships and 
stronger involvement of all strata of the community;  
(e)  Emphasis of prevention and VCT on high risk groups, geographic expansion of 
preventive MTCT and treatment services. 
(f) 
Improvement of existing performance–based contracts and agreements with service 
providers (public and NGOs) to increase the accountability and efficiency and assess the 
impact of interventions. 
(g)  Further responsabilization of key public institutions according to their respective 
mandates; 
Coherence of HIV/AIDS and Heath strategies in the relevant actions; 
 
8. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Page  7
The project has triggered OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment due to the potential adverse 
environmental impacts of poor medical waste management. The environmental category is B, 
and the safeguards category is S2. 
 
In an effort to mitigate potential adverse environmental and social impacts effectively, the 
project has prepared a study: 
“Etude sur la mise en place de plans de Gestion des Déchets 
Biomédicaux”,
 November 2007. This study has been disclosed in Burundi on February 6, 2008, 
and at the Bank’s Infoshop on February 11, 2008. 
 
The study assessed current medical waste management practices in Burundi and made general 
recommendations for improvements. It noted that health care professionals have a very limited 
understanding of the dangers of medical waste, and the public information campaigns via radio 
and other channels do not highlight the risks of poor medical waste management. The most 
serious risk is the potential spread of HIV/AIDS due to improperly handled and disposed medical 
waste (blood, urine, syringes, sharps, bandages, laboratory waste etc.). The main 
recommendations centered on the importance of training health center personnel in safe medical 
waste management and to ensure its safe disposal. The project will not fund any construction or 
rehabilitation activities. 
 
The study was prepared in consultation with health care personnel, hygiene and sanitation 
personnel, representatives of the Institut National pour l’Environnement et la Conservation de la 
Nature (INECN), Bureau Burundais de Normalisation et de Contrôle de Qualité (BBN), Ministry 
of Public Health, provincial sanitation facilitities, and environmental health specialists, and 
involved site visits to several representative health care facilities. Their views have been 
reflected in the study. 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
x] 
[ 
] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[
x] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[x ] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[x ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[x ] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[x ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[x ] 
9.  List of Factual Technical Documents 
Etude sur la mise en place de plans de Gestion des Déchets Biomédicaux (Disclosed on February 8, 
2008) 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
Project Appraisal Document will be disclosed after Negotiations. 
10.  Contact point 
Contact: Montserrat Meiro-Lorenzo 
Title: Sr Public Health Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-0161 
Fax: (202) 473-8107 
Email: Mmeirolorenzo@worldbank.org 
 
11. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
