Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H383-BI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Second Multisectoral HIV / AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 16, 2008  
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H383-BI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated July 16, 2008, entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
BURUNDI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to nine 
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,400,000) 
(variously, 
“Grant”, and “Financing”) to assist in financing the project described 
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
 
Page  3
2
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project and the 
Program.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through its 
National AIDS Control Council in accordance with the provisions of Article IV 
of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following: 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the 
Program or a significant part thereof shall be carried out. 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has adopted the Project Procedures Manual and the 
Ministry of Public Health and AIDS Control Procedures Manual, both in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
The Recipient has appointed, to the accounting units of the entities 
involved in Project implementation, in accordance with the provisions of 
Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement as applicable, staff in 
adequate numbers with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference 
satisfactory to the Association, for purposes of Project implementation.
 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.
 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Economy, Finance, and Development Cooperation 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
5135 
  257-22-22-38-27 
MINIFINBDI 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Bujumbura, Burundi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Clotilde 
Nizigama 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Alassane 
Sow 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to increase the coverage of a selected set of 
preventive and treatment services among groups highly vulnerable to, or affected by, HIV 
/
AIDS. 
The Project, which is part of the Program, consists of the following parts: 
1. 
Preventive Services Targeted at High-Risk Groups
(a) 
Carrying out of Subprojects relating to promotion of behavioral change 
in high-risk groups, and communication campaigns for promotion of 
male circumcision. 
(b) 
Provision of voluntary counseling and testing services to high-risk 
groups. 
(c) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Permanent Executive 
Secretariat in relation to design and piloting of performance-based 
contracts for carrying out of behavioral change activities. 
(d) 
Carrying out of training of health personnel and provision of medical 
supplies to public and private health service providers in relation to 
delivery of prevention-of-mother-to-child-transmission service packages 
and provision of safe male circumcision services. 
(e) 
Delivery of prevention-of-mother-to-child-transmission and male 
circumcision services through implementation of performance-based 
contracts between 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for health 
and public and private health service providers. 
(f) 
Accreditation of said service providers and supervision of said contracts 
by said ministry, including provision of capacity-building support to said 
ministry in this regard. 
(g) 
Provision of selected medical supplies, such as prevention-of-mother-to-
child-transmission drugs, and contraceptives, to health service providers 
as needed. 
Page  7
6
(h) 
Provision of supplies, such as gloves or other protective tools, and 
capacity-building support to public and private health service providers 
in relation to implementation of National Waste Management Plan. 
2. 
Performance-Based Clinical and Community-Based Services for AIDS Patients
(a) 
Provision of clinical care to HIV / AIDS patients through financing of 
performance-based service contracts between the 
Recipient’s ministry at 
the time responsible for health and public and private health service 
providers. 
(b) 
Carrying out of training of personnel of selected health service providers 
in preparation of accreditation of said service providers for HIV / AIDS 
treatment delivery. 
(c) 
Carrying out of Subprojects relating to provision of home care services 
in selected communities. 
3. 
Grants to Families of Persons Living with HIV / AIDS and High-Risk Groups
Carrying out of Subprojects relating to treatment compliance by and nourishment 
of vulnerable families and families of persons living with HIV / AIDS and 
provision of support to HIV / AIDS orphans and widows, with particular focus 
on socio-legal rights and stigmatization issues. 
4. 
Capacity Building of Local Authorities and Key Ministries for HIV / AIDS 
Activities Implementation, and Program Management
(a) 
Financing of part of operating costs of Permanent Executive Secretariat 
in relation to Program management, including Project management. 
(b) 
Provision of capacity-building support to Recipient’s monitoring and 
evaluation system in relation to carrying out of impact evaluations and 
epidemiological studies, provision of evidence for effective targeting of 
interventions based on vulnerability mapping and periodic triangulation 
of data for identification of high-risk factors, provision of support to 
biological and behavioral HIV surveillance among general population 
and high-risk groups, sentinel surveillance, and monitoring of behavior, 
and data analysis and use of strategic information for Program and 
activity improvement.
 
Page  8
7
(c) 
Provision of support to local authorities in relation to decentralization 
pilot for supervision and data collection activities in Communes and 
Communities. 
(d) 
Implementation, coordination, or supervision,
 by Recipient’s other 
ministries and target entities, of HIV / AIDS activities in their respective 
sectors, including provision of capacity-building support to said 
ministries and entities in this regard. 
Page  9
8
SCHEDULE 2
 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
National AIDS Control Council
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the National 
AIDS Control Council, including the Executive Committee, Permanent 
Executive Secretariat, Communal AIDS Control Committees, and Provincial 
AIDS Control Committees, all with an institutional framework, functions, and 
resources satisfactory to the Association for purposes of Project implementation. 
2. 
The National AIDS Control Council shall be responsible for Project coordination 
and management in accordance with the following institutional arrangements. 
 
Executive Committee 
3. 
The Executive Committee shall be responsible for overall Project management, 
including promotion of Project activities, appraisal of Subprojects as set out in 
Part D of this Section, and monitoring of progress in Project implementation. 
 
Permanent Executive Secretariat 
4. 
The Permanent Executive Secretariat shall be responsible for day-to-day 
coordination and implementation of Parts 1 (a)-(c), 2 (c), 3, and 4 of the Project 
and administrative and financial management under the Project, including 
preparation of the annual work plans and budgets referred to in Section V.D of 
this Schedule, procurement and monitoring and evaluation, and related reporting 
to and provision of support to the National AIDS Control Council. 
 
Communal AIDS Control Committees 
5. 
The Communal AIDS Control Committees shall be responsible for day-to-day 
Project coordination and implementation at Commune level. 
Page  10
9
Provincial AIDS Control Committees
 
6. 
The Provincial AIDS Control Committees shall be responsible for day-to-day 
Project coordination and implementation at Province level. 
 
Ministry at the Time Responsible for Health
7. 
The National AIDS Control Council shall, no later than one (1) month after the 
Effective Date, enter into an agreement, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, with the 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for health, for 
purposes of day-to-day coordination and implementation of Parts 1 (d)-(h) and 
2
(a) and (b) of the Project. 
8. 
The Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for health shall be responsible 
for day-to-day coordination and implementation of Parts 1 (d)-(h) and 2 (a) and 
(b) of the Project in accordance with the provisions of said agreement. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Manuals 
1. 
The Recipient shall: (i) carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Procedures Manual and the Ministry of Public Health and AIDS Control 
Procedures Manual; and (ii) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, not 
assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, 
or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. 
In the event of any discrepancy between the provisions of the Project Procedures 
Manual, those of the Ministry of Public Health and AIDS Control Procedures 
Manual, and those of this Agreement, the latter shall prevail. 
Page  11
10
D. Subprojects
 
1. General
(a) 
The Recipient shall maintain, throughout Project implementation, the 
Communal AIDS Control Committees and the Provincial AIDS Control 
Committees, with an institutional framework, functions, and resources 
satisfactory to the Association. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this 
Section, the following entities shall, on behalf of the Recipient, appraise, 
approve, and monitor and evaluate Subprojects in accordance with the 
provisions of this Part D and the Project Procedures Manual: 
(i) 
 
the respective Communal AIDS Control Committee shall 
appraise, approve, and monitor and evaluate Subprojects costing 
up to $3,000 equivalent; 
(ii) 
 
the respective Provincial AIDS Control Committee shall 
appraise, approve, and monitor and evaluate Subprojects costing 
more than $3,000 equivalent and up to $10,000 equivalent; 
(iii)  
the Permanent Executive Secretariat shall appraise, approve, and 
monitor and evaluate Subprojects costing more than $10,000 
equivalent and up to $100,000 equivalent; and 
(iv)  
the Executive Committee shall appraise, approve, and monitor 
and evaluate Subprojects costing more than $100,000 equivalent 
and up to $1,000,000 equivalent. 
2. 
Subproject Grant Eligibility and Subproject Implementation Guidelines and 
Procedures 
No proposed Subproject shall be eligible for financing under the Project unless 
the respective Communal AIDS Control Committee, the respective Provincial 
AIDS Control Committee, the Permanent Executive Secretariat, or the Executive 
Committee, as the case may be, has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with this Part D and the Project Procedures Manual, that 
the proposed Subproject and the proposed Beneficiary satisfy the eligibility 
criteria specified below and in further detail in the Project Procedures Manual, 
which shall include the following: 
Page  12
11
(a) 
the proposed Subproject has been prepared by a Civil Society 
Organization which meets the eligibility criteria specified in the Project 
Procedures Manual; 
(b) 
the proposed Subproject is for activities set forth in Section 1 (a), 2 (c), 
or 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and described in further detail in 
the Project Procedures Manual; 
(c) 
the proposed Subproject satisfies none of the non-eligibility criteria 
specified in the Project Procedures Manual; 
(d) 
the proposed Subproject complies with the National Waste Management 
Plan; and 
(e) 
the proposed Subproject complies with the standards and requirements 
set forth in the 
Recipient’s applicable laws and regulations relating to the 
Program. 
3. 
Terms and Conditions of Subproject Grant Agreements
(a) 
A Subproject shall be carried out by a Beneficiary pursuant to a 
Subproject Grant Agreement, to be concluded between the National 
AIDS Control
 
Council on behalf of the Recipient and the respective 
Beneficiary, under terms and conditions, satisfactory to the Association, 
and described in further detail in the Project Procedures Manual, which 
shall include the following:
 
(i) 
a description of the Subproject, its budget, and applicable 
performance indicators; 
(ii) 
the provision of the Subproject Grant on a grant basis; 
(iii) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to: (A) carry out the Subproject 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound 
medical, technical, environmental, financial, and administrative  
practices; (B) ensure that the resources required for the 
Subproject are provided promptly as needed; (C) maintain 
adequate records to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the resources, operations, and expenditures relating  
to the Subproject; and (D) at the request of the Association or the 
Recipient, have such records audited by independent auditors 
Page  13
12
acceptable to the Association, in accordance with consistently 
applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and 
promptly furnish the records as so audited to the Recipient  
and the Association; 
(iv) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Subproject in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption 
Guidelines; 
(v) 
the requirement that the goods, works, and consultants’ services 
to be financed from the proceeds of the Subproject Grant shall  
be procured in accordance with procedures ensuring efficiency 
and economy and in accordance with the provisions 
 
of Section III of this Schedule, and shall be used exclusively  
in the carrying out of the Subproject; and 
(vi) 
the right of the National AIDS Control
 
Council, on behalf of the 
Recipient, and of the Recipient in its own right, to: (A) inspect 
by itself, or jointly with the Association, if the Association shall 
so request, the goods, works, sites, plants, and construction 
included in the Subproject, the operations thereof, and any 
relevant records and documents; (B) obtain all information as it, 
or the Association, shall reasonably request regarding the 
administration, operation, and financial condition 
 
of the Subproject and the Beneficiary; and (C) suspend or 
terminate the right of any Beneficiary to use the proceeds of the 
Subproject Grant upon failure by the Beneficiary to perform any 
of its obligations under the Subproject Grant Agreement. 
(b) 
The National AIDS Control Council, or the Recipient, as the case may 
be, shall exercise its rights under the Subproject Grant Agreement in 
such manner as to protect its interests and the interests of the Association 
and to achieve the Project objective, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or 
waive, or permit to be assigned, amended, abrogated, or waived, any 
substantive provision of the aforementioned.
 
E. Safeguards
 
1. 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project, including any Subprojects, is 
implemented in accordance with the provisions of the National Waste 
Management Plan
,
and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the 
Page  14
13
Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, or waive, or permit to be assigned, 
amended, abrogated, or waived, the aforementioned, or any provision thereof. 
2. The 
Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for health shall be responsible 
for implementation of the National Waste Management Plan. 
3. 
No contract for works may be concluded under the Project unless: (a) the 
proposed activity has been subject to prior review, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, by the Permanent Executive Secretariat, for 
purposes of determining whether an environmental and social assessment is 
required; and (b) the contract in question includes appropriate environmental and 
social protection provisions, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, including, as applicable, the appropriate disposal of waste materials, 
use of non-toxic construction materials, and respect for cultural property. 
4. 
The Recipient shall: (a) carry out, in a manner satisfactory to the Association and 
prior to implementation of the proposed activity, any environmental and social 
assessment required pursuant to the prior review referred to in paragraph 3 of this 
Part E; and (b) carry out the proposed activity in accordance with the 
environmental and social protection provisions referred to in said paragraph. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph. Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of 
the period covered by such report. 
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
Page  15
14
 
No. Indicator 
1. 
Percentage of female sex workers reporting condom use with most recent client 
(under 25 years of age; over 25 years of age) 
2. 
Percentage of men and women from 15-49 years of age having had more than 
one (1) sexual partner in preceding 12 months reporting condom use during last 
instance of sexual intercourse (15-19 years of age; 20-24 years of age; 25-
49 years of age) 
3. 
Number and percentage of HIV-positive pregnant women having received 
complete course of anti-retroviral treatment 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than 45 days
 
after the end of 
each calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering 
the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient, 
commencing with the fiscal year in which the first withdrawal under the Project 
Preparation Advance was made.  The audited Financial Statements for each such 
period shall be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the 
end of such period. 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
Page  16
15
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Limited International Bidding
 
(b) National Competitive Bidding 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
(e) Procurement from United Nations
 
(f) Community Participation procedures described in Project Procedures Manual
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
Page  17
16
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Quality-Based Selection 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Single Source Selection 
(d) Procedures set forth in paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines 
for the Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
(a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or more; 
(b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more; 
(c) each contract for goods or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting; 
(d) each contract for consultants’ services with specific and exclusive regard to 
the terms of reference of said contract; (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
provided by a firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (f) each 
contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $50,000 or more; (g) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on the basis of Single Source Selection; and (h) each contract for 
Training, including workshops and study tours, in accordance with the provisions 
of the Project Procedures Manual.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post 
Review by the Association.
 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to: (a) repay the 
Page  18
17
Project Preparation Advance in accordance with Section 2.07 of the General 
Conditions; and (b) finance 100% (inclusive of Taxes) of other Eligible 
Expenditures, consisting of goods, works, non-consulting s
ervices, consultants’ 
services (including for audits), Subprojects, Training, and Operating Costs. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. 
National AIDS Control Council and Recipient’s Ministry at the Time 
Responsible for Health
 
The Recipient shall, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, clarify, 
in a manner satisfactory to the Association, particularly for purposes of Project 
implementation, the responsibilities of the National AIDS Control Council and 
the Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for health, respectively, and the 
arrangements for coordination between said two entities. 
B. 
National AIDS Control Council Budget
 
The Recipient shall allocate, on an annual basis in its budget law throughout 
Project implementation, $3 million equivalent to the National AIDS Control 
Council for purposes of carrying out of activities under the latter’s annual work 
plans. 
C. External 
Auditors
 
The Recipient shall, no later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, appoint, 
in accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, external 
auditors, with qualifications, experience, and terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association, for purposes of the carrying out of the audit referred to in 
Section II.B.3 of this Schedule. 
Page  19
18
D. 
Annual Work Plans and Budgets 
The Recipient shall furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than September 1 of each year, the annual work plan and budget for 
the Project for each subsequent year of Project implementation, of such scope 
and detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, except for the 
annual work plan and budget for the Project for the first year of Project 
implementation, which shall be furnished no later than one (1) month after the 
Effective Date. 
E. Annual 
Reviews 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators referred 
to in Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule, the carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 1 of each year, a report 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding 
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c) 
review with the Association, by July 1 or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
F. Midterm 
Review 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association, no later than 24 months after the 
Effective Date, a midterm review to assess the status of Project 
Page  20
19
implementation, as measured against the performance indicators referred 
to in Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule.  Such review shall include an 
assessment of the following: (i) overall progress in Project 
implementation; (ii) results of monitoring and evaluation activities; 
(iii) annual work plans and budgets; (iv) progress on procurement and 
disbursement; and (v) Project implementation arrangements; and make 
adjustments to the Project and reallocate funds to improve performance, 
if needed; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association, three (3) months before such 
review, a report, in scope and detail satisfactory to the Association, 
needed to undertake the review, integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during 
the period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period following 
such date; and 
(c) 
review, jointly with the Association, the report referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objective thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the 
said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  21
20
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Beneficiary” means a Civil Society Organization (as hereinafter defined) which 
meets the criteria specified in Section I.D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and 
the Project Procedures Manual (as hereinafter defined), and to which or for 
whose benefit a Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined) is made or proposed to 
be made for the carrying out of a Subproject (as hereinafter defined). 
3. 
“Civil Society Organization” means an entity established and operating pursuant 
to the Recipient’s laws, including rural or urban communities, grassroots 
organizations, religious and cultural organizations, professional and non-
professional associations, private enterprises, non-governmental organizations, 
and community-based associations involved in HIV / AIDS control. 
4. 
“Communal AIDS Control Committee” (
Comité Communal de Lutte contre le 
SIDA
)
means any of the 
Recipient’s entities within one of its Communes (as 
hereinafter defined), established and operating pursuant to its Decree 
 
No. 100/015 of February 4, 2002, under the supervisory authority of the National 
AIDS Control Council, and which are charged with implementation of AIDS 
activities at Commune (as hereinafter defined) level. 
5. “Commune” 
(
Commune
)
means an administrative area of the 
 
Recipient, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 
1/16 of 
 
April 20,
 
2005,
representing a designated area and population within the territory 
of the Recipient.  
6. “Community” 
(
Colline
)
means an administrative area of the 
 
Recipient in a Commune, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 1/16 
of April 20,
 
2005, representing a designated area and population within the 
territory of the Recipient. 
7. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised on October 1, 2006.  
Page  22
21
8. 
“Executive Committee” means the executive body of the National AIDS Control 
Council, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 100/096 of November 4, 2004, which is charged with Program management. 
9. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
10. 
“HIV / AIDS” means Human Immunodeficiency Virus / Acquired 
Immunodeficiency Virus. 
11. 
“Ministry of Public Health and AIDS Control” means the ministry of the 
Recipient at the time responsible for public health and AIDS control. 
12. 
“Ministry of Public Health and AIDS Control Procedures Manual” means the 
Recipient’s manual, referred to in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, agreed 
with the Association and outlining implementation, organizational, 
administrative, monitoring and evaluation, environmental and social monitoring 
and mitigation, financial management, disbursement, and procurement 
arrangements for purposes of implementation of the activities of the Ministry of 
Public Health and AIDS Control, as the same may be amended from time to time 
with the prior written concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any 
schedules to said Manual. 
13. 
“National AIDS Control Council” (
Conseil National de Lutte contre le SIDA
)
means the Recipient’s entity, including all its branches at Commune and 
Province level, established and operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree 
No. 100/096 of November 4, 2004, as amended to the date of this Agreement, 
under the supervisory authority of the Recipient’s Presidency, and which is 
charged with the provision of general Program orientation and oversight of 
Program implementation. 
14. 
“National Waste Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan, dated 
November 2007, agreed with the Association and setting out the measures to be 
taken for the development and implementation of medical waste management 
and safe handling of said waste in the course of Project implementation, as the 
same may be modified from time to time with the prior written concurrence of 
the Association, and such term includes any schedules to said Plan. 
Page  23
22
15. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental expenses incurred by the National 
AIDS Control Council and the Recipient’s ministry at the time responsible for 
health, based on the annual budgets referred to in Section V.D of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement as approved by the Association, on account of Project 
implementation, management, and monitoring and evaluation, including for 
utilities and supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, 
maintenance, and insurance, office space rental, building and equipment 
maintenance, advertising and communication expenses, travel and supervision, 
and salaries of contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, 
honoraria, and bonuses of members of the Recipient’s civil service. 
16. 
“Permanent Executive Secretariat” means the administrative and technical body 
of the National AIDS Control Council, established and operating pursuant to the 
Recipient’s Decree No. 100/096 of November 4, 2004, and which is charged with 
Program coordination. 
17. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised on 
October 1, 2006. 
18. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated April 3, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
19. 
“Program” means the Recipient’s Strategic National Plan for HIV / AIDS 
Control 2007-11 referred to in its Decree No. 100/144 of April 20, 2007. 
20. 
“Project Procedures Manual” means the Recipient’s manual, referred to 
in Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement, agreed with the Association and outlining 
implementation, organizational, administrative, monitoring and evaluation, 
environmental and social monitoring and mitigation, financial management, 
disbursement, and procurement arrangements for purposes of implementation of 
the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time with the prior written 
concurrence of the Association, and such term includes any schedules to said 
Manual. 
21. 
“Project Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in Section 2.07 of 
the General Conditions, granted by the Association to the Recipient pursuant  
to the letter agreement signed on behalf of the Association 
 
on January 3, 2008 and on behalf of the Recipient on January 16, 2008.  
Page  24
23
22. 
“Province” (
Province
)
means an administrative area of the Recipient, established 
pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 1/010 of March 18, 2005, representing  
a
designated area and population within the territory of the Recipient. 
23. 
“Provincial AIDS Control Committee” (
Comité Provincial de Lutte contre le 
SIDA
)
means any of the
 Recipient’s entities within one of its Provinces, 
established and operating pursuant to its Decree No. 100/015 of 
February 4, 2002, under the supervisory authority of the National AIDS Control 
Council, and which are charged with implementation of AIDS activities at 
Province level. 
24. 
“Subproject” means a specific activity carried out by a Beneficiary under 
Part 1 (a), 2 (c), or 3 of the Project, financed or proposed to be financed through a 
Subproject Grant (as hereinafter defined). 
25. 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made to finance  
a
Subproject. 
26. 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Recipient, 
represented by the National AIDS Control Council, and a Beneficiary, setting 
forth the terms and conditions under which proceeds of the Financing shall be 
made available to the Beneficiary for the purpose of financing Subprojects. 
27. 
“Training” means the training of persons involved in Project-supported activities, 
based on the annual budgets referred to in Section V.D of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement as approved by the Association, such term including seminars, 
workshops, and study tours, and costs associated with such activity include travel 
and subsistence costs for training participants, costs associated with securing the 
services of trainers, rental of training facilities, preparation and reproduction of 
training materials, and other costs directly related to course preparation and 
implementation. 
__________
 
