Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 19539
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP II)
(Cr. 2199-KE)
June 29, 1999
Rural Development Operations 1
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
At Appraisal US$1.0 = KSh22.50
KShl.0 = US$0.044
At Completion US$1.0 = KSh6O
KShl.0 = US$.017
FISCAL YEARS
Government of Kenya = July 1- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC         Agricultural Information Center of the Ministry of Agriculture
ASAL        Arid and Semi Arid Lands
ASAO I      First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASAO II    Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASIP        Agricultural Sector Investment Program
ASMP I      First Agricultural Sector Management Project
ASMP II    Second Agricultural Sector Management Project
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association of the World Bank
IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural Development
FAO         Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FES         Frontline Extension Staff
FSC         Fanner Service Center
FTC         Farmer Training Center
GOK         Government of Kenya
KARI        Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
MALDM       Ministry of Agriculture Livestock Development and Marketing
MOA         Ministry of Agriculture
MOLD        Ministry of Livestock Development
MOU         Memorandum of Understanding
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MRTT        Ministry of Research, Training, and Technology
MTR         Mid Term Review
NARP I      First National Agricultural Research Project
NARP II    Second National Agricultural Research Project
NEP I       First National Agricultural Extension Project
NEP II      Second National Agricultural Extension Project
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
OED         Operations Evaluation Departnent of the World Bank
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SMS         Subject Matter Specialist
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
T&V         Training and Visit
UNOPS       United Nations Office for Project Services
Vice President                Mr. Callisto E. Madavo
Director                      Mr. Harold E. Wackman
Sector Manager               : Ms. Sushma Ganguly
Team Leader                  : Ms. Christine Cornelius



FOR OFFICAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP 11)
(Cr. 2199-KE)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ...............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................I...
Achievement of Objectives ..................................... iii.
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ...............................................
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES .............................................                                  I..
B. ACHIEVE ENT OF OBJECTIVES .............................................                                           2...
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TIlE PROJECT .............................................                                8
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABELITY .............................................                                              9...
E. BANK PERFORMANCE .............................................                                                    9...
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .............................................                                               10.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME .............................................                                              10.
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS .............................................                                                  12..
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED .............................................                                                12..
PART II STATISTICAL TABLES ..............................................Ai..
APPENDICES:                   A. MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
B. GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
C. PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
D. MAP
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP II)
(Cr. 2199 KE)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second National Agricultural
Extension Project (NEP II) in Kenya, for which IDA Credit 2199-KE in the amount of SDR 17.4
million (US$ 24.9 million equivalent) was approved on December 20, 1990, and became
effective on December 27, 1991.
The Mid-term review took place in August 1994. The Credit was closed on June 30, 1998,
three months after the original closing date of March 31, 1998. An amount of US$3.67 million
was cancelled on April 2, 1998, and a further cancellation of US$ 4.64 million was made at the
time of project closure. An additional US$6.0 million of parallel financing was provided by
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) through three IFAD projects with
supervision contracted to United Nations Office for Projects (IJNOPS). In 1996, IFAD
reallocated US$9.37 million from these projects to a new loan for NEP II and IDA assumed
responsibility for supervision of IFAD's new loan. The new IFAD loan was closed as planned on
March 31, 1998, at which time the disbursements amounted to only US$ 715,000 (8% of the
revised IFAD loan).
This ICR was prepared by a mission' from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program on
behalf of the Africa Rural Development Operations 1 of the World Bank. Preparation of the ICR
commenced with the mission's visit to Kenya from December 7 to 18, 1998. This report is based
on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, on an unpublished OED
evaluation study, and on discussions with the Bank and Government of Kenya staff associated
with the project. These included staff from the Project Working Group, the group established
under the project to coordinate implementation of the project, and officials of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) and the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute (KARI).
The Government contributed to the preparation of the ICR through formulation of its own
assessment of the project's performance and in discussions on the mission's Aide-Memoire.
' Richard China, mission leader/institutions specialist, and Allan Kelly, economist (consultant)






ii
IMPLEMIENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP II)
(Cr. 2199-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
1.   From 1983 to 1991, IDA supported the agricultural sector in Kenya by providing credits
that focused on policy reform, research, extension, animal health services, smallholder coffee
production, and pilot initiatives in arid and semi-arid lands (see Table 2). The Second National
Agricultural Extension Project (NEP II) quickly followed the first phase extension project.
Project Objectives
2.   The objective of NEP nI was to increase the rate of adoption and stimulate the development
of technical packages that would enable smallholder farmers to increase their productivity and
incomes. To this end, NEP II was expected to: (a) consolidate and fortify institutional gains
made under the first phase project; (b) increase direct contact with farmers; (c) improve the
relevance of extension information and technologies for farmers; (d) upgrade the agricultural
skills of staff and farmers; and (e) introduce innovations into the extension system on a pilot
basis. These objectives were to be achieved through four main components: organization and
management of extension services; extension methodology; staff training; and research-extension
linkages.
3.   The rationale and objectives for NEP II were clear. NEP I had introduced the Training and
Visit (T&V) system of extension in 30 out of 41 districts, and impact on food crop production,
mainly maize, was reportedly positive with high adoption rates of simple technologies such as
improved plant spacing, planting time, varieties, and use of basal fertilizer dressings. NEP II was
expected to address organizational deficiencies identified in the first phase project, such as lack
of unified extension and weak monitoring, and expand coverage of an improved T&V system
nation-wide. NEP II was intended to support Government's objective of rapid and sustainable
growth in the agricultural sector and IDA's Country Assistance Strategy of promoting the growth
and equitable distribution of incomes. The design of NEP II also anticipated complementary
policy reforms and actions supported by other IDA projects that would facilitate agricultural
technology adoption and growth.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
4.   NEP II became effective on December 27, 1991. By the Mid-term review in August 1994,
only 25 percent of IDA funds had been disbursed. Due to late submission of audit reports, the
IDA and IFAD Credits were suspended from May to November 1996, further delaying progress.
To some extent, implementation progress improved following the appointment of a Project
Coordinator in March 1997. The IDA Credit was closed on June 30, 1998, compared to the
original closing date of March 31, 1998.



iii
Achievement of Objectives
5.   The project's immediate objectives were partially achieved. Integration of the staff from
the agriculture, livestock, and veterinary departments occurred at the field level in that technically
they came under a District Extension Coordinator, and the deployment of frontline extension staff
(PES) was rationalized. However, administratively, and most importantly, financially, FES
continued to be responsible to their line departments. At the central level, this delineation
between departments resulted in separate work plans, reporting, and implementation procedures,
and a lack of unified management. Extension coverage was expanded to all districts and there
were increased linkages with groups of farmers, which increased direct contact. Linkages
improved between research, extension and farmers, and the agricultural skills of staff were
upgraded.
6.   Full achievement of the project's immediate objectives was constrained mainly by
inadequate counterpart funding, the failure to unify management of extension, and by weak
project management. Progress towards strengthening of supervision, monitoring and evaluation,
use of mass media, improved staff mobility, and rehabilitation and improved management of the
Fanner Training Centers were less than satisfactory. The impact of the project on its
development objectives of increased adoption of improved technologies, increased productivity
and rural incomes is not evident: a recent OED Study (see Appendix C) concluded that there are
no significant links between NEP II and technology adoption. At the same time, national
production data indicate that since the early 1990s, production trends for most crops and
livestock products have been relatively stable or in decline. Reasons for this are complex and the
failure to achieve growth in the agriculture sector cannot be attributed only to one project.
Project Costs and Financing
7.   The cost of the project in the SAR was estimated at US$ 47.9 million. IDA's commitment
amounted to US$ 24.9 million for civil works, vehicles and equipment, plus 40 percent of
incremental non-salary operating costs in the first four years and 20 percent thereafter. IFAD
committed US$ 6 million of parallel financing through three IFAD projects, with supervision
contracted to UNOPS. Government's commitment amounted to US$ 17 million. In 1993, IDA
and IFAD increased disbursement to 90 percent of the project's training and non-salary operating
costs. In 1996, IFAD reallocated US $9.4 million from other projects to NEP II and IDA
assumed responsibility for supervision of IFAD's contribution, but when the IFAD loan closed in
March 1998, disbursements amounted to only US$ 715,000 (8% of the revised IFAD loan). At
completion, total IDA disbursements amounted to US$ 16.06 million or 65 percent of target, of
which US $3.7 million was reallocated to drought recovery assistance (See ICR 18090, Kenya
Emergency Drought Recovery Project, Cr. 2460-KE). Therefore, the total IDA disbursement
against extension was only US$ 12.3 million or 50% of target. On the other hand, the cost to
Government just in salaries for extension staff over the life of the project amounted to an
estimated US$ 135 million.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
8.   External factors affecting project implementation included: (a) climatic variability; (b)
adverse movements in commodity and factor prices and currency depreciation (which resulted in
reduced farm enterprise returns); (c) political uncertainty and civil disturbances in 1992/93
(constraining project activity in some districts); and (d) limited access to factor inputs and
markets (mainly due to credit constraints, inadequate supply of quality seed, and poor rural



iv
infrastructure). Internal factors included: (a) fiscal constraints resulting in reduced Government
budget allocations to the project; (b) weak project management and poor inter-departmental co-
ordination affecting central and district level co-ordination, financial management, procurement,
M&E, project reporting and liaison with IDA; and (c) inefficient financial management and
disbursement to the districts. While the farming systems approach to identification of
technologies in response to farmers' priorities was established in districts with regional research
centers, extension continued to focus mostly on delivery of the same simple messages
disseminated under NEP I.
Project Sustainability
9.   NEP n, as designed and implemented, developed and supported an extension system with
more than 6,000 frontline extension staff that is not sustainable given existing and likely future
levels of Government budget support. The existing Government allocation to MOA is used
almost entirely for recurrent salary costs, amounting to about US$ 20 million annually, and will
only allow partial operation of the extension system, and will not be adequate to maintain staff
technical skills, the level of extension services, infrastructure and vehicles that were developed
and supported during NEP II. Significant increases in budget support will be required to sustain
the existing system.
10. From 1996 onwards, the government and the agriculture donor group embarked in the
preparation and appraisal of a comprehensive Agriculture Sector Investment Program (ASIP).
The ASIP preparation identified as a key component a process of rationalization of MOA around
core functions. The public financing of extension services is seen as a core function, however
alternative methods of service delivery, which would provide for more farmer and private sector
participation as well as piloting alternative delivery systems are being considered. The Ministry
has been preparing over the last year a paper outlining alternative approaches to extension service
delivery. In addition, steps have been taken to streamline extension service delivery, after the
close of NEP II, such as the financial unification of livestock and crop extension at all levels of
the Ministry. However, given the delay in implementing the planned ASIP programme,
extension activities have been severely curtailed by inadequate Government budget for
operational costs, underscoring the need for a redesign of the system.
Bank Performance
11. Bank performance is assessed as deficient during preparation and appraisal. The design of
the project was premised on the assumption that NEP I had been successful in inducing
widespread adoption of new technologies and that the extension system supported by the project
was cost effective. This assumption was supported by a World Bank study in 1990 (see
Appendix C). At the same time, the economy was doing quite well, the currency was stable, the
Government appeared committed to liberal economic policies, and there was a cohort of projects
supporting other aspects of agricultural development, which would complement and contribute to
the performance of NEP II. With the benefit of hindsight, however, the Bank's judgement now
appears flawed. The findings of the 1990 study have been questioned by a recent OED study
(see Appendix C). The project design and financing plan over-estimated Govemment's capacity
to finance its contribution to the operating costs of the T&V system and the post-project recurrent
cost liability. In addition, no detailed plans for measuring performance of the program were
made and agreed upon with government. A number of other risks to successful implementation
were inadequately assessed in the SAR including the possible failure of Government to establish



v
unified management of extension, and to satisfactorily implement policy and institutional reforrns
supported by other IDA projects.
12.  Bank perfornance during supervision is rated as deficient, due to a consistent lack of
objectivity as regards the actual impact and likely sustainability of the project. During project
implementation, supervision missions sought to address the key project management and
financing issues affecting project performance but consistently reported unsubstantiated
improvement in the effectiveness of extension at field level and increased adoption of
technologies based on visual field reports. No quantifiable data exists in the supervision record to
back these claims. The objectivity of these field reports is brought into question by the low level
of IDA and IFAD disbursement, the unsatisfactory outcomes for two of the project's four
components (organization and management of the extension system and extension methodology),
and the findings of the recent OED study. Progress on development objectives was rated
satisfactory by Bank missions, from inception to the final mission report. The extension
approach adopted in NEP II is relatively high cost, involving face to face FES-farmer group
contact. Other lower cost extension methods were not considered, and may have been more cost
effective for delivering the mostly simple technologies promoted by NEP II. The absence of any
studies assessing extension delivery systems limited the options to improve the cost effectiveness
and sustainability of the extension system in the post-project environment.
Borrower Performance
13. Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. Out of 26 legal covenants listed in Table 10,
Government did not comply with seven, complied partially with eleven, and complied with four
after delay. Government did not comply with its commitment to provide timely and adequate
counterpart funding to NEP II. Project management and coordination were weak and financial
management and disbursement systems were inefficient. Poor Government compliance with its
commitments to NEP II delayed implementation of key project activities and reduced the
effectiveness of project inputs.
Project Outcome
14.  There is likelihood that the institutional arrangements supported by the project will not be
financially sustainable with existing and future levels of Government funding. As there has been
only partial achievement of the project's immediate objectives, the project outcome is rated as
unsatisfactory.
FUTURE OPERATIONS AND KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Future Operations
15. Government recognizes that the existing extension system is not sustainable and has
accepted the need for change. Proposals for a multi-donor financed Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP) have been prepared that include: (a) provision for institutional
restructuring and rightsizing; (b) decentralizing planning, implementation and financial
responsibility to the districts; (c) increasing beneficiary/stakeholder involvement in planning; (d)
introducing cost-sharing in some services, and (e) encouraging the private sector to take a more
active role in the delivery of extension and other agricultural support services. Improved donor
coordination, which has resulted from the ASIP process, has helped underscore the need for a



vi
more pluralistic approach to extension service delivery. Although ASIP remains an important
component of agricultural policy in Kenya, its implementation has been delayed pending
completion of the government medium term expenditure review, work on redefining the core
functions of government and further progress on civil service reform. The Bank, now in a low
case scenario with Kenya, awaits government decision on their immediate investment priorities,
while interim activities, in particular related to the restructuring of the Ministry, proceed.
Key Lessons Learned
* When developing extension approaches, existing and likely future funding levels should be
identified to ensure that the approaches are cost-effective, efficient, and fiscally and
technically sustainable.
* In the event that a government has difficulty in meeting its contribution in support of the
designed extension system, staffing and operations should be scaled down in line with the
level of sustainable government funding.
* Given the range and diversity of client needs and requirements, different extension
approaches and delivery systems (public, private, NGO) which respond to these pluralistic
requirements should be considered.
* Decentralization of financial management and work planning to the district levels can
improve the efficiency of project implementation.
a Support for extension is unlikely to yield significant benefits without successful
complementary initiatives to improve access to credit, input and output markets. Moreover, a
weak or ineffective extension service jeopardizes the return on investment in research.
* The active participation of stakeholders is required in the design process to ensure their
ownership, and that beneficiary interests and needs are fully incorporated in the design.
* The design process must incorporate a realistic risk assessment of key policy, institutional,
technical, socio-economic, and financial (factor and product markets) aspects that may
influence project outcomes, and develop and monitor mitigating strategies to control such
risks.
* A project management system based on an inter-departmental working group without clear
definition of responsibilities and accountability is unable to provide strong leadership or
effectively co-ordinate and implement project activities.
• Monitoring and evaluation systems including performance indicators should be designed at
the outset of the project to ensure consistency and accuracy in measuring the success of
project activities to achieve the intended objectives.
* The supervision process needs to be reviewed to introduce more analytical rigor, in order to
ensure a more independent and objective assessment of project performance. Judgments
based on unsubstantiated improvement in the effectiveness of extension at field level and
increased adoption of technologies based on visual field reports can lead to a disconnect
between project ratings and outcome.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP II)
(Cr. 2199-KE)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.   The objective of NEP II was to increase the rate of adoption and stimulate the development
of technical packages that would enable smallholder farmers to increase their productivity and
incomes. To this end, the project was expected to consolidate and fortify managerial gains made
under the first phase project; increase direct contact with farmers; improve the relevance of
extension information and technologies for farmners; upgrade the agricultural skills of staff and
farmers; and introduce innovations into the extension system on a pilot basis.
2.   These objectives were to be achieved through four main components:
(i)   Organization and management of extension services including provision for
expanding the extension service into six new districts and developing two prototypes
in arid and semi-arid areas; transportation to increase staff mobility and enable them
to work with groups; divisional offices; office, field and training equipment; a
computerized monitoring system on a pilot basis; technical assistance in
procurement, accounting, and auditing; and irnpact assessment, organizational and
staff deployment studies.
(ii)  Extension methodology comprising support for improved use of mass media and
better communications; rehabilitation and furnishing of Farmer Training Centers; and
establishment of two Farmer Service Centers on a pilot basis.
(iii) Staff training including review of the curricula and operations of agricultural
education institutions; degree training; courses to retrain staff in crop and livestock
production and upgrade staff skills; and regular training sessions and orientation
courses for staff in the newly added districts.
(iv) Research-extension linkages including transport and equipment for research staff to
participate in training sessions, demonstrations and on-farm trials.
3.   The rationale and objectives for NEP II were clear. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) gave
a positive assessment of the first phase extension project. NEP I had introduced the Training and
Visit (T&V) system of extension in 30 of the country's 41 districts, and impact on food crop



2
production, mainly maize, was reportedly positive with high adoption rates of simple
technologies, such as improved plant spacing, planting time, varieties, and use of basal fertilizer.-
Deficiencies identified in NEP I, by both the NEP II SAR (1990) and the NEP I project
completion report (1992), included the separation of the agriculture-related ministries and the
creation of separate extension services for crops, livestock, and agro-forestry resulting in
unnecessary duplication in operations; deterioration in research-extension linkages; increased and
unnecessary hiring of frontline staff by each technical division in the Ministry of Agriculture,
serious neglect of monitoring and evaluation; severe financial and budgetary problems; and
inadequate mobility of extension staff. NEP II was expected to address the deficiencies in NEP I,
and expand coverage of an improved T&V system nation-wide.
4.   NEP II supported Government's objective of rapid and sustainable growth in the
agricultural sector primarily through intensification and diversification of coffee, tea, maize,
wheat, milk, meat and horticultural production by smallholders in order to improve food security,
rural incomes, and export earnings. NEP II also supported IDA's Country Assistance Strategy of
promoting the growth and equitable distribution of incomes.
5.   The design of NEP II anticipated complementary policy reforms and actions that would
facilitate agricultural technology adoption and growth, such as market liberalization, thereby
correcting producer incentives; timely and affordable supply of agricultural inputs by both the
public and private sectors; private sector participation in agricultural lending and restructuring of
the development finance institutions, leading to improved access to credit; and improved access
to input and output markets through road development.
6.   The timing of NEP II synchronized with other IDA supported projects such as the Second
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation (policy reform), the Agricultural Sector Management
Project (technical assistance, training, and technology for policy making in relevant sector
ministries), the National Agricultural Research Project, the Animal Health Services Project,
Smallholder Coffee II, and the Rural Services Project (arid and semi-arid land pilots). Other
donor financed projects supported agricultural communications, district-based integrated rural
development, farm management planning, livestock development, and soil and water
conservation.
B. ACSHEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Overview
7.   The project became effective on December 27, 1991. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
and the Ministry of Livestock Development (MOLD) were merged in January 1993 and became
the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock Development and Marketing (MALDM), which was later
renamed, simply, the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The Mid-term review (MTR) was carried
out in August 1994, at which point only 25 percent of IDA funds had been disbursed (reasons for
delayed implementation given below). Government agreed with IDA and IFAD on a time-bound
action plan. But progress in implementing the plan was slow. Due to late submission of audit
reports, the IDA and IFAD Credits were suspended from May to November 1996, further
delaying progress and operational effectiveness. Implementation progress improved following



3
the appointment of a Project Coordinator in March 1997. The IDA Credit was closed on June 30,
1998, compared with the original closing date of March 31, 1998.
Component 1: Organization and Management of Extension Systems
8.  Implementation of project activities under this component was generally less than
satisfactory and did not achieve planned outputs in tenns of strengthened organizational
structures, improved integrated extension management, and functional monitoring and evaluation
systems. Key factors that impacted on these activities were lack ofpolitical commitment to
restructuring and to theformation of a unified extension system; lower than planned budget
support and delayedfund disbursement due to inefficientfinancial management; and lack of
management supervision and monitoring offield staff
9.   Extension System Expansion. As planned, extension systems were expanded into six
additional districts. Project coverage included all of the country's 41 districts, which later
became 64 districts as a result of sub-division.
1 0. Arid and Semi-Arid Land (ASAL) Pilots. The ASAL pilots were delayed and started in
Isiolo and West Pokot Districts in 1994. A unified extension approach was adopted in the two
districts and reportedly worked well. A serious constraint to effective extension delivery and
adoption was the lack of FES mobility. To improve extension support services, pastoralists were
trained as para-extension agents. KARI regional research centers did not provide any support to
the work in these two districts, partly due to lack of appropriate improved technologies.
11. MOA and MOLD Cooperation. At project start, an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
and a subsidiary Working Group responsible for day-to-day project implementation were
established. The Working Group also included a KARI representative to facilitate development
of research-extension linkages. The Steering Commnittee operated until the MOA and MOLD
merged in 1993. Thereafter, the Working Group became the key project management body. The
structure of the Working Group involving the Agriculture, Livestock Development and later the
Veterinary Departments, combined with a lack of clearly defined accountability and
responsibility for project implementation, and the absence of strong commitment to an integrated
approach, resulted in project management having insufficient authority and poor inter-
departmental co-ordination during most of the project period. Integration of the staff from the
three departments did occur to some degree at the field level. While technically the FES were
under the District Extension Coordinator, administratively and financially they were still
responsible to their line department. At central level, this delineation between the departments
resulted in separate work plans, reporting and implementation procedures, and a lack of unified
management. District co-ordination, district and divisional management, and supervision and
monitoring of staff was less than satisfactory, being undertaken at approximately 40 percent of
the planned level.
12. Integrated Extension System Infrastructure. Rehabilitation and replacement of
divisional offices, combined with the provision of office furniture and equipment improved the
physical infrastructure of the extension service at the local level. While some delays occurred
with the civil works, 71 of the planned 100 prefabricated offices were established. Vehicle,
motorcycle and bicycle procurement was delayed due to poor planning, and a requirement to



4
assess needs based on the large number of MOA vehicles which were non-operational due to
inadequate funding for repairs. In 1993, approximately 50 percent of vehicles were in this
category, and their repair was given priority. A total of 115 vehicles and 140 motorcycles was
procured.
13. Farmer Extension Group Activities. Compared with NEP I, the T&V system under NEP
II was implemented with a stronger focus on group activities, on-farm trials, demonstrations and
field days. The findings of an OED survey of 576 farm households in seven districts (Gautam
unpublished, 1998 - see Appendix C), indicated that the meeting frequency was less than the
planned fortnightly period, with the largest group of surveyed farmers indicating five meetings
per year, 10 percent indicating monthly meetings, and only 3 percent fortnightly meetings.
14. Over the project period, FES contact with farmer groups, involvement in on-farm
demonstrations and field days was undertaken at 48, 46 and 61 percent respectively of the
planned level of each activity. Annual budget allocations and the extent of disbursement to the
district influenced both the within-year and between-year levels of activity.
15.  The focus of FES activities during the project remained mostly on staple food crops (maize,
peas, beans, vegetables) and livestock. The FES focused on the delivery of simple
agronomic/technology messages. The NEP II design outlined increased development of new
technologies as a project output. Over the project period, the OED Survey indicated little
development of new technologies other than the introduction of new crop varieties.
16.  The increased focus on group activities resulted in the FES working with large numbers of
existing rural women's groups operating saving schemes. While this improved extension contact
with women, the project did not undertake activities to identify the specific needs of women and
women-headedfarm households, or develop strategies to address those needs. Only a small
percentage of FES are female.
17. Monitoring of Extension. Effective monitoring and evaluation (M&E) to support project
management and assessment was a key feature of the NEP 1I design. However, the planned
M&E systems were not established. By 1996, with support from the IDA-financed Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO) and Agricultural Sector Management Project (ASMP),
separate M&E units had been established in the Departments of Agriculture and Livestock
Production, but the systems used different software and were not compatible. Neither of the
systems was used to support NEP II project management and reporting. M&E appears to have
been a low MOA priority in NEP n1. This is also indicated in the MOA semi-annual reports
submitted to IDA. The reports did not include quantitative information on physical progress,
activity achievement (planned and actual) and procurement. Some of these data were presented
to headquarters by the district offices but were not integrated into NEP II project reports until
1997, and then only on the basis of 12 indicators.
18. Impact Assessment Studies were planned in NEP II to provide reliable data on the
effectiveness and efficiency of the-extension system and methods, the technologies extended,
project impact, beneficiary responsiveness, and cost recovery. However, no provision was made
for a baseline study, and MOA and the Ministry of Finance appear to have given low priority to
studies involving assessment of performance and use of external consultants. Target dates were



5
set for a number of the studies and terms of reference prepared, but no work was undertaken
except for one impact evaluation study initiated by MOA in late 1997. Field work and analysis
have been completed, though significant delay has occurred in report preparation. The draft
report was expected in January 1999, and has yet to be finalized.
Component 2: Extension Methodology
19. Implementation of this component was unsatisfactory.
20.  Mass Media and Communications. The British Overseas Development Agency had been
supporting the Agricultural Information Center (AIC) in the Ministry of Agriculture for a number
of years, and was expected to continue this assistance. NEP II provided for: (a) replacement of
some of the equipment in the AIC; (b) for the hiring of consultants to assist in the preparation of
new weekly radio programs and spots, quarterly TV programs (to be reproduced on video for
training), community media, print media, and publicity campaigns; and (c) for a consultant to
assist the AIC in designing a pilot system for FES to record farmers' concerns for feedback to
subject matter specialists and researchers, and for testing it in the districts around one Regional
Research Center. Some audio-visual equipment was procured, mainly for distribution to Farmer
Training Centers. The hiring of various consultants was consolidated under the responsibility of
a single company. Award of the contract was delayed until 1995 but the company folded. Apart
from the production and distribution of2,000 copies of a livestock extension manual, updating of
a crops handbook and an extension manual which are still in progress, no outputs from this
component were achieved. The MTR concluded that use of mass media at thefield level was not
widespread, and no change had been reported by project completion.
21. Farmer Training Centers (FTC). The project provided for rehabilitation and improved
management of three FTCs, and for assessing the rehabilitation costs of the other 24 FTCs. Plans
for rehabilitation of the FTCs were prepared in 1992, however civil works for the three IDA
financed centers have not been completed (10% unfinished). Both the MOA and the Ministry of
Public Works caused delays, in processing the architects' contracts and payments, by lack of
funds, ineffective site supervision, and replacement of one contractor. MOA prepared a proposal
for more autonomous management of FTCs, but it remains largely unimplemented. The MTR
reportedthatthe quality of staffwas low. While 9,300farmers attended residential training
courses (31% of target), and 16,560farmers participated in non-residential courses (46% of
target), FTCs remain largely under-utilized due to budget constraints.
22. Farmer Service Centers (FSC). The project provided for establishment of two FSCs on a
pilot basis. Two sites were identified but no further progress was achieved. In 1994, the MTR
concluded that the need to establish FSCs had been overtaken by liberalization and private sector
engagement in input and output markets. Accordingly, the funds for the FSCs were reallocated to
other activities.
Component 3: Staff Training
23. In general, implementation of this component was satisfactory.
24. Education. The study to review and propose improvements to the curricula and operation
of the agricultural institutions was not carried out. Reasons advanced for non-achievement



6
include the project Working Group's lack of control over the MOA department responsible for
agricultural education institutions.
25.  Study Leave. During the project period, 85 degree and postgraduate courses were
undertaken with almost all participants being staff from the district and divisional level offices.
Participants in short-term fellowships (mostly central level staff) and short courses (more evenly
spread between the central and lower level staff) totaled 469.
26. Retraining of frontline staff to cover both crop and livestock production was largely
carried out, but due to funding constraints took much longer than anticipated in the project
design. One- to two-week courses could not be expected to produce a multipurpose extension
worker. To some degree, this was compensated by the integration of crop and livestock training
in the regular training sessions.
27.  Regular Training of FES was carried out less than planned due to funding constraints.
The funding shortfall forced a shift from fortnightly to monthly training, but even then only 50
percent of the scheduled monthly training sessions were held. Nevertheless, the in-service
training provided the FES with some additional technical skills for crop and livestock extension,
and contributed to unification of field level extension. The district and divisional Subject Matter
Specialists, occasionally with the participation of researchers, conducted training. According to
the MTR, in the early project years the regular training was too theoretical, message driven, and
insufficiently focused on field problems. In later years, supervision missions reported improved
quality of training.
28. Orientation of staff in the six new districts joining the project was not carried out as
planned, as no new staff had been recruited and the existing staff were familiar with T&V.
However, orientation on the project's objectives, scope, and organization was carried out for all
staff.
Component 4: Research-Extension Linkages
29. Implementation of this component was satisfactory. District Farming Systems Teams were
established in the early nineties. Initially, however, KARI participation in training sessions,
demonstrations, and on-farm trials was weak. This was resolved with the signing of a
Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between MOA and the Ministry of Research, Training
and Technology (MRTT), and the payment of six-monthly installments directly to KARI. Over
the life of the project 6,720 on-farm trials were established, 224% of the planned target. While
the joint activities undertaken strengthened research-extension linkages they tended to be
focused in districts with regional research centers, mainly due to inadequate counterpart
funding.
Project Costs and Financing
30. The cost of NEP II in the SAR was estimated at US$47.9 million. IIDA's commitment
amounted to US$ 24.9 million (52%) for civil works, vehicles and equipment, plus 40 percent of
incremental non-salary operating costs in the first four years and 20 percent thereafter. IFAD



7
committed US$ 6 million (12.5%) of parallel financing, in separate districts from IDA, through
three IFAD-supported integrated rural development projects2. Government's incremental
commitment amounted to US$ 17 million, of which US$ 9.3 million was in taxes. In late 1993,
IDA and IFAD increased disbursement to 90 percent of the project's training and non-salary
operating costs.
31. In late 1996, IFAD reallocated US$ 9.4 million from three existing integrated rural
development projects to a new loan for NEP II. Government was not able to provide a detailed
breakdown of the expenditures incurred by the three integrated rural development projects on
agricultural extension-related activities. According to IFAD, when the new IFAD loan for NEP
II closed on March 31, 1998, disbursements amounted to only US$ 715,000, about 8 percent of
target. However, MOA records show expenditure against the IFAD account for the new loan
amounting to US$ 1.3 million. The difference in these amounts is probably due to lack of
submission of invoices for reimbursement.
32. At completion, total IDA disbursements amounted to US$16.06 million or 65 percent of
target, of which US$ 3.7 million was reallocated to drought recovery assistance. Therefore, the
total IDA funds spent on extension was only US$ 12.3 million or 50 percent of target.
Government estimates that salary costs for the extension service supported by NEP II amounted
to US$135 million over 6.5 years.
2 Ministries other than MALDM were responsible for these IFAD supported projects and supervision was
contracted to UNOPS. The new IFAD loan for NEP II was accounted for by MALDM and supervised by IDA
uintil closure of the loan.



8
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
33. Project implementation was affected by a number of key factors that were external and
internal to the project. The factors that influenced activity implementation are surmarized
below.
External Factors:
* Climatic variability with a series of poor seasons (1991 to 1993, 1996 and El Ninio in
1997).
* Policy reforms and market liberalization combined with adverse movements in
commodity and factor prices and currency depreciation reduced farm enterprise returns.
* Political uncertainty and civil disturbances in 1992/93 constrained project activity in
some districts.
* Limited smallholder access to credit for inputs was a key constraint, which limited
the adoption of improved technologies. During the first three project years the supply of
quality seed was also identified as a constraint. Rural infrastructure did not improve
over the project period and limited farmers' access to markets.
I-nternal Factors:
* Fiscal constraints over the project period resulted in reduced Government budget
allocations to Ministries, including MOA.
* Weak project management and poor inter-departnental co-ordination affected central
and district level co-ordination, financial management, procurement, M&E, project
reporting and liaison with IDA.
m Inefficient financial management and disbursement to the districts, and reduced
Government funding constrained project activities. While the disbursement system was
improved during the project, central level financial co-ordination remained weak, and
delays still occurred in release of funds. Timely availability of counterpart funds was
reported only in the last year of the project. Poor financial reporting and delayed audit
reports led to project suspension in 1996.
* Not responsive to beneficiary farmer priorities. While the farming systems approach
to identification of technologies in response to farmers' priorities was adopted at the
beginning of the project, extension continued to focus mostly on delivery of the same
simple messages disseminated under NEP I.



9
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
34. NEP II, as designed and implemented, developed and supported an extension system with
more than 6,000 frontline extension staff that is not sustainable given existing and likely future
levels of Government budget support. The existing Government allocation to MOA for the
extension system is used almost entirelyfor recurrent salary costs, amounting to about US$ 20
million annually. This will result in at best, only a partial operation of the extension system, and
will not be adequate to maintain staff technical skills, infrastructure and vehicles that were
developed and supported during NEP II. Very significant increases in budget support will be
required to sustain the existing system.
35. The ASIP preparation process identified as a key component the rationalization of the
ministry around core functions, and the reduction of the percentage of personal emoluments to
total expenditure. The public financing of extension services is seen as an important core
function. However, alternative methods of service delivery, which would provide for more
farmer and private sector participation as well as piloting alternative delivery systems are being
considered. The Ministry prepared over the last year a paper outlining alternative approaches to
extension service delivery. In addition, steps have been taken to streamline extension service
delivery after the close of NEP II, such as the financial unification of livestock and crop extension
at all levels of the Ministry. However, given the delay in implementing the planned ASIP
programme, extension activities have been severely curtailed by inadequate Government budget
for operational costs, underscoring the need for a redesign of the system.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
36. Bank performance is assessed as deficient during preparation and appraisal. The design of
the project was premised on the assumption that NEP I had been successful in inducing
widespread adoption of new technologies and that the extension system supported by the project
was cost effective. This assumption was supported by a World Bank study in 1990 (see
Appendix C). At the same time, the economy was doing quite well, the currency was stable, the
Government appeared committed to liberal economic policies, and there was a cohort of projects
supporting other aspects of agricultural development, which would complement and contribute to
the performance of NEP II. With the benefit of hindsight, however, the Bank's judgement now
appears flawed. The findings of the 1990 study have been questioned by a recent OED study (see
Appendix C). The project design and financing plan over-estimated Government's capacity to
finance its contribution to the operating costs of the T&V system and the post-project recurrent
cost liability. In addition, no detailed plans for measuring performance of the program were
made and agreed upon with government. A number of other risks to successful implementation
were inadequately assessed in the SAR including the possible failure of Government to establish
unified management of extension, and to satisfactorily implement policy and institutional reforms
supported by other IDA projects.
37. Bank performance during supervision is rated as deficient, due to a consistent lack of
objectivity as regards the actual impact and likely sustainability of the project. During project
implementation, supervision missions sought to address the key project management and



10
financing issues affecting project performance but consistently reported unsubstantiated
improvement in the effectiveness of extension at field level and increased adoption of
technologies based on visual field reports. No quantifiable data exists in the supervision record to
back these claims. The objectivity of these field reports is brought into question by the low level
of IDA and IFAD disbursement, the unsatisfactory outcomes for two of the project's four
components (organization and management of the extension system and extension methodology),
and the findings of the recent OED study. Progress on development objectives was rated
satisfactory by Bank missions, from inception to the final mission report. The extension
approach adopted in NEP II is relatively high cost, involving face to face FES-farmer group
contact. Other lower cost extension methods were not considered, and may have been more cost
effective for delivering the mostly simple technologies promoted by NEP II. The absence of any-
studies assessing extension delivery systems limited the options to improve the cost effectiveness
and sustainability of the extension system in the post-project environment.
38. From 1992 to 1998, there were nine supervision missions including the Mid-term review
(1 994). The supervision missions sought to address the key project management and financing
issues affecting project performance by taking these up with Government. The Bank also readily
agreed early in the project to increase its allocation to non-salary operating and training costs.
Despite the serious management and financing problems, the supervision missions consistently
rated the impact on development objectives as satisfactory, and reported unsubstantiated
improvement in the effectiveness of extension at field level and increased adoption of
technologies. The objectivity of these field reports is brought into question by the low level of
IDA and IFAD disbursement, the unsatisfactory outcomes for two of the project's four
components, and the findings of the recent OED Study (see para.4 1 and Appendix C).
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
39. Borrower performance was unsatisfactory. Out of 26 legal covenants listed in Table 10,
Government did not comply with seven, complied partially with eleven, and complied with four
after delay. Govermment did not comply with its commitment to provide timely and adequate
counterpart funding to NEP II. Project management and coordination were weak and this
weakness impacted on activities at all levels of the project. Financial management and
disbursement systems were inefficient, resulting in delays in fund allocation and distribution to
the districts. Poor auditing practices and delayed presentation of audited accounts resulted in
project suspension in 1996. Delayed implementation of key project activities (in organizational
restructuring, in formation and operation of an effective unified extension system, and in
establishing monitoring and evaluation systems) reduced the effectiveness of project inputs.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40. The key assumption underlying NEP II was that increased investment in agricultural
extension, and in particular the T&V system, would increase awareness and adoption of improved
technologies and practices, and that this adoption would result in improved on-farm productivity.
Two farm household surveys conducted by the World Bank assessed the impact of the T&V



11
extension system under NEP I and NEP II: the Africa Technical Department (ATD) Study in
1990 (ATD Series No.208 by Bindlish & Evenson, 1993), and the Operations Evaluation
Department (OED) Study in 1997 (publication expected in 1999). These studies were undertaken
at time intervals that almost mirror the end of NEP I in 1991, and the duration of NEP 1I (1991-
98).
41. Technologies. The extension messages focused mostly on simple agronomic practices (see
Appendix C, Table 2 for key messages). While the NEP II design outlined increased
development of new technologies as a project output, over the project period there appeared to be
little development of new technologies other than the introduction of new varieties.
42. Awareness and Adoption. Over the NEP II period there was an increase in awareness and
adoption of a number of technologies that were extended: this is indicated in the IDA supervision
mission reports and in the comparative analysis of the ATD and OED survey findings in the OED
Study. The extent of this awareness and adoption for a number of commodities is detailed in
Appendix C (Tables 1 and 2). The critical issue is the extent to which this increased awareness
and adoption was due to the incremental investment in NEP II, rather than to farmer-to- farmer
spread of existing simple technology messages promoted by previous and other ongoing projects.
The OED statistical analysis indicates that there were no significant linkages between NEP II
extension activities and awareness and adoption of the improved technologies. The significant
variable was the stock of extension knowledge available pre-1982. The only significant period-
specific impact is for the early years of NEP I, which are negative for the adoption of complex
practices. On the basis of the OED analysis, NEP II was not effective in increasing technology
adoption.
43. Agricultural Production and Productivity. During the 1990s, national production trends
for most commodities (crop and livestock) have been relatively stable to negative. Exceptions are
increased production of tea and high value horticulture. The poor production trends reflect the
influence of two key factors: climatic variability and declining farm enterprise returns. Crop
yields for key crops (coffee, sugar, maize, wheat, and sorghum) declined from 1990 to 1995, after
almost two decades of positive growth from 1970 (Nyoro & Jayne, 1998). Reasons given for this
decline are a plateau in fertilizer use due to shortages and price increases, declining soil fertility
and quality of seed. While national agricultural production has remained constant, it is possible
that the efficiency of on-farm factor use and productivity have improved. However, the OED
statistical analysis has indicated that NEP Il had no significant effect on the adoption of
technologies. Further, that few new technologies were developed. The impact of NEP II on
agricultural productivity, therefore, is probably negligible.
44. Given only partial achievement of the project's immediate objectives, the likelihood that
the institutional arrangements supported by the project will not be financially sustainable with
existing and future levels of Government funding, and the recent OED finding that the project did
not increase awareness and adoption of improved technologies, the project outcome is rated
unsatisfactory.



12
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
45. MOA recognizes that the existing extension service is not sustainable and is anxious to
make substantial adjustments through the proposed multi-donor financed Agricultural Sector
Investment Program (ASIP). The ASIP proposals include: (a) provision for restructuring and
rightsizing MALDM; (b) decentralizing planning, implementation and financial responsibility to
the districts; (c) increasing beneficiary/stakeholder involvement in planning; (d) introducing cost
sharing in some services, and (e) encouraging the private sector to take a more active role in the
delivery of extension and other agricultural support services. Improved donor coordination,
which has resulted from the ASIP process has helped underscore the need for a more pluralistic
approach to extension service delivery. Although ASIP remains an important component of
agricultural policy in Kenya, its implementation has been delayed pending completion of the
government medium term expenditure review, work on redefining the core functions of
government and further progress on civil service reform. The Bank, now in a low case scenario
in Kenya, now awaits government decision on their immediate investment priorities, while
interim activities, in particular related to the restructuring of the Ministry, proceed.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
When developing extension approaches, existing and likely future funding levels should be
identified to ensure that the approaches are cost-effective, efficient, and fiscally and
technically sustainable.
* In the event that a government has difficulty in meeting its contribution in support of the
designed extension system, staffmg and operations should be scaled down in line with the
level of sustainable government funding.
* Given the range and diversity of client needs and requirements, different extension
approaches and delivery systems (public, private, NGO) which respond to these pluralistic
requirements should be considered.
- Decentralization of financial management and work planning to the district levels improved
the efficiency of project implementation. Future project/program approaches should develop
institutional arrangements that incorporate effective decentralized decision-making and
planning processes.
* Support for extension is unlikely to yield significant benefits without successful
complementary initiatives to improve access to credit, input and output markets. Moreover,
weak or ineffective extension jeopardizes the return on investrnent in research. The active
participation of stakeholders is required in the design process to ensure their ownership, and
that beneficiary interests and needs are fully incorporated in the design.
* Moreover, the design process must incorporate a realistic risk assessment of key policy,
institutional, technical, socio-economic, and financial (factor and product markets) aspects
that may influence project outcomes.



13
*  The design process must incorporate a realistic risk assessment of key policy, institutional,
technical, socio-economic, and financial (factor and product markets) aspects that may
influence project outcomes, and develop and monitor mitigating strategies to control such
risks.
*  A project management system based on an inter-departmental working group without clear
definition of responsibilities and accountability is unable to provide strong leadership or
effectively co-ordinate and implement project activities.
*  Monitoring and evaluation systems including performance indicators should be designed at
the outset of the project to ensure consistency and accuracy in measuring the success of
project activities to achieve the intended objectives.
*  The supervision process needs to be reviewed to introduce more analytical rigor, in order to
ensure a more independent and objective assessment of project performance. Judgments
based on unsubstantiated improvement in the effectiveness of extension at field level and
increased adoption of technologies based on visual field reports can lead to a disconnect
between project ratings and outcome.



14
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR. 2199-KE)
PART II STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Credit Disbursements: Table Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Inplementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table SB: Project Financing
Table9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Tablel0: Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions



15
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives          Substantial  Partial    Negligible Not Applicable
(V)         (1)         (1)        (V)
Macro policies                      L]                        ]         En5
Sector policies                                F             K]         En]
Financial objectives                K]K                     7]          K]I
Institutional development           K             ]         K]          K]
Physical objectives                             71]         K] 
Poverty reduction                   KK                      En          [I
Gender issues                       KK                     Fn           K]
Other social objectives               ]          I                      E7
Environmental objectives            K]          K]          K]          E7]
Public sector management            K]          K]         [7I          K]C
Private sector development          F]         LI]         En           Li]
Other (specify)                      n           o]        L]o           En
B. Project sustainability             Likely      Unlikely    Uncertain
(1)         (1)         (1)
K]   En    0]
C. Bank performance                   satisfactory  Satisfactory   Deficient
(/)         (1)           (41)
Identification                      K           K]         En
Preparation assistance              K           K]          En
Appraisal                           K]          K]          En
Supervision                         K           K           En



16
D. Borrower performance               satisfactory   Satisfactory Deficient
(1)         (1)         (/1)
Preparation                         E            Ef 
Implementation                       K]         FI]         En
Covenant compliance                 [I          K            E
Operation (if applicable)            K]          gI         En
Higl                                   Hghly
E. Assessment of outcome            satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  unsatisfactory
(K/)       (")         n(/)           ](v



17
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/credit title                     Purpose                                  Year of   Status
approval
Preceding operations
1. National Agricultural Extension   Introduction of T&V system.               1983      Completed
Project (NEP 1) Cr.1387-KE
2. Agriculture Sector Management      TA, training, & improved technology for  1986       Completed
Project (ASMP I) Cr.1718-KE           policy making in sector ministries, & in grain
marketing.
3. Agriculture Sector Assistance      Support to policy reform.                1987       Completed
Operation (ASAO 1) Cr. 1717-KE
4. Animal Health Services Project     Develop framework for effective delivery of   1987  Completed
Cr.1758-KE                            animal health services.
5. National Agricultural Research Project  Technology development for smallholders.    1988  Completed
(NARP I) Cr. 1849-KE
6. Rural Sevices Project Cr.1974-KE   Pilot initiatives in arid/semi-arid lands.  1989    Completed
7. Smallholder Coffee II Cr.2062-KE   Smallholder coffee production for export.  1989     Completed
Following operations
1. ForestryProjectIVCr. 2198-KE       Forestry development, including agro-    1991       Completed
forestry extension.
2. Second Agriculture Sector Assistance   Policy reform: increasing efficiency of maize   1991  Completed
Operation (ASAO II) Cr.2204-KE        marketing, liberalizing fertilizer imports,
distribution and pricing, improving
composition of public expenditure in
agriculture, and initiatives in poverty
reduction and environmental actions.
3. Second Agricultural Sector         Fostering institutional reform in relevant  1993    Completed
Management Project (ASMP ID) Cr.2445   ministries, and in key subsectors of cotton,
KE                                    sugar, oilseeds, co-operatives and
environmental planning, through provision of
TA and training.
4. Drought Recovery Project Cr.2460 KE  Support for drought recovery.          1993       Completed
5. Arid Lands RMP Cr. 2797-KE         Rural services in arid lands.            1995       Ongoing
6. Second National Agricultural       Technology development for smahllholders.    1997   Ongoing
Research Project (NARP II) Cr.2935 KE



18
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle                Date planned       Date actual/latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project     March 15, 1988     March 15, 1988
Summary)
Preparation                           April 1990         April 10, 1990
Appraisal                             June-July 1990     June-July 1990
Negotiations                          November 1990      November 5, 1990
Letter of development policy (if      Not Applicable     Not Applicable
applicable)
Board presentation                    December 20, 1990  December 20, 1990
Signing                               February 21, 1991   Februaiy 21, 1991
Effectiveness                                            December 27, 1991
Midterm Review                        June 1994          August/September 1994
Project Completion                    Sept. 30, 1997     June 30, 1998
Credit Closing                        March 31, 1998     June 30, 1998



19
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY91   FY92  FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97   FY98   FY99
Appraisal Estimate         0.3      1.5     4.0     7.5      14.7    20.0    23.7    24.9    -
Actual                   -       2.08    4.35    5.64    6.75    7.21    12.07   14.16   16.06
Actual as % of Estimate   0%      139%   109%   75%    46%         36%      51%     57%      0%
ate of Final             January 12,
isbursement              1999
Note: The Credit was suspended from May 16, 1996 to November 14, 1996
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project hIplementation
I. Indicatorsbased on SAR            Estimated      Actual    Status
Component 1. Organization and
Management of Extension Services
1.1 Expansion inproject extension system   6        6
coverage to 6 additional districts
1. 2 Prototype extension projects in 2  2           2          Change in the 2 districts. While a delayed start
ASAL areas                                                     occurred, a unified extension approach adopted.
1.3 Co-operation between MOA&MOLD
i) Co-operative agreement & Inter-                             Established and became redundant with
Ministerial Steering Committee                                 merging of Ministries in 1993
ii) Project Working Group                                      Established and operated as key project
management and implementation body
iii) In-service training for staff in other                    Covered under activities in output 3.4
technical areas
iv) Joint regular training on specific                         Covered under activities in output 3.4
extension messages
v) FTC utilized for staff training                             FTC used for farmer training courses
vi) Integrated extension service                               While FES under District Extension
management (at divisional level one staff                      Coordinator, administratively still responsible
responsible for extension service                              to line department
management)
-District Coordinating Committee
meetings                              1000          400        40 % complete
-District supervision visits       3000           1191      40 % complete
-Division supervision visits       36000          15588     43 % complete
1.4 Staff deployment in integrated



20
extension system
i) SMS operating as frontline generalists
ii) improved Iransport, infrastructure and
staff support facilities
-office accommodation              100            71        Equipment also provided (see MALDM ICR)
-vehicles                         Not specified    115
-vehicle rehabilitation/repairs   -               30
-motor cycles                     200             140
-bicycles                         6000            3582
iii) Improved staff contact with women                         FES working with large numbers of existing
farmers                                                        rural women's groups
1.5 Farm extension group activities
i) Group and farmer co-operative                                Group extension activities the key extension
extension                                                      deliveiy method
-fanm demonstrations               45000           27450     61 % complete
-field days                         3000           1380      46 % complete
-farmers reached by FES with regular   8640000     4147200   48 % complete
farmer group activities
ii) Improved access by women to                                Increased access through contact groups, no
agricultural information                                       strategy or specific range of activities
developed to target women's needs.



21
1.6 Monitoring of extension services
i) Strengthened M&E unit at central level                      Not done.
ii) Key monitoring indicators established                      Partial and very inadequate, established in 1997
iii) Information plan-ning requirements                        Not done.
iv) Computer based pilot study                                 Logistical and policy changes not undertaken.
1.7 Impact Assessment Studies                                  Not done. One study on impact assessment
i) Extension message appropriateness                            initiated in late 1997 to be completed.
ii) Technology availability
iii) Staff knowledge and training
iv) Workload distribution
v) FES contact effectiveness
vi) Cost effectiveness
vii) Cost recovery
viii) Sustainability
Component 2. Extension Methodology
2.1 Mass Media and Communications
i) Installation of improved equipment                           Some equipment procured for FTCs.
ii)Preparation of extension programmes                          Limited, only 2000 copies (6000 planned)
and materials (radio, TV, print media)                         produced of a livestock extension manual.
iii) Design and testing diagnostic survey                      Not done.
on farmer responses to new technologies                                           _
2.2 Rehabilitated FTCs
i) Rehabilitation/refurnishing of 3 FTCs   3         3          Only 90% complete by Dec 98 due to
ii) Preparation of FTC autonomous                              institutional, contractual and financial factors.
business plans                                                  Proposal developed largely unimplemented.
iii) Farmer Training                  No not
- No. of residential courses          identified     920        82 % complete
- No.of farmers for residential training             9300       31 % complete
- No.of non-residential courses                      11160      61 % complete
- No.of farmers on non-residential courses           16560     46 % complete
2.3 Operational Farmer Service Centers    2          0          MTR endorsed deletion in line with market
liberalization policy
Component 3. Staff Training
3.1 Review of curricula and operation of                       Not done, as project working group had limited
agricultural education institutions                            links with responsible MALDM department
and Ministry of Education.
3.2 Short-term training and study leave
i) Short-term                         Not identified   469      Participants were spread between central,
ii) Study leave                       Not identified            provincial, divisional and district staff.
-Ph.D.                                               2          Almost all staff undertaking degree and post-
-M.Sc.                                               8          graduate courses were from district and
-B.Sc.                                               75         divisional level offices
3.3 Crop and livestock FES retraining                           Delayed though retraining largely completed
3.4 Regular training of FES
i) Monthly workshops                  3000           1344       45 % complete
ii) Monthly training sessions         18000          9126       51 % complete
3.5 Staff orientation training in 6 new                        Not done as utilized existing staff already
areas                                                          trained in T&V methodology.
Component 4. Research/Extension
Linkages



22
4.1 Strengthened research collaboration                     KARI participation initially weak, resolvud
i) Memo of Undestanding MOA/ MRTT                           with signing of MOU between MOA & MRTT
ii) Joint research/extension activities                     Done, with stronger focus in districts with
iii) Farm focused technology                                regional research centers
development and transfer (on-farm trials)                   224 % of planned
3000          6720
Note: SAR did not detail key monitoring indicators. Above indicators based on project activities
and outputs. A number of the estimates on planned and actual outputs are based on MOA data
provided to the mission.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
I.    Key operating
indicators in SAR/President's
Report                        Estimated                      Actual
Not Applicable                Not Applicable                 Not Applicable
Note: No key indicators for project operation were defined in the SAR or President's Report



23
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study             at appraisal/redefined                Status                    Impact of study
1. Reorganization  To recommend ways in which MOA/    Not financed by NEP II.    Partial, not yet
of MOA/MOLD    MOLD could be streamlined to             MOA/MOLD merged in    implemented
implement improved extension         1993. ASMP 1I financed
methodologies and cost-effective     preparation of proposals
extension services                   for restructuring MOA, and
identifying functions to be
privatized
2. Staff          To discuss deployment of staff within    Not financed by NEP II.    Partial, not yet
deployment        MOA including reallocation of         ASMP II financed          implemented
covering entire   specialist staff such as in home      MALDM staffing norms
MOA/MOLD          economics to the generalist frontline  analysis
extension system    and between MOA and MOLD
3. Retraining     To focus on retraining necessary to   Not financed by NEP II.    Partial, not yet
needs of MOA/    enable staff to effectively cover the  ASMP II financed           implemented
MOLD staff        broader range of subjects             MALDM training needs
assessment
4. Tmpact and     To assess: i) appropriateness of      Not done. One study on    None
eiffectiveness of    extension messages to farmers; ii)  impact assessment initiated
extension system    availabilty of extension messages; iii)   in late 1997 still to be
knowledge and training of extension  completed.
staff; iv) workload distribution among
extension staff; v) effectiveness of
contact between extension staff and
farmers; vi) cost-effectiveness; vii) cost-
recovery measures; viii) sustainability
of extension technologies.
5. Market studies   To be undertaken for each pilot Farmer   Not done. MTR decided    None
Service Center site to determine the  need to establish FSCs had
service and input requirements of the  been overtaken by
geographical area                    liberalization of
miput/output markets
6. Educational    To review curnicula and operation of  Not done.                 None
curricula         agricultural education institutions, and
prepare short and long term solutions to
strengthen these institutions, upgrade
the teaching, and devise curricula and
degree programs preparing students for
tasks expected of them inthe extension
service.



24
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)       Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs                 costs    Costs
Item
Investment Costs
i Civil Works      2.11      0.53       2.64                             4.1
2.Vehicles         3.29      6.11       9.40                             2.7
3.Equipment        1.90      1.59       3.49                             1.7
4.Training         5.05      0.39       5.44                             2.4
5.T. A.            0.51      1.83       2.34                             0.8
6. Emergency       -         -          -                                3.7
Drought Recovery
Assistance
Recurrent Costs
I.Operations &     6.86      3.75       10.61                            9.4 5)
Maintenance (vehicle
/equip./ civil works)
.StaffTravel      3.12      -          3.12
3.Demonstrations    0.27     0.06       0.33
Total Base Costs
Physical Conting.    1.29    0.75       2.04
Pice Conting.      5.51      2.95       8.46
Total Project Costs                     47.86                            24.8
Note:
1) Emergency Drought Recovery Project Assistance of US$3.71 million was re-allocated from
projectfunds to provide assistance to farmers affected by the 1993/94 drought.
2) Project SpecialAccount adjustment of US$ 54,000 is not included in project cost.
3) Totalproject cost (latest estimate) is based on latest estimates of MOA and IDA costs. Total
project cost includes the Emergency Recovery Assistance of US$3.71 million.
4) Thefinancial records did not allowfor an allocation between foreign and local costs.
5) Includes all recurrent costs



25
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)   Actual/latest estimate (US $M)
Local   Foreign  Total      Local   Foreign   Total
costs    Costs              Costs   costs
Source
IDA                       10.5    14.4    24.9                           16.06
IFAD                      2.4      3.6     6.0                           0.72
Domestic contribution     17.0     -        17.0                         8.01
TOTAL                     29.9    18.0    47.9                           24.79
Note:
1) IDA project cost includes reallocation of US$3.71 million to the Emergency Recovery Drought
Assistance in 1993/94, and excludes the Special ProjectAccountAdjustment of US$ 54,000.
2) Initially the IPAD project extension activities were implemented separately and managed by
UNOPS. After July 1996, IFAD activities were integrated under NEP H and IDA supervision,
and the allocation to NEP H was increased to US$9.37 million. It is difficult to assess actual
IFAD disbursements to the project. MALDM indicate that the IFAD contribution since July
1996 is US$1.3 million. According to IFAD when the loan closed on 31 March 1998
disbursements amounted to SDR 510,558 (about US$715,000 or 8% of commitment).



26
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
It is not possible to complete an economic analysis for the project, due to the absence of
any quantitative assessment and evaluation data. Further, no baseline study was undertaken. The
project SAR included a limited economic analysis based on the adoption of two simple
technologies (higher planting population and early planting of maize) that would increase yields
by 26 and 27 % for higher planting and 50 and 35% for early planting respectively for small and
medium sized farm households. It was assumed that the farmers would be new extension
contacts, and that the rate of adoption would be 5, 15, 35, 60 and 65% over five years for the
higher planting population and 5, 15, 35, 60 and 70% for the early planting.
During the NEP II implementation period there was an increase in extension outreach, and in
the awareness and adoption of a number of technologies extended by the project including the two
identified above. The key issue is the extent that the incremental investment in NEP II contributed
to this increased rate of technology adoption. The OED study of agricultural extension in Kenya
(1982-1997) undertaken in 1997 and currently being finalized involved a survey of 596 farm
households. The survey findings support the descriptive analysis that adoption of technologies has
increased, though the statistical analysis of the data indicated that there was no significant link
between NEP II project extension activities and technology adoption over the project period. This
outcome suggests that extension information on the technologies has proceeded through other
informal dissemination channels, such as farmer to farmer. On the basis of the OED finding it is
likely that any project impact on improving agricultural productivity will be low. Further, it means
the assumption underlying the SAR economic analysis, that the project would increase adoption is
no longer valid, and that the without-project situation could result in a similar outcome. Project
effectiveness and impact are discussed in more detail in Appendix C of this report. The OED study
will include an assessment of the impact of NEP Hl on agricultural productivity.



27
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original    Revised
Covenant type  Present   fulfillnent  fulfillment   Description of
Agreem  Section                    status     date        date         covenant                   Comments
ent
DCA    3.01(a)      Execution      CP                                  Commitment to project      Comnplied with
objectives, ... carry out  objectives, but
project with due diligence and failed to provide
efficiency... and provision,   timely and adequate
promptly as needed, funds,   funding
facilities, services and other
resources required
DCA    3.03         Execution      C                                   Procurement according to   Complied with
Schedule 3
DCA    4.01(a)      Financial      CP                                  Maintain adequate records and Complied with
accounts                   partially
DCA    4.01(b)(ii)  Financial      CP                                  Furnish audit report within 9  Complied with
months of end of financial    partially
year
DCA    4.01(b)(iii)  Firacial      C                                   Furnish other information as  Complied with
requested
!DCA    4.01(c)(i)   Financial      NC                                 Maintain satisfactory records  Some vouchers
of SOEs                   reported missing
DCA    4.01(c)(iv)  Financial      CD                                  Separate audit of Special  Compliance after
Account and for expenditures delay
on basis of SOEs
DCA    4.02         Financial      CD        31 March                  Submit to IDA certified copies Compliance after
1992                     of audit reports, for the period delay
from 1 July to 31 Dec 1990
for NEP I
DCA    Schedule 4, Implementation C           1 Jan 1992               Steering Comrnittee        Committee became
Para 1(a)                                                     (comprising MOA, MOLD    redundant with
and KARI) for overall project merger of MOA and
implementation to meet    MOLD in 1993
annually
DCA    Schedule 4  Implernentation CP                                  Working group (MOA,        Not very effective.
Pam 1 (b)                                                     MOLD, KARI) to oversee
MOA/MOLD cooperation and
the project
DCA    Schedule 4, Imnplenentation CD                                  WG to prepare detailed AWPs Compliance after
Para 2                                                        for submission to IDA by I   delay
Jan each year
DCA    Schedule 4, Inplementation  CD        30 June 1994              Mid Term Review            Done August 1994
Para 3
DCA    Schedule 4, Implerentation CP                                   Preparation of satisfactory  Complied with
Pam 4(a)                                                      management and financing    partially, though not
framework for FTCs         opemationalized
DCA    Schedule 4, Implemnentation NC                                  Rehabilitation of three pilot   Rehabilitation of 3
Para 4(b-d)                                                   FTCs, perfonnance evaluation pilot FTCs only
at MTR, and rehabilitation of 90% completed by
remaining FTCs             project close. Other
FTCs not
rehabilitated.



28
Original     Revised
Covenant type  Present   fulfillment    fulfillment date Description of
Agreement      Section                    status    date                        covenant          Comments
DCA            Schedule 4, Implemnentation NC       30 Sep.                     Set up in 2 districts Not complied with
Pama 5                               1992                        automnated
collection and
distribution of
information to
farmers, extension
agents and
researchers
DCA            Schedule 4, Implementation NC        1994/95                     Cost recovery for  Not complied with
Para 6(a)                                                        extension staff
seconded by MOA
to Kenya Tea
Development
Authority to be
implemented
DCA            Schedule 4, Implemnentation NC                                   Preparation/implem Not complied with
Pam 6(b)                                                         entation of charges
to coffee factories
which use services
of MOA coffee
engineers
DCA           Schedule 4, Inplementation  CP        31 Jan. 1994                Reorganization    Partially cornplied
Para 7                                                           study of          with under ASMP II
MOA/MOLD for
more effective
extension
DCA            Schedule 4, Implementation CP        31 Jan. 1994                MOA/MOLD          Partially complied
Pam 8                                                            extension staff   with under ASMP II
redeploymnent study
DCA            Schedule 4, Implementation NC                                    Implement action   Not done
Pama 9                                                           plan achieving
appropriate staffing
levels in
MOA/MOLD; and
raising ratio of non-
salary to salary
operating cost
DCA            Schedule 4, Implementation CP        30Sep. 1991                 Assign adequate    Staff assigned but
Pama 10                                                          staff to          monitoring of
MOA/MOLD         extension
central monitoring  inadequate
units to focus on
monitoring
extension
DCA            Schedule 4, Imnplenentation NC       31 Jan.                     Impact and        Not done
Pam 11                               1994                        effectiveness
studies
DCA            Schedule 4, Implementation  CP                                   MOA/MOLD to    Oct 93, Sep 95,
Para 13                                                          organize semi-    Apr 96, Aug 97,
annual donor     Mar 98
consultation



29
DCA           Schedule 4, Implementation C                                      ASAL prototypes  Two prototypes m
Para 14                                                           involving training  Isiolo and West
of pastoralists as   Pokot. Reasonable
extension agents   progress
and concentrate on
water conservation
and livestock
DCA           Schedule 4, hnplementation  CP                                    Appoint competent FSCs not
Para 15                                                           staff to manage   established, decision
each FTC and FSC. endorsed by MTR.
Operating costs for Most FTCs and
FTCs'             demonstration farms
demonstration     not fully operational
farms to be
recovered from sale
of produce
DCA           Schedule 4, Implermentation  CP                                   Submit six-monthly'Quantitative
Para 16                                                           progress reports on information not
project           provided
implementation
Status:
C - Complied with
CD - Compliance after delay
NC - Not complied with
CP - Complied with partially



30
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title            IDescribe and comment on lack of compliance
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable operational manual statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of project cycle      Planned         Revised         Actual 1/
l__________________________ Weeks  US$   Weeks  US$   Weeks   US$(000)
Preparation to appraisal    NA       NA    NA       NA      95.3     215.6
Appraisal                   NA       NA    NA        NA     48.7      123.1
Negotiations through Board  NA       NA    NA        NA     11.6     32.2
approval
Supervision                 NA       NA                     498.3    896.7
Completion                                                  17.9     48.5
TOTAL                      -          =    -               671.8    1,316.1
1/ Includes travel costs (direct costs).
NA=Not Available-not recorded in the FACT System.



31
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Perfoumance rating
Number                       Specialized        Implementation    Development
Stage of            Month/      of            Days in        staff skills        Statas            objectives      Types of
Project cycle       year        persons        field         represented                                           problems
Through appraisal                                                                N/A               N/A
Appraisal through
Board approval
1. Supervision      Mar, 92     7             31             Ag. Ex. Fi.Li.      S                 S               FAFP
___________    Ma.Pr.Tr.
2. Supervision      Apr, 93     4              25            Ag. Ex. Fi. Pr.     S                 S               FP.SP
3. Supervision      Sep,93      4              11            Ag. Ex. Fi Re.      S                 S               SP
4. Supervision      Aug, 94     9              15            Ag.Co.Ex.Fi.FSR.M   S                 S               FA
____________                   ~~~~~~~o.Pr.R/E._ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
5. Supervision      Aug, 95     5              17            Ag. Ex. Fi. NR.     S                 S               LC.SP
Pr.
6. Supervision      May, 96     4              16            Ex. Fi. NR Pr.      U                 S               FA.FP.LC.
SP
7. Supervision      Feb,97      5              15            Ex. Fi. NR Pr.      U                 S               FA.LC.ME
.OM
8. Supervision      Aug, 97     4              11            Ag. Ex. Fi. Pr.     U                 S               FA.LC.ME
.OM.PM
9. Supervision      Feb,98      6              15            Ag. Di. Ex. Fi. Pr.  S                S               PR
Completion          Dec, 98     2              12            In. Ec.             U                 U
Abbreviations:
Types of Expertise:                                        Types of problems:
Ag. = Agriculturalist
Li.= Livestock                                             FA=Availability of Funds
Di.= Disbursement                                          FP = Financial Performance
Ma.= Management                                            LC = Compliance with Loan Covenants
Ec.= Economist                                             ME = Monitoring and Evaluation
Mo. = Monit. and Eval.                                     OM = Organization & Mgt. of Extension
Ex.   Extension                                            PM = Project Management
NR.= Natural Resources                                     PR = Procurement
Fi. = Finance                                              SP = Studies Progress
Pr. = Procurement
FSR.= Farmiing Systems Research
Re.= Research
In.= Institutions
R/E.= Research/Extension Linkages
Tr. = Training



32
APPENDIX A
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP ID)
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



33
KENYA: Second National Agricultural Extension Project (NEP II)
Implementation Completion Report - Aide Memoire
1.   A mission3 from the FAO Investment Center visited Kenya from 7 to 18 December 1998 to
prepare the lmplementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second National Agricultural Extension
Project (NEP II). The mission met relevant staff from the World Bank, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock Development, and Marketing (MALDM), and the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
(KARI). Field trips were made to Machokos and Meru districts, including visits to Katumani research
station, the district agricultural offices, Kaguru Farmer Training Centre, and meetings with farmers.
2.   The mission would like to record its appreciation for the cooperation and assistance given by all
officers of the Government and the World Bank with whom the mission has been working.
3.   This Aide Memoire presents the mission's preliminary findings, which are subject to
modification following further analysis.
1. A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
4.   The objective of the project was to increase the rate of adoption and stimulate the development
of technical packages that would enable smallholder farmers to increase their productivity and
incomes. To this end, the project would:
a) consolidate and fortify managerial gains made under the first phase project by
i) operating an inter-ministerial frontline extension service
ii) rationalizing the deployment of frontline extension staff (FES)
iii) strengthening supervision, monitoring and evaluation
iv) providing logistical support
b) increase direct contact with farmers through
i) expansion into six new administrative areas, and natural resource conservation
prototypes in two semi-arid areas
ii) greater staff mobility
iii) improved and extensive use of mass media
iv) emphasis on working with groups and farmers' cooperatives
v) quarterly workshops for women's group representatives
c) improve the relevance of technologies and information for farmers by
i) establishing a farming systems approach
ii) working with research to disseminate and further develop technologies suited to
local resource availability and agro-ecological conditions
iii) addressing issues of direct interest to women
3 Richard China, mission leader, institutions specialist (FAO/CP) and Allan Kelly, economist (consultant).



34
d) upgrading the agricultural skills of staff and farmers by
i) holding regular training for staff
ii) providing short residential courses at Farmer Training Centers
iii) improving the curricula at agricultural education institutions
iv) providing for short term and degree training, both domestically and internationally
e) introducing innovations into the extension system on a pilot basis, such as:
i) cost recovery for commodity based extension
ii) systematic information flow between researchers, subject matter specialists,
extension agents and farmers
iii) establishment of Farmer Service Centers.
5.   These objectives were to be achieved through four main components: i) organization and
management of extension services; ii) extension methodology; iii) staff training; and iv) research-
extension linkages.
6.   The project's rationale and objectives were clear and appropriate. The Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) gave a positive assessment of the first phase project (NEP I), which had covered 30 out of the
country's 41 districts. NEP I had succeeded in introducing the Training and Visit (T&V) system of
extension and impact on production was believed to be positive with high adoption rates of simpler
technologies. Problems identified in NEP-I included implementation affected by organizational
changes in the implementing agencies, poor research-extension linkages, as well as procurement and
disbursement difficulties. Monitoring and evaluation had not been carried out systematically.
Government had exceeded staffing estimated as necessary at appraisal, which led to serious funding
difficulties for operational support, thereby placing the sustainability of the service in doubt. IDA
accounting and auditing procedures were not clearly understood by project management. NEP II was
expected to address these organizational deficiencies, and expand coverage of an improved T&V
system nationwide.
7.   NEP II supported the Government's objective of rapid and sustainable growth in the
agricultural sector primarily through smallholders. The Government's strategy emphasized coffee,
tea, maize, wheat, milk, meat, and horticultural crops in order to improve food security, increase rural
incomes, and generate higher export earnings. Given the constraint in agricultural land and on-farm
labor availability, the strategy focused on increasing productivity through intensification and
diversification. The project also supported IDA's Country Assistance Strategy of promoting the
growth and equitable distribution of incomes.
8.   The project's design anticipated complementary policy reforms and actions that would facilitate
technology adoption and growth, such as: market liberalization, thereby correcting producer
incentives; timely and affordable supply of agricultural inputs by both the public and private sectors;
private sector participation in agricultural lending and restructuring of the development finance
institutions leading to improved access to credit; and improved access to input and output markets
through road development. In practice, a combination of agricultural sector policy reforms, market
liberalization and currency depreciation, reduced farmer returns on a number of major food crops.
Access to credit did not improve and poor rural infrastructure continued to limit farmers' access to
input and output markets.
9.   The timing of the project synchronized with other IDA supported projects such as ASAO I and
II (policy reform), and ASMP (technical assistance, training, and technology for policy making in



35
relevant sector ministries), NARP (technology development), the Animal Health Project, Coffee II,
and the Rural Services Design Project (ASAL pilots), as well as other development projects supported
by the EC (livestock), GTZ (farm management planning), IFAD (district-based integrated rural
development), the Netherlands (livestock and dairying), ODA (support to Agricultural Information
Centre), and SIDA (soil and water conservation). The outcomes of the ASAO and ASMP projects in
terms of implementing policy and institutional reforms, however, have been less than satisfactory. As
a result, the policy environment for agricultural growth and the management and efficiency of
MALDM were not conducive to successful implementation of NEP II.
10.  Given that the T&V system had been established under NEP I, improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of extension was not excessively demanding on the implementing agencies. However,
Government's capacity to finance its contribution to the operating costs of the T&V system and the
post-project recurrent cost liability were under-estimated at the design stage.
11.  The assessment of risks to successful implementation of NEP II was not given due weight in
the SAR. It was assumed that establishment of an inter-ministerial steering committee, an inter-
departmental working group and annual work plans agreed to with IDA
would minimize the risk of poor cooperation among the implementing agencies. The failure to
establish unified management of extension has been one of the project's most important constraints.
Other risks inadequately taken into consideration in the project design were Government's financing
capacity and the possible failure or lack of complementary interventions.
2. B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
12.  The supervision reports indicate satisfactory achievement of the project's development
objectives. Based on anecdotal field evidence, supervision missions have consistently reported
adoption of technologies including dry planting, line planting, improved spacing, improved varieties,
increased use of manure, more efficient use of fertilizer, agro-forestry, and improved soil and water
conservation management such as contour planting, terracing, and planting of napier grass to stabilize
terraces and provide fodder, as well as zero-grazing of livestock. Increasing diversification of farming
systems has also been noted, including increased horticulture and integration of livestock. However,
the extent to which these positive outcomes can be attributed to NEP II is unknown. Most of the
technologies adopted were introduced in the seventies and eighties and have been promoted by
various projects and NGOs. Studies of adoption rates and impact that would support the anecdotal
evidence have not been carried out. The MALDM's project completion report maintains that the
project failed to achieve its development objectives in terms of increasing rural incomes. National
production data provided by the MALDM, on the basis of district reports, indicates that since the
early 1990s production trends for most crops and livestock products have been relatively stable to
negative. Given the lack of quantitative evidence, the mission is unable to determine whether the
project has achieved its development objectives.
13.  With respect to the project's specific objectives, most have been partially achieved. A unified
frontline extension service has been established, and the deployment of FES has been rationalized.
Direct contact with farmers has increased through expansion of improved extension to all districts and
increased working with groups. Linkages between research, extension, and farmers have improved,
and the agricultural skills of staff have been upgraded. Full achievement of these objectives has been
constrained mainly by inadequate funding and weak project management. Strengthening of
supervision, monitoring and evaluation, use of mass media, staff mobility, rehabilitation and



36
improved management of the Farmer Training Centers have been less than satisfactory. Cost recovery
for the commodity-based extension has not been introduced.
C. IMPLEMENTATION R-ECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
GENERAL
14.  The project became effective on December 27, 1991. The total cost was estimated at US$47.9
mn. IDA's commitment to the central level and 27 districts amounted to US$24.9 mn (52%) for civil
works, vehicles and equipment, plus 40 percent of incremental non-salary operating costs in the first
four years and 20 percent thereafter. IFAD had committed US$6 mn (12.5%) in separate districts
from IDA. Government's contribution amounted to US$ 17 mn, of which US$9.3 mnn was taxes. At
the outset, project coverage embraced all of the country's 41 districts, which later became 64 districts
as a result of subdivision.
15.  In general, implementation of the project was unsatisfactory. Over the six and a half years of
project implementation, there were at least three changes of Minister, six changes of Permanent
Secretary, and four changes of IDA task manager. Overall project management effectiveness
remained poor including coordination between departments, planning, financial management and
auditing, procurement, and monitoring. Approximately 50 percent of the project's outputs were
achieved.
16.  The project was characterized by a slow start due to political and economic uncertainty between
1991 and 1993, drought in 1992/93, poor Government funding and weak MALDM project
management. The Ministries of Agriculture and Livestock Development were merged in January
1993, which facilitated integration of field level services but did not achieve the same result at higher
levels. In late 1993, to address the problem of inadequate Government funding, IDA and IFAD
increased disbursement to 90 percent of project costs for training and non-salary operating costs. In
effect, IDA's contribution was increased to 77.5 percent of total project costs, and Government's
contribution was reduced to 10 percent.
17.  In 1994, ASMP II began addressing the organization and management aspects affecting NEP II.
While studies were undertaken, little institutional reform has been implemented to date.
18.  The project's Mid Term Review was carried out in August 1994. At this stage only 25 percent
of IDA funds had been disbursed. Govermnent agreed with IDA and WFAD on a time-bound action
plan. But progress in implementing the plan was slow. Due to late submission of audit reports, the
IDA and IFAD credits were suspended from September 1995 to November 1996 further delaying
progress and operational effectiveness. Inadequate and untimely Government funding continued, due
to inflation, decreased revenues and budgetary support, and an apparent change in priorities. To some
extent, implementation progress improved following the appointment of a Project Coordinator in
March 1997.
19.  The IDA credit was closed on 30 June 1998, compared with the original closing date of 31
March 1998. Total IDA disbursements amounted to US$ 15.5 mn or 62 percent of target, of which
US$3.3 mn was reallocated to drought recovery assistance. Government had requested a longer



37
extension, but the Bank had assumed that the multi-donor financed Agricultural Sector Investment
Program (ASIP) would become effective in August 1998.
ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF ExTENSION SERVICES
20.  The component focused on strengthening organizational structures, the supporting physical
infrastructure, improving staff human resource skills with training, improving mobility to increase
capacity to deliver services, strengthening project management and monitoring systems to ensure the
systems and methodologies established were operational and effective. To achieve these outputs
required Government commitment to the project in terms of management support and budget funding.
Over the project period both these factors adversely impacted on project activities and constrained
project effectiveness.
21.  Operational field extension service. At project start an Inter-Ministerial Steering Committee
was established with responsibility for the project. A Working Group consisting of representatives of
the Ministries was responsible for project implementation and reported to the Steering Committee. A
KARI representative was also involved to facilitate the development of the research-extension
linkages. The Steering Committee operated until the two Ministries (MALDM and MOLD) merged in
1993. After this time the Working Group became the key project management and implementing
body.
22.  The structure of the Working Group involving the Agriculture, Livestock Development and
later the Veterinary Departments, combined with a lack of clearly defined roles in terms of
accountability and responsibility for project management and implementation, and the absence of a
strong commitment to an integrated approach, resulted in the project suffering from inadequate
project management and poor inter-departmental coordination over most of the project
implementation. This weakness affected a number of key project management systems, central office
a-nd district field coordination, financial management, procurement planning, monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) systems, and liaison with IDA.
23.  Integration of the field staff from the three departments did occur at the field level. The in-
service training provided the FES with some additional technical skills for crop and livestock
extension, and a unified field extension service did result. The extent and level of the in-service
training was regularly less than planned due to district funding constraints. Over the period of the
project FES numbers decreased, increasing FES per farmer ratios. While technically the FES were
under the District Extension Coordinator administratively they were still responsible to their line
department. At the central level this delineation between the Departments resulted in the preparation
of separate work plans, reporting and implementation procedures, and a lack of unified management.
24.  In March 1997 a Project Coordinator was appointed to manage NEP II implementation, and this
resulted in a marked improvement in project management, financing and disbursement systems. In
mid-1997, the Government approved the restructuring of the MALDM (based on a study initiated
under the ASMP II), though actual restructuring only began after NEP II was closed.
25.  The rehabilitation and replacement of divisional offices, combined with the provision of office
fumiture and equipment improved the physical infrastructure of the service at the local level. While
some delays occurred with the civil works, 71 of the planned 100 prefabricated offices were



38
established. Vehicle, motorcycle and bicycle procurement was delayed due to poor planning, and a
requirement to assess needs based on the large number of vehicles that the MALDM owned whicti
were non-operational due to inadequate funding to repair. In 1993 approximately 50 per cent of
vehicles were in this category, and repair of such vehicles was given priority. Total number of
vehicles procured was 115 and for motorcycles was 140.
26.  During the project period the MALDM operations were affected by Government budget cuts,
and by financial disbursement systems that resulted in delayed funding allocations to the districts.
These difficulties impacted on project activities, in particular on staff mobility as little or no operating
funds were available for vehicles and bicycle allowances. Project management and supervision by
MALDM central office and district staff was identified as generally inadequate over most of the
project period. The lack of funds for operating expenses greatly reduced the level of supervision and
assessment of field extension activities.
27.  Extension farmer contact. The extension approach adopted in the project utilized and further
developed the T&V approach used in NEP I. In NEP II it was implemented with a stronger focus on
group activities and on-farm trials, demonstrations and field days. While fortnightly meetings with
farmer groups were planned, the meetings tended to operate at monthly intervals. Over the period of
the project the standard system involving FES delivery of simple technology messages started to
change with the MALDM  adoption of a farning systems approach, stronger research-extensiorl
linkages, and increasing farmer needs in response to deregulation of markets and prices, and
increasing diversity and intensification of farming enterprises. While the focus of FES activities
remained mostly on staple food crops (maize, peas, beans vegetables) and livestock, the FES
responded to identified farmers needs and facilitated and demonstrated improved technologies and
practices, which farners were able to adopt.
28.  The FES contact with farmers and the number of on-farm trials and demonstrations and field
days was limited by funding constraints over most of the project period. The level of activity between
years varied markedly depending on funds provided, with a significant improvement in the final year
of the project. Over the project period, the MALDM project achievement summary indicates that the
number of field days and demonstrations was 46 to 60 per cent of target, while the number of on-farrm
trials exceeded the target by over 100 per cent. Annual project reporting to IDA did not provide data
on these indicators, until the last year.
29.  The increased focus on group activities resulted in the FES working with large numbers of
existing rural women's groups operating traditional self-help saving schemes. While this improved
extension contact with women, the project did not undertake a range of targeted activities to identify
the specific needs of women and women-headed farm households, or to develop strategies, which
were implemented to address those needs. Only a small percentage of FES are female.
30.  ASAL pilots. Activities to implement the ASAL pilots were delayed and started in Isiolo and
West Pokot Districts in 1994. A unified extension approach was adopted in the two districts and
worked well. A serious constraint to effective extension delivery and adoption was the FES lack of
mobility. To improve extension support services pastoralists were trained as para-extension agents.
KARI regional research centers did not provide any support to the work in these two districts, partly
due to lack of appropriate improved technologies.
31.  Monitoring systems. In NEP I weak monitoring systems were identified as a key constraint,
and this was rectified in the design for NEP II. Effective M&E systems to support project



39
management and assessment were not established for most of the project. Over the duration of the
project M&E systems were planned, consultant TORs prepared, M&E training provided, with
MALDM department M&E units supported and equipped through other IDA funded projects (ASAO
and ASMP). By 1996 two M&E systems were operational in the M&E units established in the
Departments of Agriculture and Livestock Production. The systems were mostly based on the
physical outputs detailed in the district annual reports. The two M&E systems were not compatible as
different software was used. These systems were not utilized to support the project, and it was not
until mid-1997 that a limited monthly monitoring system was operational for NEP II. The system was
based on a number of the outputs that were collected at the district level and presented in annual
reports.
32.  The MALDM semi-annual reports submitted to IDA did not include a quantitative section
detailing project physical progress and activity achievement (planned and actual) or procurement
plans. While some of this data was presented to the MALDM by the district offices it was not
integrated into project documents and reports.
33.  Impact assessment studies were planned in NEP II to provide reliable data on the
effectiveness and efficiency of the extension methods, the technologies extended and the extension
system, project impact, beneficiary responsiveness, and cost recovery. During the project, target dates
were set for a number of the studies and TORs prepared, though no work was initiated. It appears that
such studies involving assessment of performance, and in some cases external consultants were given
a low priority by the MALDM and the Ministry of Finance. In late 1997 NEP II did fund the
MALDM to undertake an impact evaluation study. The study to involve approximately 800 farmers in
9 districts. Field work and analysis has been completed, though some delays have occurred in the
preparation of the report, with the draft now due in January 1999. The MALDM considered that this
study would remove the need to use external consultants.
EXTENSION METHODOLOGY
34.  Project actions under this component have been less than satisfactory.
35. Mass media and communications. The British Overseas Development Agency had been
supporting the Agricultural Information Centre (AIC) in the Ministry of Agriculture for a number of
years, and was expected to continue this assistance. NEP II provided for replacement of some of the
equipment in the AIC; for the hiring of consultants to assist in the preparation of new weekly radio
programs and spots, quarterly TV programs (to be reproduced on video for training), community
media, print media, and publicity campaigns; and for a consultant to assist the AIC in designing a
pilot system for FES to record farmers' concerns for feedback to SMSs and researchers, and for
testing it in the districts around one Regional Research Centre.
36.  Some audio-visual equipment was procured, mainly for distribution to Fanner Training
Centers. The hiring of various consultants was consolidated under the responsibility of a single
company. Award of the contract was delayed until 1995 but the company folded and no outputs were
achieved. Apart from the production and distribution of 2,000 copies of a livestock extension manual,
updating of a crops handbook and an extension manual have not been achieved. Use of mass media at
the field level is not widespread.



40
37. Farmer Training Centers (FTC). The project provided for rehabilitation and improved
management of three FTCs, and for assessing the rehabilitation costs of the other 24 FTCs. While
plans for rehabilitation of the FTCs were prepared in 1992, only 90 percent of the civil works for the
three IDA financed centers has been completed to date. Delays were caused by both the MALDM and
the Ministry of Public Works in processing the architects' contracts and in directing them on the
preparation of documents, slow approval of contractors' contracts and payments, lack of funds,
ineffective site supervision, and replacement of one contractor. MALDM has prepared a proposal for
more autonomous management of FTCs, but it remains largely unimplemented. The quality of staff
is reportedly low. While 9,300 farmers have attended residential training courses (31% of target), and
16,560 have participated in non- residential courses (46% of target), due to budget constraints FTCs
remain largely under-utilized.
38.  Farmer Service Centers (FSC). The project provided for establishment of two FSCs on a pilot
basis. Two sites were identified but no further progress was achieved. The joint Government/donor
Mid-Term Review of NEP II, in August 1994, agreed that the need to establish FTCs had been
overtaken by liberalization and private sector engagement in input and output markets. Accordingly,
the funds for this activity were reallocated to other activities.
STAFF TRAINING
39.  This component focused on maintaining and improving the skill level of extension staff for the
effective dissemination of new technologies to smallholder farmers. In general, implementation of
this component was satisfactory.
40.  Education. The projected study to review and propose improvements to the curricula and
operation of the agricultural institutions was not carried out. Reasons advanced for non-achievement
include the project working group's lack of control over the department in the MALDM responsible
for agricultural education institutions; and degree training involved the Ministry of Education.
41.  Study leave. The project provided for overseas and domestic degree training, and for studies of
short duration. During the project 85 degree and postgraduate courses were undertaken with almost
all participants being staff from district or from divisional level offices. The participants in the short-
term fellowships (were mostly central level staff) and short courses (were more evenly spread
between central level staff and provincial, district and divisional level) totaled 469.
42.  Retraining of front line staff to cover both crop and livestock production was largely carried
out, but due to funding constraints took much longer than anticipated in the project design. One to
two week courses could not be expected to produce a multipurpose extension worker. To some extent,
this was compensated for by the integration of crop and livestock training in the regular training
sessions.
43.  Regular training of FES on a bi-weekly or monthly basis was provided for under the project.
The shortfall in funding forced a shift to monthly training. Around 50 percent of the scheduled
monthly training sessions were held. Training was conducted by the district and divisional SMSs,
occasionally with the participation of researchers. In the early project years the regular training was
reportedly too theoretical, message driven, and insufficiently focused on field problems. In later
years, the quality of training reportedly improved.



41
44.  Orientation of staff in the six new administrative areas joining the project was not carried out-
as planned, as no new staff had been recruited and the existing staff were familiar with T&V.
However, orientation on the projects objectives, scope, and organization was carried out for all staff.
RESEARCH-EXTENSION LINKAGES
45.  This component focused on strengthening collaboration with research by providing funding for
transportation and equipment necessary for research staff to participate in training sessions,
demonstrations, and on-farm trials. Initially KARI participation was weak, this was resolved with the
signing of a MOU between MALDM and the MRTT. The joint activities undertaken strengthened
research-extension linkages though activities did tend to be more focused in districts with regional
research centers. The lack of counterpart funding at times constrained the level of these activities.
Major Factors Affecting the Project
46.  Climatic variability. The project was implemented during a period characterized by a series of
poor seasons, which impacted on farmers' returns, and ability to adopt new technologies and
practices.
47.  Political. During 1992/93 political uncertainty and civil disturbances constrained the
implementation of project activities in some district locations.
48.  Policy. The agricultural policy reforms and market liberalization measures introduced from
1992, and the currency depreciation that occurred over the 1990's reduced farmer returns on a number
of major food crops. In response to these lower retums farmers have adjusted crop inputs and
diversified farm activities where possible. Therefore, while farmers were aware of the new
technologies and practices some were not adopted based on financial returns and farmer resource
constraints.
49.  Access to factor inputs and markets. Smallholder farmer access to credit is a key constraint
and did not improve over the project period. This limited farmer access to inputs (fertilizer, improved
seed and pesticides) and the adoption of improved technologies. Further, during the first three years
of the project the supply of quality seed was identified as a constraint. Rural infrastructure did not
improve over the project period and continued to limit farmers access to markets.
50.  Fiscal constraints and counterpart funding. During the period of the project, Government
budget resources were reduced, this resulted in reduced allocations to line ministries, including
MALDM.
51.  Weak project management systems. Inadequate project management and poor inter-
departmental coordination affected a number of the project management systems, central office and
district field coordination, financial management, procurement planning, the absence of monitoring
and evaluation (M&E) systems, project reporting and liaison with IDA.
52.  Inefficient financial management and disbursement. Both the reduced level of Government
funding and the funding disbursement system to the districts, constrained project activities (farmer



42
contact, on-fann demonstrations and trials, supervision, civil works and procurement) and extension
system effectiveness over the project period. The system used for disbursement of project funds to the
districts was improved during the project, though central level ffnancial coordination remained weak,
and delays still occurred in the issuing of Authorities to Incur Expenditure (AIEs) to the districts. It
was only in the last year of the project that timely availability of AYE counterpart funds was reported.
Poor financial reporting systems and delayed audit reports resulted in project suspension for over a
year (1995-1996).
53.  Beneficiary farmer priorities. Identifying and responding to farmer/client needs and priorities
was not initially undertaken by the FES, though over the period of the project the FES started to adopt
a farming systems approach, and work with farmer groups to identify priorities and develop
technologies and strategies to respond to those needs.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
54.       NEP II as designed and implemented developed and supported an extension approach
and extension system that is not sustainable given existing and likely future levels of Government
budget support. The existing Government allocation to MALDM O&M costs will only allow
partial operation of the extension system, and would not be adequate to maintain staff technical
skills, the level of extension services, infrastructure and vehicles that were developed and
supported during NEP II. Very significant increases in budget support would be required to
sustain the existing system.
55.  While in the Development Credit Agreement IDA agreed to support 40 percent of the operating
cost over the first four years of the project, reducing to 20 percent for the remainder of the project,
and thereby transferring the financial responsibility to the Government, Government fiscal constraints
early in the project resulted in IDA meeting 90 percent of operating and training costs.
56.  The absence of NEP II studies on extension system and delivery cost effectiveness, farmer
responsiveness to extension services, cost recovery options limit the extent to which the MALDM can
identity the most cost effective interventions and approaches to use in the post project finding
environment. Further the absence of such studies limits the usefulness of project lessons for future
policy development.
3. E. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
57.  The extent to which project outputs were effective and efficient in achieving project
development outcomes (improved technology development, dissemination and adoption, increased
productivity and increased farmer incomes) is very difficult/impossible to assess quantitatively as
during the project no monitoring and evaluation systems were established. In the last year of the
project a limited monitoring system was established based on a number of activity outputs. Further
only one of the planned impact studies was initiated. This study was started in late 1997 and is still to
be finalized.
58.  Anecdotal evidence from field missions and discussions with farmers suggest that the
effectiveness of the extension system has increased and that farmers are adopting the new and
improved practices and technologies that were extended. While such adoption may be occurring at the



43
local level, it is not reflected in MALDM national production statistics for the main food crops in
terms of increased yields.
59.  A range of factors are likely to have influenced farmer adoption of technologies such as
climate, factor prices and market returns, access to seed, fertilizer and credit, and risk. Further, during
project implementation, agricultural policy reforms, market liberalization, and currency depreciation
have reduced farmer returns on a number of food crops. Farmers have responded by adjusting crop
inputs where possible, and diversifying farm activities. Therefore, while farmers are aware of the new
technologies and practices they may not be adopted based on financial returns and farmer resource
constraints.
60.  Most of the specific objective outcomes have been partially achieved. Two key factoTs
constraining achievement being lack of counterpart funding and weak project management.
61.  Given the absence of any quantitative evidence to confirm achievement of project development
outcomes, only partial achievement of specific project outcomes, and the likelihood that the
methodologies supported by the project are unlikely to be technically or financially sustainable with
existing and future levels of financial support, the mission considers that at project completion the
project outcome is unsatisfactory.
F. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Positive Lessons
62.  When identifying, supporting and developing extension approaches to service farmer/client
needs, existing and likely future funding support should be identified to ensure that the approaches
supported are cost effective, efficient, financially and technically sustainable. Further, given the
range and diversity of client needs and requirements that different approaches and delivery systems
(public, private, NGO) be assessed to develop demand responsive systems that will be appropriate to
service these pluralistic requirements.
63.  Decentralization of financial management systems to the district level, and increased
participation of district staff and stakeholders in developing district work plans improved the
efficiency of these processes, and had positive outcomes. Future project/program approaches should
develop institutional arrangements that incorporate effective decentralized decision making and
planning processes.
Negative Lessons
64.  Even when improved technologies are available, support for extension is unlikely to yield
significant benefits without complementary initiatives to improve access to credit, input supply and
output markets.
65.  Failure to include provision for a baseline study and to define performance and impact
indicators in the project design and to carry out impact assessments has prevented corroboration of
positive anecdotal evidence on technology adoption and effects. With quantitative impact assessments
indicative of positive benefits, KARI and the MALDM would have had a stronger case for advocating
increased funding by Government and further investment support by donors.



44
66.  The active participation of all key stakeholders is required in the design process to ensure
stakeholder ownership, and that beneficiary interests and needs are fully incorporated in the design.
Further, the design process must incorporate a realistic risk assessment of key policy, institutional,
technical, socio-economic, financial (factor and product markets) aspects that will influence project
outcomes.
67.  A project management system based on an interdepartmental working group that operated
without clear definition of responsibilities and accountability, did not provide the project with strong
leadership nor was it able to effectively coordinate and implement project activities.
Nairobi, 17 December 1998



45
APPENDIX B
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP ID)
GOVERNMENT'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR



46
4. IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT (NEP II)
(CREDITS: 2199KE AND 422KE)
1.0 INRODUCTION
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Agricultural Extension
Project (NEP II) in Kenya for which Loan/Credit No. 2199 KE and 422KE in the amount of
US$30.9million was approved on February 21St, 1991. The NEP II was a follow on phase of NEP
I, both of which have been implemented in Kenya through support of World Bank & IFAD. The
second phase had an aggregate value of US$47.9 million where IDA was to contribute US$24.9,
IFAD US $6.0 and Kenya Government US $17.0 million respectively.
The IDA credit was closed on June 30th, 1998 compared with the original date of March 3 St,
1998 due to a three-month extension. Final disbursement of IDA credit took place on October 31S
1998 at which time a balance of US$ 2.05 million was cancelled. The IFAD credit was closed on
March 3lt 1998. At project design stage it was planned that the Credit from IDA will support
40 districts in high potential areas and implement two pilot prototypes in ASAL areas IFAD
credit would support 10 districts mainly 6 in Coast, 2 in Nyanza, 1 in Western Province and Kieni
division of Nyeri. Supervision for NEP 11 was also to be national in nature for both IDA and
IFAD supported districts.
1.2 The project was negotiated in 1990 when two Ministries were responsible of agriculture. The
IDA and IiFAD credit 2199KE and 422KE were signed on February 21 st, 1991 after
implementation of two pilots in two districts.
2.0 Project Objectives:
2.1 The project objectives of increasing rate of adoption and stimulation of development of
technical packages so that small holders increase their productivity and incomes remained in
effect throughout the project period. The project activities to be supported so that these
objectives are achieved included managing a unified extension, rationalized staff deployment,
strengthen field supervision, internalize M&E in the project, improve mobility of field staff,
technology development, staff and farmer training and support of new initiatives in extension
delivery system.



47
3.0 Implementation Experiences and Results
3.1 There seems to have been a very serious implementation problem associated with NEP II
from the very start. At the design stage it is clear that both the Bank and the borrower over
simplified expenditure procedures involving District Treasuries and flow of vouchers from the
field to Nairobi. The volume of documentation was enormous and expecting all documents to
flow smoothly from the field to HQ was not realistic, as there were no logistic arrangements to
handle this amount work that were put in place.
3.2 Poor financial management at the start affected all project activities. Merchants were not
ready to give services, as their payments were not going through. District staff did not know how
to monitor payment, which went through the Special Account and paid through bank transfers.
Many vouchers got lost in transit. Where IDA payments were effected, the G.O.K. payments
were not immediately paid for the same service or procurement due to cash flow problems. This
resulted in goods not being released for the project by the suppliers on whom orders were placed
because they wanted full payment prior to the delivery of commnodities.
3.3 The project was also affected by irregular cash flow and at times stoppage of expenditure by
Treasury. Project activities and targets set were consequently affected. Treasury guidelines and
ceilings limited annual budgetary provisions although the donor was ready to allocate more funds
in annual estimates. This led to low use of credit facility. Coordinating committees were
established to oversee and manage project implementation. Initially there was no project manager
until the last two years of the project. Although in SAR it had been agreed to internalize M&E in
the project, this was not possible due to organizational arrangements in the Ministry of
Agriculture where each department had it own monitoring unit for all projects. The project at
design did not also provide for baseline surveys, and therefore these baseline surveys were not
conducted.



48
4.0 EVALUATION SUMMARY
4.1 NEP II objective was to increase the rate of adoption and stimulate the development of technical
packages that will enable the small holder farmers to increase their productivity and income. To fulfil this
broad objective the project had to:
a) Consolidate a-nd fortify managerial gains under NEP I by
(i) Operating an inter-ministerial frontline extension service, (ii) rationalizing the deployment of
frontline staff, (iii) strengthening supervision, monitoring and evaluation, (iv) provision of
logistical support and (v) undertaking a number of impact assessment studies to measure
effectiveness of extension service.
(b) Increase direct contact with farmers through
(i) Expansion into new districts in high potential areas and try prototypes in ASAL areas (ii)
increase staff mobility by providing vehicles, motorbikes and bicycles, (iii) improve and
intensify use of mass media, (iv) working with groups and farmer organizations,
(c) Improves the relevance of technology by
(i) Improving research/farmer/extension linkages and (ii) address issues of direct interest to
women,
(d) Upgrade agricultural skills of staff and farmers, and
(e) Introduce pluralism in extension service delivery.
4.2 The stated broad objectives seem to have been adopted from the wrong premise that extension
and new production technologies were the only limiting factors preventing small holder to
increase their productivity and incomes. The borrower now acknowledges that there are many
other factors which must be addressed to motivate small holder adopt new technologies in
agricultural production. It is accepted now that factors such as good agricultural access roads,
organized input supply system, produce and products marketing arrangement, agricultural credit,
development of minor irrigation schemes in ASAL areas rural agro-processing and elaborate
information system must be developed concurrently in all programs supporting primary
agricultural production. The borrower, therefore, recommends Agricultural Sector Investment
Approach arrangement in future programs.
4.3 The IFAD financed districts mainly Kwale, Kilifi District Development Project (KKDDP)
and Farmers' Group Community Support Program (FGCSP) were multi-component and area
based. The implementation arrangement was in line with District Focus Strategy and the project
primary objectives were to strengthen district development institutions.



49
At the project inception it was not realized that the borrower could experience important
organization problems in the ministries given responsibility to implement the project. It is also
worth noting here that this project was spread over the whole country covering many agro-
ecological zones and going through different communities with varying social economic
backgrounds and different capacities to adopt new technologies.
5.0 Achievement of Project Objectives
5.1 There were substantial gains made in most of the operations planned in the SAR which were
to assist in achievement of project objective. The project succeeded in consolidating the
unification of extension service. Most of the frontline extensionists were on job retrained to
impact technologies in both crops and livestock in an integrated manner. The physical
infrastructure was improved with rehabilitation of extension offices both at district and division
centers. Provision of office furniture, equipment, training materials and substantial augmentation
of transport (vehicles, motorbikes and bicycles) to increase mobility for officers and field staff In
service training undertaken during the project period at B.Sc., and M.Sc level for extensionist
managed to create a well-trained cadre of field extensionist and supervisors. Linkages with
researchers, farmers and extensionist were reactivated and strengthened through activities agreed
under the memorandum of understanding between KARI and MOA (see tables 3&7). New
extension packages were developed and also new technologies for different agro-ecological
zones.
5.2 Despite the above gains in operational activities, agricultural sector recorded negative growth
rate of -1.1% (1990/91) to -4.1% (1992/93) and again -4.4% in 1995/96. This growth rate
contrast very badly with achievements of 4.9% of 1985/86. A survey of household poverty done
in 1994 calculated incidents of poverty at 46.8% of the total households. Since most of these
households are in the rural areas, then it implies that within the project period rural source of
incomes were not improving. From the borrower point of view therefore, NEP II may not have or
only achieved marginally some of the original objectives indicated in SAR of increasing incomes
and standard of living for the small holder's farmers. The reason for this scenario is many folds
ranging from weather conditions, policy changes and macro and micro economic changes that
were taking place in the country during project period. Many of the factors were beyond
extension provision and were impacting negatively on agricultural performance, such as effects of
liberalization of cereal, milk, coffee and tea accompanied by removal of price control in farm
inputs. During the period also there was general deterioration of the country infrastructure such as
rural access roads, lack of agricultural credit, markets and escalation of input prices. The
borrower now realized that investing alone in extension would not by any means achieve the
intended objective, as there are other factors outside extension, which must be developed
concurrently to support agricultural production. Reports produced by field staff and adhoc
farmers' satisfaction assessment, indicate that there was increased farmer/extension contact and
significant increase in level of technology awareness particularly in medium and high potential
areas. However adoption rate for these new technologies for increased productivity were being
limited by low returns offered for farm produce and products.



50
6.0 Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
6.1 At the beginning of NEP II implementation, the country was experiencing various macro and
micro economic changes, which had set in with introduction of Structural Adjustment Programs.
The Agricultural sector in particular was going through effects of liberalization which had started
as early as 1987 and various price controls were removed on both agricultural produce and
products and farm inputs. The project implementation was seriously affected by a number of
factors both external and internal. The major ones are mainly three: (a) the poor macro-economic
situation in the country that seriously affected fund supplies to the project, in effect affecting
implementation, (b) serious design deficiencies in the project such as conceiving extension as a
program without relating to measures for removal of other production constraints (rural
infrastructure, credit, marketing input supply); design deficiencies e.g. not assessing the
magnitude of financial and cash transactions involved in implementing a program implemented
country wide right up to the villages, lack of a strong project management arrangement,
combining units of command, authority and accountability and embarking on an ambitious
retraining program to make the frontline extension worker a generalist for unified extension
during the project period; (c)main constraints to irnplementation were several; the initial
arrangement to use proceeds of special account even for expenditure direct from field stations
was logistically not properly evaluated by both the borrower and the Bank as it stalled project
activities for the first three (3) years before the Bank accepted pre-financing at District
Treasuries; omission of baseline and impact assessment surveys during the project period limited
the management with tools for rational decision making; the institutional arrangement for NEP II
implementation was also fairly complex at it involved many agencies (i.e. MOLD, MOA, KARI)
which required very strong collaboration and co-ordination which sometimes was not possible to
get; the implementing agency had to program project activities so that they are in line with
prevailing government financial regulations which changed from time to time and could not
adhere to the DCA; project actives also stalled when the credits was suspended for nearly one
year (September1995 to november1996).
7.0 Project Sustainability
7.1 The project as modeled is not sustainable and the borrower view is to make substantial
adjustment in level of financing, make changes in disbursement, decentralized planning, support
local initiatives gradually introduce cost sharing in some services, involve other stakeholders in
extension services and adopt Sector Approach to address other factors outside extension which
limit technology adoption. Deliberate efforts will also be made to facilitate private sector to take
active role in extension delivery system and other issues such as marketing which are being left
by Government marketing boards such as National Cereals and Produce Board, Kenya Meat
Commission, Uplands Bacon Factory, Cotton Board, Kenya Co-operative Creameries etc.
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives  Substantial (X)  Partial (X)   Negligible   Not applicable (X)
(X)
Macro policies                                                   Xxxxxxx



51
Sector policies                                xxxxx
Financial objectives                          Xxxxxx
Institutional development                     Xxxxxx
Physical objectives             Xxxxxx
Poverty reduction                                           xxx
Gender issues                                  xxxxxx
Other social objectives                                     xxxxxx
Environmental objectives                                   xxxxxx
Public sector management                      Xxxxxx
Private sector development                                   xxxxxx     _
Other (specify)



52
e) Bank Performance
Highly satisfactory      Satisfactory            Deficient
Identification                                     xxxxxxxx_
Preparation assistance                                                    xxxxxxxxD
Appraisal                                           xxxxxxx_
Supervision                                         XxxxxX
f) Borrower Performance
(i)
Highly Satisfactory       Satisfactory
Preparation                                                               xxxxxx
Implementation                                        x
Covenant compliance                                Xxxxxxxx
Operation(if applicable)
g) Assessment of Outcome



53
Unsatisfactory         Highly unsatisfactory
Highly satisfactory    Satisfactory



54
Table 2: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ millions) IDA
1991/92    1992/93    1993/94    1994/95    1995/96    1996/97    1997/98        1998/99
Appraisal         0.3        1.5         4.0        7.5         14.7       20.0        23.7        24.9
estimate
Actual           1.09        3.03       5.55       10.73       15.06       17.35      22.51       22.85
Actual as %      363         202         138        143         102         87          95          92
of esftmate
Date of final    30.6.92   30.6.93     30.6.94     30.6.95    30.6.96     30.6.97    30.6.98
disbursement



55
Table 3: Key indicators for Project Implementation
Key operating indicators in SAR/President's report  Estimate      Actual         Percentage
1.    Monthy workshops                                   3000            1344             45%
2.    Monthly Training Sessions                          18000           9126             51%
3.    District Co-ordinating Committee meetings          1000             400             40%
4.    Farmers Training
a) Residential                                     1000             920             82%
b) No. of farmers for residential courses          30000           9300             31%
c) Non-residential courses                         18000           11160            61%
d) No. of farmers for non-residential courses      36000           16560            46%
5.    Supervision Visits
a) District                                        3000            1191             40%
b) Division                                        36000           15588            43%
6.    Demonstrations                                     45000           27450            61%
7.    Field days                                         3000            1380             46%
8.    On-farm trials                                     3000            6720             224%
9.    Farmers to be reached by FEWs through regular     8640000        4147200            48%
contact-farmer/group visits



56
10   Procurement progress (HSISIUS)
a) Vehicles
b) 4x4 Caravans                                                     70
c) 4x2 P/Ups                                                        39
d) Saloons                                           4               4
e)  Mini Buses                                       1               1
f)  Trucks                                           1               1
g) Motor cycles                                     200             140
h) Bicycles                                        6000            3582
i)  Vehicle Rehabilitation                                          30
j)  Civil Works (FTCs)                               3               3
k) Office Acc.(Prefabs)                                             71
1)  Office Equipment
(i)        Typewriters(                            400              148
(ii)       Fax Machines                             66              45
(iii)      Photocopiers                             66              65
(iv)       Duplicating
(v)        Machines                                  1              40
(vi)       Computers                                66              46
(vii)      Office Furniture                          -           Assorted
m) Staff Trainiing
(i)        PhDs                                      -               2
(ii)       MScs                                      -               8
(iii)      Bscs                                      -              75
(iv)       Fellowships/short
Courses                                        -              469
n) Extension Handbooks                             6000            2000



57
11   Funding AlEs (time)                            ON TIME        US(late)                      t
12   Funding AlEs (adequacy)                        ADEQUATE   US(inadequate)
13   Project expenditure (HS/S/USHUS)               S              US
Table 4: Studies Included in Project
STUDY                  PURPOSE AS DEFINED AT                                 IMPACT OF
APPRAISAL/REDEFINED           STATUS                  STUDY
l.Impact assessment    To measure the impact and     To some extent started in
studies                effectiveness of the extension    the last 2 years of the
system. The studies would     project Some studies
focus on:                     data is still to be
analyzed.
i)     Appropriateness of
messages
ii)    Availability of
technologies
iii)    Knowledge and
training of staff
iv)    Work load distribution
v)     Effectiveness of
contact between
extension agents and
farmers
vi)    Cost effectiveness
vii)    Cost recovery and
viii)   Sustainability
2. Organization of MOA   To recommend ways in which    Done under another    Min. re-
and MOLD               MOA and MOLD can be           MOA project ASMPII.   organization on-
streamlined to implement      Not done under NEP     going
improved extension
technologies and deliver cost
effective extension services.
3. Staff Deployment at   To discuss staff deployment  Not done               N.C.
MOA and MOLD           within MOA organization
including the reallocation of
Ispecialist staff such as in home



58
economics to the generalist
frontline and between MOA and  Partly done under ASMP
MOLD                         II
4. Retraining needs of    To focus on retraining necessary  Done under another  N.C.
MOA and MOLD staff  to enable staff to effectively  MOA project ASMP II -
cover the broader range of   Training needs analysis
subjects
5. Market studies      To be undertaken for each pilot  Recommended not to be  N.C.
FSC site to detennine the    done during the Mid
service and input requirements  term review since the
of the geographical area.    development of Farmer
service centers was
discontinued
6. Educational Curricula  To review the curricula and  Not done             N.C.
operation of agricultural
educational institutions, and to    N.C.
prepare both short term and long
term solutions to strengthen
these institutions, upgrade the
teaching, and devise curricula
and degree programs preparing
students for tasks expected of
them in the extension service.



59
Table 5 Project Costs
Item               Appraisal estimates(US$M)           Actual/latest estimate(US$M)
Local    Foreign      Total        Local costs  Foreign        Total
costs    costs                                   costs
1.Training                                5.6          3.3           0.96         4.27
2. Equipment                              1.2          2.59          0.27          2.86
3. Operating cost                         7.0          10.66         -             10.66
4. Vehicles                               6.5          1.27          0.06          1.33
5. Civil works                            1.7          3.33          0.12          3.45
6. Consultancy                            2.9          0.28          -             0.28
TOTAL                                     24.9         21.44         1.41          22.85
Table 6. Project Financing
Appraisal estimate (US$M)    Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Local    Foreign     Total   Local    Foreign   Total
costs     costs              costs      costs
IBRD/IDA                   10.4      14.5       24.9    21.44      1.41     22.85
Co-financing institutions  2.5      3.5         6.0     1.3       -          1.3
Other external sources          -         -         -        -               -
Domestic contribution 8    17.0                 17.0    8.13      -          8.13
TOTAL                     29.9       18.0       47.9    25.76      1.41     27.17
*    This  excludes  salary  and allowances  for staff  doing  extension
estimated  at US$  135.591M  in  7 years.



60
Table 7. Status of legal covenants
Kenya
National Extension Project (NEP II)
Section    Covenant Present   Original  Revised       Description of Covenant  Comments
Agreemen             Type       Status    fulfillme   fulfillment
t                                         nt date    date
DCA        SAR       10         CD                               The prototype projects to  Changed to
Para 3.05                                             be implemented in      Isiolo and West
Turkana and Wajir      Pokot
would involve the      districts
training of pastoralists to
serve as extension agents
and would focus on
conservation and
development livestock
________ _______                  production and health.
DCA        SAR       9          CP                               MOA and MOLD would  Partially started
Para 3.10                                             assign enough people to   and program
their central monitoring   prepared
units to specifically focus
on monitoring extension
services.
DCA        SAR       9         NC         30th Sep.              The Govermment would   Logistical and
Para 3.                        1992                   set up a system by     policy change
11                                                   /September30, 1992
involving two pilot
districts to use
computerized software
and hardware to collect,
monitor and analyze
critical information
DCA        SAR       9         NC                                Impact assessment       Logistical
Para 3.12                                             studies would be       problem and
completed prior to the    budget
midterm review         limitation
according to terms of
reference acceptable to
IDA.
DCA        SAR       13         CP                               The Government would   Started and is in
Para                                                  prepare a framework for  progress and
3.16,                                                 the management and     will be



61
3.17                                                  financing of FTCs and    continued
would select three FTCs
to be rehabilitated during
the first three years ofthe
project
DCA        SAR       3          C                                The MOA and MOLD        Funds given
Para 3.25                                             will provide sub-AlEs to  directly as
KARI                   cheques
DCA        SAR       5          C                                The Government would   The two
Para 4.01                                             establish an inter-    ministries were
ministerial Steering   merged in
Committee, which would  1992
be responsible for overall
project implementation.
DCA        SAR       5          C                                The Government would   Done
Para 4.01                                             establish a Working
Group reporting to the
Steering Committee to
oversee the
implementation of the
project
DCA        SAR       9          C                                MOA and MOLD            Done
Para 4.01                                             through the Working
Group would provide
reports twice a year on
Project Implementation
DCA        SAR       5          C         January                The working Group shall  The submission
Para 4.02                     each year               prepare detailed annual   was being done
work program and shall  in    June to
furnish them to IDA for   comply with
approval by January 31    GOK financial
of each year           year
DCA        SAR       9          C         30' June               A midterm review of the  Done in August
Para 4.03                     1994                    Project shall be       1994
conducted on or before
June30m 1994.
DCA        SAR       2         NC                                MOA shall implement    Started in 1997.
Para 4.05                                             cost recovery measures   Being
for extension staff    implemented
seconded to KTDA in a
phased manner starting
in 1992/1993 and
achieving full cost
recovery by 1994/1995.
DCA        SAR       2          NC                               MOA shall charge fees   Not done
Para 4.05                                             for the services rendered
by MOA coffee



62
engineers to coffee
factories.
DCA        SAR        12        NC         31st                    A study of the          The study was
Para 4.07                      January                 organization of MOA     done by
1994                   and MOLD shall be        ASMPII
completed by January    Project of the
31, 1994.               MOA
DCA        SAR        11        CP                                 The Government would   -This is on
Para 4.08                                              implement an action     going under
plan, until project     civil service
completion, on achieving  reform program
appropriate staff level in
MOA and MOLD and    -Ministry
raising the ratio of non-   restructuring
salary to salary operating
expenditures.
DCA        SAR        12        C                                  The cooperative         The ministries
Para 4.09                                              arrangement between     merged in 1993
MOA and MOLD would
be implemented at a rate
of about 10 districts per
year, and would be
completed by the time of
the midterm review.
DCA        SAR        5         NC                                 By January, 31 1994, a    It was done
Para 4.16                                              staff deployment study    under ASMP II
would be undertaken     Project
covering the MOA-       of the MOA
MOLD extension          1997
system, while the study
is being completed, new
hiring at MOA and
MOLD would be
consistent with staffng
norms acceptable to
______      ______   ______                             IDA.
DCA        SAR        5         NC                                 A qualified individual,    Cancelled
Para 4,16                                              acceptable to IDA,
would be hired to
manage the mass media
component
DCA        SAR        11        C                                  Adequate provision of    FSC was later
Para                                                   financial and manpower   cancelled
4.17, 418                                              support to rehabilitated
FTCs and pilot FTCs.    FTC on-going
DCA        SAR        9         C                                  MOA and MOLD shall   Done
Para 4.20                                              jointly hold semi-annual
meetings with donors.



63
DCA        SAR       9          c                                That the Project would   IDA & IWAD
Para 5.02                                             be supervised nationally.  did it separately
until     the
last year of
Project
DCA        SAR       10         C                                That consultant would be  Done
Para 5.08                                             hired according to IDA
procedures, with terms of
reference approved by
IDA.
DCA        SAR       5          C         1991/199               That an annual work     Done
Para 4.02                     2                       program has been
prepared for fiscal year
1991/1992 and approved
_______                   ______                 ~~~~~~ ~~by IDA
DCA        SAR       12         C                                Implementation of the    Done between
Para 4.09                                             cooperative agreement    January and
between MOA and        June 1991
MOLD, acceptable to
IDA, on a pilot basis in    The districts
two districts.         were Embu and
Keiyo/Marakwe
t
DCA        SAR       3          CP                               That the Forward Budget  Compiled with
Para 5.02                                             contains adequate      treasury
budgetary requirements   guidelines and
for the Project.       ceilings
DCA        SAR       1          CD                               The submission to IDA    Done
Para 5.15                                             of audited accounts for
NEP I covering the
period up to June 30,
1990.
h) Future Operation
In the future operations at design stage, base line surveys will be done to collect base line data,
which will be used for impact assessment. There will also be end of the project impact
assessment study conducted. Decentralized planning will be adopted so that bottom-up approach
is reinforced. Divisions will become important centers for planning and irnplementation and
more qualified staff will be moved to that level. In built M&E will be incorporated in the project
and monitorable indicators agreed on. Sector approach support will be initiated to address those
factors, which are outside the scope of extension implementing agency. The Bank and other
donors will be requested to support some of the proposed components identified in sector
approach and which have big impact to promoting extension needs (credit, rural access roads,
water, marketing, and women education). Further the future operations for supporting extension



64
would be prepared with close involvement of the communities and other stakeholders. It will
focus on future sustainability by encouraging more pluralism in extension delivery and instituting
partnerships and cost recovery were feasible. Partnership arrangement will enhance transparency
and accountability.
Lessons Learned
a) Positive Lessons
i)    Bank is a good lender and is ready to support viable projects.
ii)    Annual Work plans prepared for the project guided staff on priority areas for expenditure.
iii)   Procurement plans were useful in projecting annual demands over the period.
iv)   Bottom up approach and participatory planning adopted in all IFAD districts were good
gains to be incorporated in future projects.
v)    Potential for new initiatives in extension identified e.g. cost sharing, commercialization,
and extension pluralism.
vi)   Better financial management instituted at later years of the project enhanced project
implementation
vii)   Training support went a long way to promote a strong pool of local capacity.
viii)  Single line management and accountability in extension would improve efficiency and
effectiveness.
b) Negative Lessons
i)    This project missed baseline survey at design stage, which should have collected baseline
data to be used in impact assessment. Performance indicators were not defined to all
implementing agencies at the start of the project.
ii)    A project being implemented by many agencies lacks accountability, loses chain of
command and is hard to co-ordinate.
iii)   Logistics for unified extension were not in place particularly retraining of Frontline
Extension Workers at the start of the project.
iv)    Co-ordinating committees as set in NEP II are not easy to manage and are likely to
disintegrate with time.



65
v)    Bank rules and conditions are too rigid and do not respond quickly to social economic and
political changes of the borrower e.g. request for Bank no objections even for small issue-
that a ministry accounting officer can make a decision on. Credit disbursement seems to
have been tied up with ministry reorganization and restructuring, an issue that lies beyond
the ministry mandate.
vi)   Supervision arrangement for both IDA and IFAD financed districts remained separate and
did not take national outlook as earlier planned.
vii)  It is not advisable for the borrower to rely on donors to support operating and maintenance
cost of the project. The project ends up not being sustainable.



66
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR. 2199 KE)
APPENDIX C
PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT



67
IMIPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2199 KE)
APPENDIX C
PROJECT IM:PACT ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION 68
B. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ASSESSMENT STUDIES   68
AFRICA TECHNICAL DEPARTMENT, WORLD BANK EVALUATION SURVEY (1990)  68
Extension System Delivery  69
Sources of Infonnation 69
Production Impact69
OPERATIONS EVALUATION DEPARTMENT (OED), WORLD BANK EVALUATION STUDY
(1997) 70
Extension System Delivery  70
Sources of Infonnation 73
C. NEP II EFFECTIVENESS AND IMPACT    74
EXTENSION SERVICE ORGANISATION AND MANAGEMENT 74
EXTENSION DELIVERY AND FARMER CONTACT    74
AWARENESS AND ADOPTION OF TECHNOLOGIES   74
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTIVITY 75
PRODUCTIVITY IMPACT   76
TABLES
1. Farmer Awareness and Adoption of Extension Messages in 1999 (ATD Survey)
2. Farmer Awareness and Adoption of Extension Messages in 1990 and 1997 (OED
Survey)



68
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
(Credit No. 2199 KE)
APPENDIX C
PROJECT IMPACT ASSESSMENT
A. INTRODUCTION
1.   The key assumption underlying NEP II was that the increased level of investment
in agricultural extension would increase awareness and adoption of improved
technologies and practices, and that this adoption would result in improved on-farm
productivity. Project impact assessment involves determining the increase in agricultural
productivity that has resulted from the NEP II investment.
2.   The absence of any NEP 11 initiated effectiveness and impact assessment studies,
has increased reliance on the findings of other related studies. Two key studies were
initiated by the World Bank to assess the impact of the T&V extension system introduced
in Kenya under NEP I and NEP 11. These studies are the Africa Technical Department
(ATD) evaluation study in 1990 (see ATD Series No. 208 by Bindlish and Evenson,
1993), and the Operations Evaluation Department study in 1997 (expected to be
published in 1999). These Bank studies are important in that they involved farm
household surveys, and were undertaken at time intervals that almost mirror the end of
NEP I in 1991, and the duration of NEP 1 (1991-98).
B. AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION ASSESSMENT STUDIES
Africa Technical Department, World Bank Evaluation Survey (1990)
3.   The Bank's Africa Technical Department (ATD) in 1990 undertook an evaluation
of T&V extension performance in Kenya. The study involved a survey of 676 farm
households selected randomly from several representative districts. The sampled
households were a sub-set from a 1982 Rural Household Budget Survey. The ATD
survey comprised two sets of questions: the first focusing on production and factors
affecting production at the farm level (the 1981/82 Rural Household Budget Survey had
information on the production characteristics, though not inputs in that year); and the
second set concerning extension service delivery, in which farmers were required to
recall the timing of awareness and adoption in 1981/82. The responses to the latter
questions may be subject to some recall bias. The ATD 1990 survey provides a base for
the pre-NEP 11 project situation.



69
Extension System Delivery
4.   The ATD survey results indicated that farner meetings, staff training and
supervision were less frequent than planned in the NEP I design, and that research-
extension linkages were weak
5.   Awareness of extension messages. The ATD survey identified seven extension
messages that had been extended (four simple messages: plant spacing, planting dates,
improved cultivars, and basal fertiliser applications; and three more complex messages:
top-dressing of fertiliser, plant protection chemicals and stalk borer control, see Table 1).
For the simple messages, mostly targeting maize/food crops, 75 to 80 percent of the
sampled farmers were aware of the technologies. Less than a third of the sampled farmers
were aware of the complex messages.
6.   Adoption. For three of the simple messages adoption rates were 70 to 76 percent.
For basal fertiliser application the adoption rate was 60 percent. For the complex
messages, the level of adoption was much lower, 10 to 11 percent (see Table 1).
7.   Constraints to adoption. Among the surveyed farmers, 40 percent indicated that
capital (access to credit for improved seed, fertiliser and plant protection chemicals) and
labour availability were constraints to adoption.
8.   Thirty percent of the farmers receiving advice wanted more information on correct
time of planting, pest/disease control measures, and soil conservation.
Sources of Information
9.   The source of extension information is important in that extension services can
only contact a certain percentage of farmers. Therefore, farmer-to-farner diffusion, and
factors influencing this diffusion are important in identifying effective extension methods
for different types of extension messages (i.e. simple versus complex technologies).
10. Among the surveyed farmers, 48 percent indicated that they received advice from
frontline extension staff (FES), but only 25 percent indicated that the FES were their
initial source of information. The sampled farmers indicated that for the simple extension
messages other farmers were a key source of initial knowledge, while for complex
messages there was an increased reliance on FES, about the same percentage as for other
farmers. This outcome suggests that there may be a greater role for FES in the diffusion
of more complex technologies.
Production Impact
11. An econometric analysis was undertaken to assess statistically whether the T&V
extension system under NEP 1Lhad contributed to improved farmer technical efficiency
and fanner productivity in terms of increasing farm output.
12. The findings indicated that the effect of T&V on farmer awareness of
recommended practices tended to be weak, though, in part, this may have been due to a
data collection problem. T&V generally had a positive effect on adoption of all



70
recommended practices in particular for three of the four simple messages (spacing,
planting dates, and improved cultivars).
13. In terms of incremental farm output, it was not possible to establish a difference
model based on the changes in the variables from 1981/82 to 1990, though it was possible
to develop two separate models for the two years. The production differences in the two
years were possibly influenced by other factors such as: improved rural infrastructure,
though this did not appear to have changed markedly; improved access to credit, but there
appeared to be no marked change; and the introduction of new technology, however very
little new technology was introduced.
14. The resulting estimated marginal production and the marginal rate of return to
T&V were high, about 350 percent by 1990. This estimate was later adjusted down, due
to the initial analysis involving data errors, to about 100 percent (Bindlish and Evenson,
1997). Bindlish and Evenson (1993) indicated that such high rates of return are likely to
be a one-off as existing productivity gaps are captured by farmer adoption of the simple
improved technologies that are already available though poorly disseminated, and which
markedly increase production. Further, that once these technologies are adopted and the
productivity improvements are achieved, extension programmes/projects are likely to
have sharply declining marginal effects, unless there is access to a stream of new
technologies.
15. Gautam and Anderson reviewed the Bindlish and Evenson econometric analysis
and concluded that the Bindlish and Evenson findings were not valid. The basis for this
conclusion is outlined in Section C.
Operations Evaluation Department (OED), World Bank Evaluation Study (1997)
16.  OED initiated an evaluation study of agricultural extension in Kenya to assess the
impact of NEP I and NEP 11 (1982-1997) on agricultural extension and farm productivity.
A survey was undertaken in 1997. A number of working papers are currently being
finalised.
17. The OED survey involved 596 farm households and included specific questions
concerning production and extension service provision, technology awareness and
adoption. The OED survey used an expanded version of the questionnaire used by the
ATD survey in 1990. The OED surveyed households were in the same population as used
in the ATD 1990 survey. The OED survey questions involved farmers recalling the
timing of technology adoption and awareness, and source of information in 1982, 1990,
and 1997, so the risk existed for some recall bias. Where possible, comparisons to other
studies (ATD, and earlier studies) were made to assess the extent of this problem, with
indications that the magnitude of the recall bias was neither significant nor systematic.
No comparisons were available to check the 1982 data.



71
Extension System Delivery
18. The efficacy of the T&V extension system was assessed in terms of the project
output indicators involving the extent and nature of contact between farmers and the
extension system.
19. Outreach. There had been an increase in the level of direct extension coverage
over the 15 years since the T&V system was introduced, increasing from 50 percent in
1982 to 84 percent of all current farmers. Twenty two percent of farmers indicated first
contact in 1983-90, and 23 percent of farmers first contact over the period after 1990.
This increase in outreach appears to have been directly related to the increase in staff
numbers rather than an increase in staff productivity.
20. There had also been modifications in the pattern of outreach. The statistical
analysis confirms that some of the previous biases against women, younger farmers and
those not living close to rural access roads had been addressed. Other biases in favour of
more educated farmers and high potential zones had increased, as had new biases in
favour of those living close to markets and Nairobi.
21. Extension system efficacy. The quality of the extension contact and outreach is
important in assessing system effectiveness. Over the period of NEP I and NEP II, the
contact farmer approach changed to the contact group approach with lateral transfer of
information to other farmers being important. The OED survey indicates that there had
been low levels of communication between the contact fanners/farmer groups and the
non-contact farmers. This finding is important in terms of how effective the approach is,
though it is difficult to explain given the importance indicated of other farmers as
information sources.
22. Extension contact. The OED survey findings indicate that in terms of the nature
and frequency of the farmer extension meeting that there were limited qualitative or
quantitative improvements in the delivery of extension services. While nine percent of
fanners indicated they were members of contact farner groups, the farmers indicated that
the meetings were not regular, with only 30 percent having met the FES in the previous
month, and the majority meeting less than once every two months. The meeting
regularity was markedly less than planned in the design of NEP II. The meeting venues
were often public meetings or in barazas, and not held on field sites, which may have
reduced effective information exchange.
23. Quality of advice. Despite the irregularity of the meetings, farmers assessed the
advice as useful with the simple extension messages being applicable. In terms of unmet
needs, farmers indicated that advice on more sophisticated topics involving input use (54
percent), pesticide application, and simple/general agronomic practices was required.
24. On other extension methods, farmers indicated high levels of demand and
usefulness of field days, and radio-based extension services. Fifteen percent of farmers
had attended FTC courses and considered them very useful (97 percent of users). During
NEP n1, a unified extension system was established at the field level, and 54 percent of
farmers indicated a preference for such an approach.



72
25.  Technologies. The technologies extended and the extension messages over the
period (1982-1997) focused on basic agronomic practices and were relatively constant.
New technologies usually related to new varieties of maize and other new crop varieties.
The stock of extension messages appeared relatively constant. Thirteen crop production
extension messages were identified for crops most commonly grown in most districts.
Details on these different extension messages are provided in Table 2.
26. A comparison of the 1990 findings of the two surveys (ATD actual data, OED 1990
recall data) in terms of awareness and adoption requires some adjustment as the two
surveys used slightly different specifications for the extension technologies (seven
extension messages versus 13), and the ATD study was more focused on maize/food
crops while the OED study specified a range of crops. Adjusting the survey findings for
maize only allowed a comparison of the two studies and provides an indication of the
level of recall bias. The 1990 recall estimates are close to the 1990 ATD estimates with
two exceptions, for crop varieties and spacing. For crop varieties the difference is large,
44 percent compared to 85 percent respectively, and can only be explained in terms of
differences in survey questions (Gautam unpublished paper, 1998). For crop spacing the
difference is less, 63 percent to 83 percent respectively, with the ATD estimate being
higher than the 1997 estimate of 75 percent, with no easy explanation to explain the
difference.
27. Awareness. Over the period there was an increase in the level of farmer awareness
of the extension messages, with the relative levels of awareness being maintained from
1982 to 1997. The levels of awareness for the different practices are detailed in Table 2.
It is noticeable that the levels of awareness with more complex messages and for non-
maize crops were much lower.
28. Adoption rates for the simpler technologies were higher than for the more complex
technologies (see Table 2). Over all crops the adoption rate was relatively low, though
there was considerable variation between different crops, with maize and non-traditional
crops having higher rates of adoption for the simpler messages than for the more complex
messages.
29.  The factors identified as influencing the non-adoption or discontinuation of
recommended practices were identified as lack of capital, land, labour resource
constraints, with these factors accounting for 40 percent of responses. Another group of
responses (34 percent) related to lack of knowledge, applicability of recommendations,
and traditional beliefs.
30.  Statistical analysis. While the descriptive analysis has indicated awareness and
adoption trends over NEP I and NEP II, statistical analysis was used to identify factors
that were imnportant determinants of the level of awareness or adoption; that is, whether
the investment in government extension has increased the availability of information and
increased the rate of adoption of recommended practices.
31.  The outcome of the statistical analysis (Gautam, unpublished paper, 1998) indicates
that the current supply of extension cannot be associated with an increased probability of



73
awareness for any of the thirteen practices, while the effect of the 1982 supply of
extension is still evident. This outcome suggests that extension information spread has
proceeded at its own pace and that the T&V intervention has not resulted in a positive
impact.
32. Further, being a member of a contact farmer group did not improve the probability
of awareness for complex messages, and with simple messages the effect was also weak.
Such an outcome raises questions as to the efficacy of the contact farmer group approach.
33.  The statistical analysis on adoption fails to indicate a positive influence of
extension activities since 1982. The pre-existing stock of knowledge (pre-NEP I) having
a strong positive influence for every practice, but the subsequent supply not showing any
significant or systematic impact. The only significant period-specific impact is for the
early years of NEP I, which is negative for the adoption of complex practices. Farm
household wealth positively influenced adoption of almost all complex practices. Farm
size had a negative impact on complex practices. While credit constraints were not
significant, it did have a negative sign.
Sources of Information
34. The primary source indicated in the survey over all crops and activities is friends
and family (52 percent) followed by government extension (32 percent). This response is
at variance with the response to an earlier survey question which indicated that 51 percent
of farmers used the government extension system as their primary source of information.
The difference may reflect the nature of the question asked. In response to questions on
individual messages the lower estimate was given.
35. The importance of the source of information varied between the type of information
being sought. For crop varieties the private sector had a role, for spacing
recommendations government extension was the dominant source, and for intermediate
and more complex recommendations (i.e. basal fertiliser types, quantity and chemical
pesticide control measures) the share of information coming form the government sector
increased. The role of the private sector and other information sources also increased for
the more complex practices. In examining the source of information across all three
periods (pre-1982, 1982-1990, after 1990) the results indicate:
* That across all crops and practices government extension increased from the first to
the second period (28 to 37 percent) with a marked increase for maize, for other food
crops and non-traditional crops government extension has progressively increased
from the first to the third period. The share for cash crops has progressively declined.
* In the second period (NEP I) the government share of extension for simple
technology messages increased, particularly for planting time and weeding activities.
For complex messages the share of extension remained almost the same.



74
* The change from the second to the third period (NEP I to NEP II) indicates a marked
increase in government extension as a source of simple messages, while for more
complex messages its share of extension declined.
*  Information system and sources have changed over the periods, with an increased
share and activity from private sector providers.
36.  Farmers' perception is that the availability of information has declined over the
past 15 years, and that the availability of information from government extension does
not appear to have significantly improved relative to other sources.
C. NEP II EFFECTIVENESS AND IMPACT
Extension Service Organisation and Management
37. NEP II was designed to facilitate the development of a better managed extension
service through improved organisational structures, management, supervision and
monitoring of staff performance and work programmes. The effectiveness of project
inputs was reduced by delays in the organisational restructuring and in the formation and
operation of an effective unified extension service, lack of management supervision and
monitoring of field staff, and overall poor project management.
Extension Delivery and Farmer Contact
38. The NEP II design was based on a T&V extension system involving fortnightly
meetings between the FES and farmers. This did not occur. The extension meetings with
farmers were less regular, with the largest group of surveyed farmers indicating five
meetings per year, 10 percent indicating monthly meetings, and only 3 percent fortnightly
meetings. This outcome reflects either a flaw in the project design with a lower level of
contact required given the type of extension messages and farmer demand, or a result of
operating budget constraints at the district level. This situation existed in both NEP I and
II.
39.  The effectiveness of the contact farmer group approach is an issue as the OED
survey findings indicate a low level of contact farmer to non-contact farmer technology
transfer, which is the expected method of extension technology dispersion.
Awareness and Adoption of Technologies
40. Technologies. The extension messages mostly focused on simple agronomic
practices. The key extension messages extended during the project are detailed in Table
2. While the NEP II design outlined increased development of new technologies as a
project output, over the period-of the project there appeared to be little development of
new technologies other than the introduction of new varieties.
41. Further, as the extension system focused on simple technology messages alternative
more cost effective methods for delivery of these messages should have been assessed



75
and utilised, rather than the higher cost FES-farmer face to face extension which is more
appropriate for complex and interactive technology extension messages.
42. Awareness and adoption. Over the period of NEP II there was an increase in
awareness and adoption of a number of technologies that were extended, this is indicated
in the Bank's supervision mission reports, and in the comparative analysis of the two
Bank studies (ATD and OED) and within the OED study. The extent of this awareness
and adoption for a number of commodities is detailed in Table 1 and 2. The critical issue
is the extent to which this increased awareness and adoption is due to the incremental
investment in NEP II, rather than due to farmer-to-farmer dissemination of existing
simple technology messages available from previous projects.
43. The OED statistical analysis indicates that there were no significant linkages
between NEP 11 project extension activities and awareness and adoption of the improved
technologies. The significant variable was the stock of extension knowledge available
pre-1982. The only significant period-specific impact is for the early years of NEP I,
which are negative for the adoption of complex practices. On the basis of the OED
statistical analysis, the project was not effective in increasing technology adoption.
Agricultural Productivity
44. National agricultural production. For most commodities (crop and livestock)
while year to year production was variable, the production trends for the 1990s have been
relatively stable to negative. The exception to this was tea and high value horticulture,
which have increased production. The production trends reflect the influence of several
factors:
- Climatic variability. The 1990's were characterised by a series of poor seasons
(1991 to 1993, 1996 and the impact of El Nino in 1997). The impact of this variability
on production is indicated by maize production over the period, production (in
millions of bags) from 1991 to 1997 was 22, 26, 19, 34, 29, 25 and 22. The area
planted ranging from 1.3 million ha. to 1.5 million ha.
* Declining farm enterprise returns, in response to adverse movements in commodity
and factor prices, currency depreciation and market liberalisation effects. In
particular, maize prices declined in real terms during the 1990s. While factor prices
increased for imported inputs such as fertiliser. The price of various fertilisers rose by
100 to 200 percent from 1991 to 1997.
45. Crop yields for key agricultural crops (coffee, sugar, maize, wheat, and sorghum)
declined over the period 1990 to 1995, after almost two decades of positive growth from
1970 (Nyoro and Jayne, 1998) with reasons given for this decline being a plateau in
fertiliser use, declining soil fertility and quality of seed.
46.  While national agricultural production has remained constant it is possible that on-
farm factor use efficiency and productivity have improved.



76
Productivity Impact
47. The econometric analysis in the ATD study (Bindlish & Evenson, 1997) indicated
that NEP I had a positive impact on agricultural production, with an increased marginal
rate of return greater than 100 per cent. The OED study is examining the impact of NEP I
and II on agricultural productivity. Gautam and Anderson (unpublished, 1998) reviewed
the ATD study methodology and considered the extension variable used in the analysis
masked a number of district-specific production effects. Further, on redefining the
production function to incorporate such changes and using the original database, the
modified extension variables were no longer significant, except for the two districts
closest to Nairobi, Muranga and Machakos. On this basis, while there was a differential
impact across districts, in aggregate there is no discernible impact of the T&V system
that was supported under NEP I on agricultural productivity.
48. The OED statistical analysis has indicated that NEP II was not effective in
achieving the project development objective, in that it had no significant effect on the
adoption of technologies, and that few new technologies were developed. One outcome
of this is the expectation that the potential impact on agricultural productivity will be low.
The OED study will provide a definitive assessment on the impact of NEP II on
agricultural productivity.



77
Table 1: Farmer Awareness and Adoption of Extension Messages in
1990
(based on ATD Survey, 1990)
Extension Messages   Awareness (%) 1990     Adoption (%)
_________________________________1990
Simple:
Plant Spacing                        76               71
Timely Planting                      79               76
Improved Cultivars                   80                74
Basal Dressing                      100               63
Complex:
Borer Control                        33               22
Plant Protection                     22                11
Chemicals                            12                10
Note:
1) The percentage is based on all farmers surveyed in the 1990 ATD
survey.
2) The survey responses focused on maize and other food crops.
3) This data would need to be further disaggregated to analyse any particular crop.
Source: Bindlish and Evenson, 1997



78
Table 2: Farmer Awareness and Adoption of Extension Messages in 1990 and 1997
(based on OED Survey, 1997)
Extension Messages         Awareness All Crops (%)     Adoption All Crops(%)
i990         1997         1990           1997
Crop Variety                 30            55                         45
Planting Time                67            78                         70
Planting Spacing             40            49                         43
Planting Seed Rate           34            39                         35
Weeding Time                 62            69                         65
Weeding Number               61            69                         63
Fertiliser-Basal Type        32            40                         28
Basal Quantity               22            27                         18
Topdress Type                32            39                         23
Topdress Quantity            23            28                         16
Topdress Time                27            33                         20
Plant Protection-Chemical    16            23                         17
Plant Protection-Cultural    14            16                         13
Note:
1) Awareness percentage is based on survey response from all farmers farming prior to that
year.
2) Farmer adoption includes all cuffent and past adopters.
3) The percentages are farmers who have adopted as a percentage of all survey respondents.
4) From the survey data provided in the paper it is not possible to detail 1990 adoption of all
crops.
5) The 1990 estimates are based on farmer recall for that period.
Source: Gautam, unpublished paper, 1998
Sandra Bulls
P:\!UNITS\AFTRI\ADMIN\nep2icr. doc
6/7/99 4:26 PM



A  UN  
N       N~        ~ /     
1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0~      P   J
TL)kAANA                    ~/AA&P 
Mrbit                         -
(                    [~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  T E R ~N
UGANDA~~~~~~~~~~~~~Aoo                                                      IDA
N  0~~~~~~~~I 00*00001
M'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
51.YA                         -Ru~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S*    itblbooore
'C                                              ToDo,ossolooo "                         '0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Y



