ji
Si  I  t   ',     JD.
JrL                                    ,  '1y "      ''-j
3'  7-..'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.m



CURRENCY EQUMVALENTS
Exchange Rate:    USS 1.000          -     KSHs. 22.500
US$ 0.044         -     KSHs.  1.000
SDR 1.000         -     US$    1.433
SDR 0.695         -     US$    1.000
KL  1.000         =     KSHs. 20.000
t As of November 12, 1990.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                     British/US
1 ha                    -                   .47 acres
1 km                    -                  0.62 miles
1 sq. km                =                  0.39 sq. miles
1 kg                    -                  2.2 pounds
1 metric ton            =                  2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIC         -     Agricultural Information Center
ASAL        -    Arid and Semi Arid Lands
ASAO I      -     First Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
ASAO II     -     Second Agricultural Sector Adjustment Operation
BAT         -     British American Tobacco Company Limited
CIF         -     Cost, Insurance, Freight
EAI         -     East African Industries
FAO         -     Food & Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations
FD          -     Forest Department
FESD        -     Forestry Extension Services Department
FSC         -     Farmer Service Center
FTC         -     Farmer Training Center
GDP         -     Gross Domestic Product
ICB         -     International Competitive Bidding
IFAD        -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
KARI        -     Kenya Agricultural Research Institute
KBL         -     Kenya Breweries Limited
KEFRI       -     Kenya Forestry Research Institute
KTDA        -     Kenya Tea Development Authority
LCB         -     Local Competitive Bidding
M&E         -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MENR        -    Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
MOA         -    Ministry of Agriculture
MOF         -     Ministry of Finance
MOLD        -    Ministry of Livestock Development
MRDASAW     -    Ministry of Reclamation and Development of Arid
and Semi-Arid Areas and Wastelands
MRST        -    Ministry of Research, Science, and Technology
NKARP       -     National Agricultural Research Project
NEP I       -     First National Extension Project
NEP II      -     Second National Extension Pro,ect
RRC         -     Regional Research Center
SDR         -     Special Drawing Rights
SOE         -     Statement of Expenditure
SubAIE      -     Sub-Authorization to Incur Expenditures
T&V         -     Training & Visit



MUNA                     FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL IXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .                . . . . . ..    . . . . . . . .i-i
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE ECONOMY  .................
A.  Project Background  . . . . . .                         . . . .      1. 
B.  The Economy . . . . . . . ...... . . . . ........
II.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  . . . . . . ...................... ...    3
A. Main Features ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .   3
B.  Factors Constraining Smallholder Agriculture   .   .   . . . . . . .   4
C.  Agricultural Institutions ....  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......   5
D.  Agricultural Extension  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ..... .    7
E.  Agricultural Technology ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......    9
F.  Government Strategy .. . . . .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
G.  The Bank's Strategy .          .  .  .  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
H.  The First National Extension Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
I.  Donor Activity in Extension .orA.ct.it.i E .t..ens.o.n....          17
!II. THE PROJECT........................... .  18
A.  Project Rationale, Objectives and Main Features ... .       .  .  .    .  18
B.  Detailed Features . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .   .  .  .    .   20
IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION.... .....  .                .  . .  . . . . . . . .  . .  25
A.  Project Management  . . . . . .............. .        .....   .   25
B.  Institutional Strengthening ....  .      .  .  .  .    . . . .  .  .  .  .   .   26
C.  Cooperation between MOA and MOLD .    .    .    . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
D.  Cooperation between Research and Extension .   .   .   . . . . . . .  27
E. Monitoring and Evaluation . . . .    .    . . . . . .   . . .. . .   28
F.  Implementation of New Project Components  ... .      .    .....    .  28
G.  Donor Coordination  . . . . . . .............. .      .....   .   29
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which visited
Kenya in June-July 1990. The mission consisted of G. Mohadjer (Mission
Leader), Z. Matmor, C. Jones, J. Kampen, P. Walker, J. Ndegwa and V. Bindlish.
The following also made contributions to the report: E. Quisumbing, D. Casley
and R. Khanna (Bank); R. Manders and D. Kidd (consultants). K. Baxevanis and
E.W. Mwai provided assistance in document processing. V. Venkatesan was the
Project's Lead Advisor.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . .. .        .  .  .  .  .    . . . .    .  29
A.  Cost Estimates  .. .. ....  .         .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .    .   29
B.  Financing ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .    . . * .. .  .    . ......  .   .   30
C. Procurement.                      ..              .  . . . . . .       31
D.  Disbursement  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ........  .  .    .   33
E.  Special Account ....  .  .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .  .    .   34
F. Accounts and Audit  ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .  .    .   34
VI.  BENEFITS AND RISKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
A.  Benefits  ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   35
B. Risks ...    r.men.h.F.                             .  .    .  .  .  .   .   36
C. Impact on Government Cash Flows.                                       36
D.  Sustainability  ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   36
E.  Environmental Effects ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   37
F.  Impact on Women . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . . .   37
VII.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ... .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   38
Annexes
1.    Project Costs and Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
2. Financial Analysis .49
3.    Government Cash Flows . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
4. Economic Analysis .51
5.    Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
6. Technology . . .                                                            56
7. Memoranda of Understanding .65
8.    Extension Training  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  70
9. Monitoring and Evaluation .75
10. Farmer Service Centers .77
11. Farmer Training Centers .79
12.   Mass Media and Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
13.   National Agricultural Research Project  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86
14.   IFAD Projects                                                            89
15. Project Supervision Plan .91
16. Technical Assistance .95
17.   Documents in the Project Files  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
MAP   IBRD 21659



KENYA
SECOND NATIWRAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Government of Kenya
Beneficiaries:    Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Livestock
Development (MOLD)
Amount:            SDR 17.4 million (US$24.9 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard, with 40 years maturity
Cofinancing:       International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD)
(US$6.0 million equivalent)
Proiect Obiectives: The objective of the proposed project is to increase the
rate of adoption and stimulate the development of technical packages that will
enable smallholder farmers to increase their productivity and incomes. To
this end the project would consolidate and fortify managerial gains made under
the first phase project; increase direct contact with farmers; improve the
relevance of extension information and technologies; upgrade the skills of
staff and farmers; and introduce innovations into the extension system on a
pilot basis.
Project Description: The project would include investments to strengthen the
major components of an extension service.  On organization and management,
funds would be provided for: (i) investments and operational support necessary
to strengthen the extension service, expand it to six new areas, and develop
two prototypes in arid and semi-arid areas; (ii) transportation to increase
staff mobility and enable them to work with groups; (iii) divisional offices;
(iv) office, field and training equipment; (v) a computerized monitoring
system on a pilot basis; (vi) technical assistance in procurement, accounting,
auditing; and (vii) impact assessment, organizational, and staff deployment
studies. On extension methodology, the project would fund: (i) improved use
of mass media and better communications; (ii) rehabilitation and furnishing of
Farmer Training Centers; and (iii) establishment of two Farmer Service Centers
on a pilot basis. On training, the project would support: (i) a review of the
curricula and operations of agricultural educational institutions; (ii) degree
training; (iii) courses to retrain staff in crop and livestock production and
upgrade staff skills; (iv) regular training sessions; and (v) orientation
courses for staff in the newly added districts. On research, funds would be
provided for transportation and equipment for research staff to participate in
training sessions, demonstrations and on-farm trials.
Benefits:    The Projjct focuses on creating a strong and dynamic agricultural
extension system which effectively delivers technical messages tailored to the
needs of smallholder farmers, especially women, and aimed at increasing yield
levels for both staple food crops and export crops. It would thereby raise
rural incomes and employment, and contribute to the national objectives of
self-sufficiency in staple foods and increased export earnings from the
agricultural sector. The Project addresses the needs of Kenya's large
population of women farmers by increasing contact with women's groups,
integrating home economics staff and messages into the extension frontline,
using mass media to reach women directly, and encouraging the development of
appropriate technology. Through the dissemination of new technologies on
fertilizer and plant protection, the Project would contribute to the
development of farming practices which protect agro-ecological systems.



- ii -
Risks: The risk of a breakdown in cooperation between MOA and MOLD would be
reduced through the establishment of a Steering Committee and Working Group,
and binding annual work plans agreed with IDA. The risk of failing to
translate research findings into appropriate technology would be reduced by
institutionalizing research-extension linkages. Serious constraints to
supervision and operations caused by lack of mobility would be addressed
through the provision of appropriate trar,sportation equipment. Expenditure
imbalances would be adjusted through adherence to norms and procedures
established for their review. Progress under the Project would be monitored
through improved monitoring and evaluation of extension services, impact
assessment studies, and a midterm review.
Estimated Project Costs: a/
Local       Foreign      Total
------------USS million-------
Organization and Management of
Extension Services
MOA Extension - Headquarters           0.5          1.3         1.8
MOA Extension - Field Offices          9.0          6.1        15.1
HOLD Extension Services                2.6          1.8         4.4
Monitoring and Evaluation              0.1          0.2         0.3
Extension Methodology
Mass Media and Communications          1.3          1.5         2.8
Farmer Training Centers                4.0          2.6         6.6
Farmer Service Centers                 0.5          0.3         0.8
Staff Training                               4.5          0.4          4.9
Research Extension Linkages                  0.6          0.1          0.7
Total Baseline Costs                        23.1         14.3         37.4
Physical Contingencies                 1.3          0.7         2.0
Price Contingencies                    5.5          3.0         8.5
Total Project Cost                          29.9         18.0         47.9
a/ Inclusive of duties and taxes of US$9.3 M
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Taxes        Total
----------------US$ million-------------
IDA                            10.4         14.5         ----         24.9
IFAD                            2.5          3.5         ----          6.0
Government of Kenya              7.7        ----          9.3         17.0
Total                    20.6         18.0          9.3        47.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year         91   92    93    94    95    96       97   98
--------------- USS million -----------------
Annual                  0.3  1.2   2.5   3.5   7.2   5.3    3.7   1.2
Cumulative              0.3  1.5   4.0   7.5  14.7  20.0   23.7  24.9
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable for extension projects.
Map: IBRD 21659



ENrYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTRNSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. PROJECT BACKGROUND AND THE ECONOMY
A. Proiect Background
1.01         The Project, for which an IDA credit of SDR 17.4m (US$24.9m
equivalent) is proposed, forms the second phase of the World Bank's assistance
to the Government of Kenya for agricultural extension services. It supports
the Government's plans to improve agricultural productivity by improving
agricultural services. The Project was identified as part of the ongoing work
on the First National Extension Project (NEP I; Cr. 1387-KE). A project
proposal was prepared and submitted by the Government to IDA and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) in January 1990. This
Staff Appraisal Report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission which
visited Kenya in June-July 1990.
B. The Econom
1.02         The first decade of independence (1963-73) was one of remarkable
economic and social transformation, with growth averaging 6.5 percent
annually. Rapid agricultural and industrial growth combined with growing
invisible receipts from exports to neighboring countries and tourism, enabled
Kenya to embark on an ambitious public investment program without recourse to
inflationary funding or commercial borrowing. Consequently, Kenya was able to
strengthen considerably its human and physical infrastructure.
1.03         However, the first oil shock brought to the forefront Kenya's
structural constraints. Consequently, growth slowed to 4.5 percent during
1973-80. In addition, population growth continued to rise, reaching 3.8
percent by the end of the 1970s. Economic growth decelerated further to 2.4
percent during 1980-85, with the Government attempting to stabilize the
economy in the face of political uncertainty in 1982 and the severe drought of
1984-85. The need for stabilization arose from the erosion of the fiscal base
after the coffee boom of the late 1970s and the subsequent fall in the terms
of trade, and the second oil shock of 1979. In 1982 the Government
implemented a major devaluation and adopted a flexible exchange rate policy.
By the mid-1980s, the Government succeeded in stabilizing the economy.
1.04         The economic stability achieved during the mid-1980s was
severely eroded in 1985-87 due to continued weaknesses in public finance and
complacency induced by a mini coffee boom in 1986. Public expenditures
increased to almost one-third of GDP by FY86 and the budget deficit peaked at
7.6 percent of GDP in FY87. Money supply grew rapidly in 1986 leading to a
resurgence of inflation. During the past three years, the Government has
implemented a series of sector reform programs which have contributed
significantly to a marked economic recovery. During 1986-88, GDP and private
fixed investment have averaged real growth of 5.1 percent and 7.3 percent
respectively. As a result, there has been a small but steady increase in per



- 2 -
capita incomes. Nevertheless, although the Government has reduced the current
account and budget deficits and its reliance on domestic bank financing,
aggregate demand pressures and money supply growth rates remain high. Also,
the economy remains vulnerable on the external front due to adverse movements
in the terms of trade and the lack of growth in non-traditional exports.
1.05         During the period 1985-89, agricultural value added grew by 4.2
percent per year. The share of agriculture in GDP has been about 29 percent.
The forestry sub-sector has recorded an average annual growth rate of about 11
percent between 1985-89 and its share in GDP has remained at about 1 percent
for the period. Real value added in manufacturing has had a strong annual
average growth rate of 5 percent over the same period while its share in GDP
has been about 13 percent. The transport, storage and communications sector
has continued to make a significant contribution of 6 percent to GDP between
1985-89 and its annual average growth rate in real terms has been about 4
percent. Kenya's financial sector has expanded significantly in the period
under review: the number of commercial banks and non-bank financial
institutions has increased from about 70 in 1985 to 90 in 1989. Employment in
this sector has increased by 19 percent. This sector has accounted for about
7.5 of GDP between 1985-89 and average annual growth rates of 6.2 percent.
Value added in building and construction activity has increased considerably
by about 4.2 percent annually and its share in GDP remains at about 3 percent
over the period. The tourism industry performed remarkably well: relative to
1988, international arrivals in 1989 rose by 5 percent, hotel bed-night
occupancy increased by 3.5 percent and the number of visitors to national
parks and game reserves increased by 12.9 percent.
1.06         Kenya's economic strategy for the immediate future follows the
course the Government established with its 1986 Sessional Paper No. 1 entitled
"Economic Management for Renewed Growth". The major objectives of this
strategy are to accelerate economic growth and provide employment for a
rapidly increasing labor force. In the 1990-92 period, the Government is
seeking to reduce the budget deficit, limit public borrowing from the banking
system, rationalize public expenditures, reduce price controls, strengthen
monetary policy and contain inflation, manage the exchange rate flexibly and
promote exports, limit nonconcessional external borrowing, and improve the
performance of state corporations. Real GDP growth in 1989 is estimated at 5
percent and the budget deficit, which in FY89 reached 4.6 percent of GDP is
expected to fall to 4.2 percent in FY90, 3.8 percent in FY91, and 3.4 percent
in FY92. The 1989 current account deficit decreased to 4.4 percent of GDP
(including official transfers) from 5.3 percent in 1988, despite substantially
lower coffee prices and higher oil prices. The Government is aiming for GDP
growth of about 5 percent per annum in real terms, including expected growth
of 5.9 percent per annum for manufacturing and 4.5 percent per annum for
agriculture. Exports will be influenced strongly by what happens to the
coffee and tea trade, and are expected to grow at an average of 5 percent per
annum in volume terms during the 1990-92 period.



II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Main Features
The Resource Base
2.01         Kenya covers an area of about 583,000 km2, of which 8,000 km2 is
open water and 575,000 km2 is land of varying quality. It is a country of
tremendous contrasts in its ecological zones, varying from the tropical
coastal lowlands strip to Afro-Alpine conditions in the high mountain areas of
the center, high rain forest in the southwest, savanna grasslands in the east
and south, and near desert in the north. The agriculturally important
highland area is split on a north-south axis by the Great Rift Valley. Kenya
is endowed with a fair amount of water resources but from the point of view of
quantity and spatial distribution, these water resources are limited.
Rainfall, soils and altitude are the most Important factors affecting the
agricultural potential of various areas. Despite Kenya's large land area,
only about 9 percent can be described as high-quality arable land, possessing
adequate and reliable rainfall and good soils, another 9 percent is of medium
agricultural potential, and 9 percent can be classified as arable, but subject
to periodic drought and crop failure. Most of the rest of the land is suited
only to livestock, and even for this use, potential is very low, as up to 60
percent of the total land area is semi-desert.
Agricultural Production
2.02         Agriculture dominates Kenya's economy.  It employs 70 percent of
the nation's workforce, provides most of the nation's food, serves as the main
source of raw materials for the predominantly resource-based industrial
sector, and accounts for 66 percent of export earnings and roughly 30 percent
of GDP.
2.03         Growth in agricultural production has come primarily from area
expansion for crops such as coffee, maize and beans, yield increases for tea
and wheat, and switching from low value crops to higher value export crops
such as coffee, tea, and horticulture. In both volume and value, production
more than doubled between 1955 and 1977. After a few years of slow and
negative growth in the late 1970s due in part to the drought, the sector
resumed its previous growth rate. Agricultural production has grown at a
respectable rate of 4 percent per year during the last decade.
2.04         Smallholder agriculture is now the dominant mode of production
in Kenya. Population growth is keeping pace with growth in agricultural
production, at roughly 4 percent per year. The rural population has declined
as a percentage of the total from 85 percent in 1979 to 82 percent in 1985;
however the number of people living in rural areas has increased by 27 percent
during those six years. As the amount of high potential land per capita has
decreased, family plots have been subdivided; 80 percent of farmers now have
plots of less than two hectares. Two million, seven hundred thousand
smallholdings of less than 12.5 ha account for 75 percent of total value of
agricultural output, including livestock, 47 percent of marketed output, and



over 85 percent of total agricultural employment. Some of the landless, as a
result of this population pressure, have migrated to previously uncultivated
lower potential arid and semi-arid lands (ASAL), where there are higher risks
of environmental damage from deforestation, overgrazing, and cultivation of
marginal soils.
B. Factors Conetraining Smallholder Agriculture
2.05         Rapid and sustainable agricultural growth in Kenya will only
come about with the full participation of smallholder farmers. These farmers,
however, face many constraints such as labor shortages, lack of access to
capital and oths- inputs, poor infrastructure and transportation in rural
areas. The Gov rnment, with the assistance of IDA, is addressing these key
constraints through policy reforms and specific projects (paras. 2.33 - 2.40,
2.52).
2.06         Labor.  Smallholders face labor shortages due to labor migration
out of rural areas, weak rural labor markets, and the synchronization of
farming activities. Smallholders have not fully adjusted to the decrease in
labor availability. Current farming systems were developed at a time of
greater labor availability, and use labor intensive techniques. Farm
households, especially those headed by women, do not have access to the new
labor saving techniques and methods of increasing labor productivity that have
been developed. In some cases the lack of adequate labor acts as a
disincentive for crop diversification, greater input use, and more intensive
cultivation of the land. Despite the availability of better techniques for
increasing yields per hectare, this information has not been adequately
translated into increased output on smallholder farms.
2.07         Capital.  Kenyan farmers face severe liquidity problems.  The
Government has attempted to provide credit to the agricultural sector through
credit quotas, interest rate regulations, and the support of specialized
agricultural credit institutions such as the Agricultural Finance Corporation.
These efforts have failed to provide credit for the majority of smallholders.
The formal institutions serve large farmers by mainly providing deposit taking
services. Other sources of seasonal and investment financing are limited, and
few farmers can provide the necessary collateral. Informal finance in rural
Kenya is an important source of funds, but financial relationships are
confined mainly to family members.
2.08         Controlled producer prices and delays in payment of between two
to fifteen months for coffee, tea, maize, milk, cotton and sugar have
drastically reduced liquidity, and distorted producer incentives.
Agricultural activities relying heavily on purchased inputs, such as cotton,
coffee, sugar and dairy production, suffer decreased productivity as a result
of the inability of farmers to purchase and apply these inputs on a timely
basis.
2.09         Fertilizer.  Three-quarters of Kenya's smallholder farmers use
little or no fertilizers; their yield levels are consequently half of those
obtained by larger farmers. Variations in fertilizer use are related to crop
payout rates, labor availability, and high fertilizer costs associated with



inefficient marketing. Other factors limiting use of fertilizers are farmers'
knowledge and production level; the largely subsistence nature of food crop
production and the risk associated with new techniques; the historical lack of
access of women farmers to extension advice, cash, credit and their restricted
labor availability; fertilizer package sizes; the search costs in looking for
fertilizer and transport costs to the farm; and the nutrient content of the
fertilizer. Supply disruptions in the 19809 due to Government regulation of
fertilizer imports, poor management of commoditv aid fertilizers, shifts in
fertilizer policy, and delays in announcing fertilizer prices seem to have had
a serious effect on fertilizer availability at the national and local level.
2.10         Livestock Supplies.  Much of Kenya's livestock is grass-fed,
even in the high potential crop areas. As population growth exerts more
pressure on limited land suDplies, farmers are increasingly turning to
production of fodder crops, stall-feeding and purchased feeds. A major
constraint facing smallholders has been the variability in availability of
animal feeds, due mainly to a reliance on by-products from the milling,
brewing, oil-extraction, and sugar industries as major sources of raw
materials. Availability is also affected by the control of animal feed
prices. There have been occasions when prices have been held below the cost
of production, making it uneconomical to manufacture feed.
2.11         Infrastructure and Transportation.  The physical infrastructure
necessary to move agricultural inputs and produce between farms and markets is
inadequate.  The deterioration of surface, drainage and camber in rural roads
is adding substantially to rural transportation costs. The situation is
especially bad for tea and milk, perishable commodities whose value falls
rapidly with delays in reaching processing facilities. The development of
transport services is also lagging. While minor roads make up about 47
percent of the network, only four percent of the kilometers travelled each day
by motorized vehicles is on minor roads. These apparent shortages of
intermediate transport, and ineffective market consolidation raise
transportation costs and cause significant bottlenecks in marketing.
C. Agricultural Institutions
2.12         The agricultural institutional environment is extremely complex
in Kenya. There are nine ministries, 40 agricultural boards or agencies, and
five national farmers' cooperatives involved with agricultural operations in
Kenya. This proliferation of ministries and agencies allows for greater
emphasis on specific topics but it can lead to problems. Ministries often
have overlapping mandates; the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources
(MENR) is responsible for smallholder agroforestry, while the Ministry of
Energy is responsible for smallholder fuelwood production. Ministries also
have different managerial and organizational strengths and weaknesses, making
some of them incapable of responding as full partners to requests for
cooperation from other Ministries. Different ministries have received varying
amounts of donor attention and support. Ministries also separate and
recombine; the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the Ministry of Livestock
Development (MOLD) joined to form the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
Development, and then separated again, in a space of five years.



2.13         Agriculture.  MOA has the primary responsibility for
agricultural development and farmer services. Extension services to the
farming community are provided mainly through the Agricultural Extension and
Services Divis'on. Field extension operations are directed at the provincial
level by Provincial Directors of Agriculture and are organized and coordinated
on a district basis uiuder District Agricultural Officers. Each district is
divided into about five divisions headed by a Divisional Extension Officer who
directly supervises the frontline extension staff. Annex 5 describes the
organizational structure of MOA.
2.14         Livestock.  Responsibility for livestock development lies with
MOLD. MOLD has two departments: the Department of Livestock Production and
the Departnent of Veterinary Services. The operational divisions under the
Department of Livestock Production currently include: Animal Production, Range
Management, and Livestock Marketing. It is expected that new divisions will
be created for Extension Services, Dairy and Beef Management, Bee Keeping and
Project Management. The Livestock Development Division is committed to the
introduction of improvements in breeding, feeding and management of livestock.
Farmers receive extension information on animal production techniques through
MOLD's own livestock extension staff. MOLD's extension system is relatively
weak in the high potential areas as compared to MOA's extension system, but
is the only provider of extension services in the ASAL areas. Extension
services for herd health is being addressed through the Animal Health Services
Project (Cr. 1758-KE).
2.15         Forestry.  The main institution in the forestry sub-sector is
the Forest Department (FD) of MENR. Its chief functions are the management
and protection of Kenya's gazetted forests; the establishment and management
of industrial and fuelwood plantations; promotion of on-farm afforestation;
and initiatives toward the development of forestry policy. With a total work
force of about 16,000 people, FD operates some 160 forest stations reporting
to 40 District Forest Offices which in turn report to eight Provincial Forest
Offices. Although the FD's mandate in forestry development is broad, its
programs have been concentrated on industrial forestry, to which more than 80
percent of its budget has been devoted. This is only now being ch_nnged, with
external assistance, toward greater emphasis on FD's involvement in the rural
afforestation efforts on private land, notably smallholder farm land, and
conservation of the natural forests. The Forestry Extension Services Division
(FESD) of the FD is being strengthened under IDA's proposed Forestry IV
project to provide technical advice to smallholder farmers, schools and
women's groups in agro forestry. The extension work of FESD would be
complementary to that of MOA.
2.16         Research Organizations.  The Kenya Agricultural Research
Institute (KARI) has responsibility for all crop, livestock, and disciplinary
research funded under the GOK budget or through external funding obtained by
KARI. KARI's research programs and its organization and management structure
are being assisted by the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP; Cr.
1849-KE; Annex 13). The Kenya Forestry Research Institute (KEFRI) is
responsible for forestry research. Both KARI and KEFRI are semi-autonomous
parastatals under the Ministry of Research, Science and Technology (MRST).
Agricultural research is also carried out by Nairobi University, coffee, tea,
and sugar commodity research foundations and private companies. KARI closely



cooperates with these agencies through reciprocal participation in research
center committees and cooperation at the level of the Regional Research
Centers (RRC). The reorganization of KARI under NARP, and its transfer from
MOA to MRST, has had a disruptive ef£ect on its work in adaptive research.
Mandates and administrative responsibilities within KARI are currently being
clarified. MOA has had procedural difficulties in providing funds to enable
RRC researchers to participate in regular extensior. workshops. KARI is in the
process of resolving these difficulties, and with the assistance of this
Project, would strengthen its linkages with extension.
2.17         Parastatals and Cooperatives.  While providing marketing
infrastructure, inputs, credit, and in some cases technical advice,
parastatals and cooperatives have often been extremely inefficient. They are
characterized by political interference, poor management, weak planning and
accounting practices, and poorly supervised operations. Accounting for 45
percent of overall budgetary allocation, parastatals have been unprofitable,
and represent a serious drain on the Government's budget and managerial
capacity. The inadequate functioning of these parastatals and cooperatives
adversely effects the structure of incentives in the private sector. Reform
measures are being proposed under the proposed second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Operation (ASAO II) for the National Cereals and Produce Board and
Kenya Cooperative Creameries. The recently started Coffee II project (Cr.
2062-KE) addresses some of the problems of the Coffee Board and coffee
cooperatives, especially with respect to speeding up payments to growers.
2.18         Educational Institutions.  Responsibility for agricultural
education is shared by the Ministries of Education, Technical Training and
Applied Technology, Reclamation and Develcpment of Arid and Semi-Arid Areas
and Wastelands (MRDASAW), Cooperative Development, MOA, MOLD, MENR and MRST;
a wide range of non-governmental organizations; agro-industrial organizations;
and farmers' associations. Agricultural education forms part of the primar;
and secondary school curricula and youth are encouraged to join the 4K and
Youth Clubs.  At the professional level, four universities, Egerton, Kenyatta,
Moi and Nairobi, provide MSc, BSc and Diploma degrees in agricultural
subjects. Nairobi University also provides PhD degrees. Roughly 700 such
degrees are awarded each year. Certificate level degrees can be obtained at
agricultural institutes such as Bakura, Embu and Kilifi; another 600 students
get certificates each year. This emphasis on agricultural education has had a
positive impact on the extension services, as the educational level of the
extension and research staff has been upgraded.
D. Agricultural Extension
2.19         Agricultural extension is one of the key services provided to
smallholder farmers in Kenya. Both general T&V extension and commodity based
extension systems successfully coexist. These approaches are not mutually
exclusive, but rather complementary, especially now that the general extension
service is operating under a whole farm approach and can advise farmers on an
appropriate mix of cash and food crops to maximize income. The commodity
based extension services are operated by private and quasi-government
organizations. The extension activities in the contract farming arrangement
are tailored to achieve specific production targets. These extension services



are operated by the buyers of these commodities, intermediate producers, whose
ultimate objective is commercial profit. The commodity-based extension
services focus on tobacco, tea, barley, and oil crops.
2.20         Tobacco.  Tobacco production is undertaken by the British
American Tobacco Company Limited (BAT). All the tobacco used for cigarette
manufacture is grown by smallholder farmers under a contract farming system
with BAT. There are about 10,000 smallholder farmers, each growing an average
of 1.5 hectares of tobacco, who have contracts with BAT for production of
tobacco in Meru, Eastern, Central, Busia, Bungoma, Migori and Kuria. BAT
operates an extension system to advise farmers on production of tobacco and
the initial stage of processing. Since the curing process requires fuelwood,
the company supports tree seedlings from their own nurseries for the
production of trees for fuelwood. BAT is the sole buyer of all tobacco
produced, and the company has a team of trained buying agents. The tobacco is
weighed and graded, and the farmer is paid on the spot, after the deductions
have been made for various inputs provided on loan.
2.21         Tea.  The Kenya Tea Development Authority (KTDA) was established
as a statutory authority in 1964, charged with coordinating the production and
processing of tea by smallholders. KTDA operates an extension service in 12
tea growing districts catering for the needs of 150,000 tea growers. Its
services include provision of planting material from KTDA nurseries, credit,
extension, leaf collection services, green leaf manufacturing assistance, and
the marketing of made tea. Thus, KTDA has developed into a fully autonomous
commercial venture bringing many of the advantages of large scale tea
production to smallholders. All of KTDA's 900 extension staff, except those
at headquarters, are employees of MOA who have been seconded to KTDA. They
function like regular KTDA staff and are responsible to the head of KTDA's
Agricultural Department. This proposed Project includes provisions for cost
recovery from KTDA to MOA.
2.22         Barley.  Kenya Breweries Limited (KBL) operates an extension
service for the promotion of malting barley. The main producing areas are
along the Mau escarpment in Nakuru and Narok districts, and in parts of Uasin
Gishu and Meru districts. Production of smallholder barley takes place on a
relatively large scale - the minimum plot acceptable to the company is eight
hectares. Like BAT, KBL provides extensive field advisory services, credit
facilities for land preparation, purchase of fertilizer, herbicides,
pesticides, harvesting, and transportation of t}e produce to receiving areas.
KBL is also involved in research work on agronomic practices, new herbicides,
disease control and other related barley production activities.
2.23         Oil Crops.  In 1981, East African Industries (EAI) launched the
oil crop development scheme, which is owned partly by the International
Finance Corporation, to operate a smallholder contract farming system for the
production of sunflower. Through the scheme EAI provides inputs and extension
services to farmers. Sunflower is grown by smallholders in Nyanza, Western,
Central and Eastern Provinces, and by large scale contract farmers in Rift
Valley. The extension service is currently weak, in that there are few
frontline staff working with farmers.



2.24         As can be seen, these commodity based extension services focus
on a few crops in certain areas, with farmers who are willing to devote a
specific amount of land to production of the commodity. There remains a
strong need therefore for a general extension service targeting the vast
majority of Kenya's smallholder farmers, whose primary production is for home
consumption and who are either outside the contract system, or who contract
for certain crops but also grow other crops for sale in the market. NEP I,
and this proposed Project, are designed to provide geaeral extension services
to Kenya's smallholder farmers.
2.25         Training and Visit Extension (T&V).  Both NEP I and this Project
use the T&V system of extension service management. Under the T&V system, the
frontline extension staff visit selected contact farmers, groups or school 4K
clubs, according to a fixed two week schedule, to discuss and demonstrate
production technologies. Farmers not on the visit schedule are encouraged to
attend such demonstrations. The subject matter specialists at the divisional
and district levels train the frontline extension staff once every two weeks.
The focus at these bi-weekly training sessions is on production
recommendations relevant in the field during the following two weeks. These
sessions are expected to have considerable practical orientation and skill
training. The subject matter specialists attend monthly workshops attended
and assisted by the research scientists, to discuss technical recommendations
relevant for the following month.
E. Agricultural Te hnology
2.26         Although there have been some significant advances in technology
to improve land and labor productivit, in Kenya, more adaptive research is
necessary to make the technologies suitable for use by smallholders. There
has been significant recent progress in the development of improved seeds and
planting materials, agronomic practices, harvesting and processing techniques,
agricultural equipment, and soil conservation technology that is relevant to
Kenya's agriculture. There have also been some achievements in generating
improved technology for livestock production, agricultural equipment, resource
conservation and environmental protection (Annex 6). The substantially higher
yield potentials of improved planting materials and better crop and livestock
management practices are not being achieved by the majority of smallholders,
due to insufficient tailoring of research results, and shortfalls in the
dissemination of technology. This proposed Project would improve the
applicability of research to smallholder needs and the dissemination of
technology through better research-extension linkages.
2.27         Food Crops.  In maize, recent (or soon expected) releases with
considerably greater yield potential are Hybrid H626 for the high potential
zone, Hybrid C78 for medium potential areas, Pwani Hybrid 1 for the humid
coastal strip and Makueni Composite for the low potential zone with erratic
short duration raine. Although less researched, new technology in terms of
seeds and production practices for beans has the potential of significantly
increasing farmers' incomes through intercropping with maize. Research on
wheat has recently produced three new varieties of superior disease
resistance: Cbiriku, Pasa and Mirembe. Presently recommended wheat husbandry
practices are suitable only for large-scale mechanized farms; this is a



- 10 -
serious constraint to adoption by smallholders which remains to be addressed
by research on suitable equipment for land preparation and sowing. In
sorghum, three promising varieties (IS8527, IS8193 and E1291) are on the vo'rge
of release. KARI's reinforced research program on sorghum breeding and
agronomic practices is expected to result in the early generation of
technology for significantly increased productivity of sorghum as a food crop.
New sugarcane varieties at various stages of bulking before general release
are EAK69-40, 69-41, 70-76, 71-402 and 71-619. Given the importance of
vegetable oils, the past research effort on oilseed crops seems inadequate;
improved sunflower varieties earmarked for general cultivation in the near
future are Kensun 22 and 33 and Super 400. In research on rootcrops (Irish
potatoes, sweet potatoes and cassava), KARI is closely cooperating with
several International Agricultural Research Centers in the context of a
Regional Root and Tuber Crops Research Network. The production and
dissemination of certified seed materials remains a serious constraint to
increased production for these crops. Currently ongoing research is expected,
within the next three years, to result in several varieties of much improved
performance, and in the development of practical innovations in storage,
processing and utilization.
2.28         Horticultural and Cash Crops.  Fruits and vegetables (apples,
avocados, grapes, mangoes, oranges, passion fruits, macadamia nuts, as well as
cabbages, carrots, chillies, green beans, potatoes, onions and tomatoes),
offer great opportunities for increased employment, income and foreign
exchange earnings. The recent reorganization of the establishment and
operation of seedling nurseries by the Horticultural Crops Development
Authority is expected to reinforce extension's capacity to facilitate farmers'
access to good quality planting materials. KARI's decision to intensify
research on improved management practices is also envisaged to impact
production on the short term. In relation to cotton production, only one
promising variety (KSA 81M) is being readied for release; however, recent work
on biological control of the African boll worm is yielding promising results
with significant potential impact on costs of production and productivity.
For another important cash crop, pyrethrum, two varieties of superior
production potential (K218 and K235) have been recently released. Work on
clones, which can produce much higher flower yields, has resulted in several
that are in the final stages of multiplication before release: Ma/71/423,
Ma7i/1013, L72/26, L75/477, L75/487 and Ma 75/4 are suitable for high
altitudes (above 2000m) and KS/70/64, KS/75/6, KS75/336 and M074/223 are
spec'iically adapted to altitudes of 1700-2000m   The rapid multiplication of
planting materials using tissue culture is envisaged to greatly accelerate the
release of recommended clones.
2.29         Livestock Production.  During the past two decades, limited
resources were allocated to research on animal production and health.
Whatever work was done, often remained confined to the research stations
without a strong effort in on-farm adaptation to the conditions of
smallholders. It is therefore not surprising that the reservoir of improved
technology is much smaller for livestock production than for crops. There is
however, significant scope to improve farmer adoption of current
recommendations for stall-feeding milk production systems which is an
innovation of substantial impact. In the smallholder Zebu herds and in
pastoral areas, recommendations for better animal management, nutrition, and



- 11 -
improved health and extension services, are envisaged to have a substantial
impact on beef production. For goats and sheep, several improved breeds have
been developed for the different zones (e.g. Galla, BoerEast African and East
African goats for meat; Toggenburghs and Anglo-Nubian crosses with Galla and
East African for milk; Dorper and Red Masai sheep for mutton and Rommey Marsh,
Hampshire Down, Corriedale and a cross between the first two, for wool. In
order to improve the productivity of poultry, four exotic breeds and several
crosses are recommended: White Leghorn, Rhode Island Red, New Hampshire and
Australorp. Available extension messages for small scale poultry farmers focus
on health, housing and feeding.
2.30         Equipment.  Several low cost farm implements and equipment have
been designed specifically for the improvement of the efficiency and
productivity of smallholders. Further adaptation to specific conditions is
required through on-farm research. Some examples are: hand push punch
planters, hand-operated maize shellers, multipurpose oxen-drawn toolbars,
ploughs for heavy soils in high rainfall areas and for semi-arid areas, chaff
cutters, grain driers, and maize cribs for storage. If constraints with
regard to credit access, repair and maintenance capabilities can be overcome,
there is scope for significantly increased adoption.
2.31         Resource Conservation and Environmental Protection.  Soil
erosion and runoff are serious problems affecting long-term productivity and
sustainability in many areas. Past extension recommendations have emphasized
good farm management and structural measures such as soil fertility
maintenance, use of crop residues, contour ploughing and crop rotation, and
different types of terraces. The effectiveness of narrow grass strips to
improve soil and water management as a complement to terraces is being
reexamined, and could provide the basis for a major extension thrust in
resource conservation.
2.32         The use of chemicals for plant protection in Kenya has become
widespread but research on integrated pest management in Kenya has been
neglected. KARI in cooperation with International Center of Insect Physiology
and Ecology has recently initiated two specific research programs that are
envisaged to provide results to be disseminated by extension within the next
few years; (i) the development of integrated pest management technology for
foodcrops with initial emphasis on maize, sorghum and coconut; and (ii) the
testing of integrated tsetse pest management to replace costly dipping
programs for livestock.
F. Government Strategy
2.33         Rapid and sustainable growth in the agricultural sector is
essential and will be achieved primarily through smallholder farmerb.
Agriculture is targeted to grow at 4.5 percent annually. The Governx"cnt is
putting special emphasis on coffee, tea, maize, wheat, milk, meat and
horticultural crops, in order to provide food security, increased rural
incomes, and higher export revenues. Areas devoted to the production of
maize, beans and livestock feeds will be cultivated more intensively, and
marginally reduced in favor of high value, high employment crops. Coffee



- 12 -
areas will be expanded, whereas growth in tea production will be achieved
through yield increases. Coffee, tea, and horticultural crops will continue
to be three out of the top four foreign exchange earners. Increased food
production, expanded grain storage facilities, management of reserves, and
development of drought resistant crops will be the major initiatives on the
supply side in support of food security.
2.34         Given the constraint in agricultural land and on-farm labor
availability in rural areas, the Government is emphasizing measures that
increase agricultural productivity. To correct producer incentives, domestic
prices of agricultural products will be allowed to reflect border prices,
marketing boards and cooperatives will be restructured and will be required to
make timely payments to farmers, and markets will be liberalized. To relieve
the supply constraint, agricultural inputs, such as improved seed varieties,
fertilizer, pest and disease control chemicals, animal feed, animal vaccines,
artificial insemination, and farm machinery, will be provided to farmers in a
timely and affordable way by both public and private sector suppliers. To
improve farmers' liquidity and access to capital, the Government will
encourage private sector participation in agricultural lending, and will
restructure its development finance institutions. Agricultural services will
also be improved. Agricultural education will be strengthened to create a
cadre of knowledgeable and educated farmers. Agricultural extension services
will be expanded. Agricultural research will be reoriented to emphasize the
problems faced by farmers and develop technologies and labor saving devices
appropriate to on-farm use. Other areas of special emphasis include small
scale irrigation and drainage, and the development and reclamation of ASALs.
G. The Bank's Strategy
The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
2.35         The objectives of the Bank's assistance strategy for Kenya are
to support, simultaneously, the Government's short term efforts to restore and
maintain macroeconomic stability, its medium term program to accele..ate growth
in key sectors, and its longer term efforts to ensure the sustainability and
equity of this growth. The country strategy therefore includes short term
actions to reduce inflation and shrink the budget deficit, as a proportion of
GDP, by limiting growth of public expenditures, and expanding the revenue
base. It also contains medium term measures to tackle constraints to growth,
including re-orienting incentives to encourage private sector activity,
increasing efficiency of public expenditures to attain greater productivity
without crowding out the private sector, encouraging private sector export
development, restoring badly neglected infrastructure, and improving the
performance of the financial sector. To enhance sustainability and equity,
the Bank plans to support further initiatives to slow down population growth,
strengthen social services especially in education and health, raise nutrition
levels, address gender issues, monitor welfare, improve environmental
management, and increase employment opportunities.



- 13 -
Role of the Project in the Agricultural Lending Program
2.36         In the past ten years, the Bank has committed US$259m to support
projects in the agricultural sector, of which US$47m has been on IBRD terms,
and US$212m on IDA terms. Since FY83, all commitments have been IDA Credits.
In support of the Government's objectives and strategy a subsectoral shift
took place during the early to mid-1980s away from area development projects,
and toward improved agricultural services, promotion of exports, and sector
adjustment operations.
2.37         The Bank's sector assistance program is designed to support the
Government's main agricultural sector objectives of rapid growth, export
earnings, and employment creation. To do this, the sequence followed so far
has been: policies, vital services, and export investments. The first
Agriculture Sector Adjustment Operation (ASAO I) supported the first phase of
the Government's policy reform program. ASAO I was complemented by an ongoing
Agricultural Sector Management Project, which is providing technical
assistance, training and improved technology for policy making in the main
sector ministries, and in grain marketing. Other investment projects over the
last five years have been grouped around ASAO I. NARP and NEP I have
developed and transmitted technologies to reduce the labor constraint in
smallholder farms and improve productivity. The Animal Health Services
project supports the provision of vital service and inputs to the livestock
sector. The Coffee II project supports smallholder coffee production for
export.
2.38         In the past two years, the Bank has been preparing for the next
phase, which, with ongoing projects, will be grouped around ASAO II. The
latter will deepen policy reforms started under the first operation by
focusing on increasing the efficiency of maize marketing, liberalizing
fertilizer imports, distribution and pricing, and improving the composition of
public expenditures in agriculture. ASAO II will also begin new initiatives,
especially in poverty reduction and environmental actions, which will be
reflected in the investment portfolio. To prepare the way for the next phase,
the Bank recently completed sector studies on agricultural growth prospects,
food security, and rural financial markets, and provided support to initiate a
series of pilot measures under the Rural Services Design Project (Cr. 1974-
KE), which started in FY89.
2.39         After launching ASAO II to assist the Government in reforming
central policy issues in the sector, the Bank plans to support a series of
projects addressing infrastructure, environment and poverty concerns. These
projects will endeavor to alleviate constraints to agricultural growth, and
deepen the equity and sustainability of the sector's development. The Bank
will continue its commitment to the improvement of agricultural services
through NARP, the Animal Health Project, this proposed Project, and a proposed
future dairying project. The provision of these services to smallholder
farmers will enable them to take advantage of the improved policy environment
created with the assistance of ASAO II. Liquidity and credit constraints are
to be addressed through policy changes supported by the Bank's Financial
Sector Adjustment Operation (Cr. 2049-KE). Infrastructure constraints are to
be addressed through an agricultural marketing and agro-industries development
projects. Environmental concerns would be addressed through a new forestry



- 14 -
project, an ASAL development program, and a wildlife project, and poverty
concerns through nutrition initiatives and rural public works, especially
roads.
2.40         This proposed Project is closely linked with the Bank's ongoing
operations in research, animal health services, the ASAL pilots under the
Rural Services Design Project (Cr. 1974-KE) and the proposed Forestry IV
project. NARP supports the research complex's vital inputs into agricultural
extension services. With the assistance of NARP the various agricultural
research institutes of MOA and MOLD have been reorganized into a single Kenya
Agricultural Research Institute (KARI). Under the direction of KARI, the
national and regional agricultural research institutes will focus on research
that generates technology for use by smallholder farmers and will work more
closely with MOA and MOLD staff to translate research results into techniques
and practices suitable for smallholder use. The objective of the Animal
Health Project, cofinanced with IFAD, is to develop a viable and sustainable
institutional framework for the effective delivery of animal health services.
The proposed Project would complement the activities being undertaken to
rationalize the deployment of frontline staff, particularly in the ASAL areas.
The Baringo subproject of the Rural Services Design Project tests and develops
the provision of rural services, including extension, in ASAL areas. This
proposed Project would draw on the experience gained in the Baringo subproject
in designing the ASAL prototypes. The proposed Forestry IV project would
provide support for the development of technical expertise in agroforestry
extension. To ensure the full cooperation of the forestry and agriculture
extension services, a memorandum of understanding detailing the framework and
extent of cooperation would be signed between MENR and MOA as part of the
proposed Forestry Development project.
H. The First National Extension Project
Background
2.41         By the early 1980s it was clear to the Government that the
general agricultural extension system in place since before Independence was
ineffective. It was poorly organized and supervised, linkages with research
were weak, and staff lacked motivation and initiative. In February 1982, the
Government sought the assistance of the Bank in launching an agricultural
extension pilot project organized by the MOA in the districts of Kericho and
Nandi. The pilot was based on the T&V system of extension management. Early
success with the pilot prompted the Government to promote a national T&V
agricultural extension project in the second half of 1982.
2.42         NEP I was conceived as the first phase of a multiphased effort
to introduce the T&V approach throughout the crop extension service. In
September 1982 a preparatory document was submitted to the Bank for approval.
The project was appraised in February 1983, approved in June and became
effective in December. The closing date was originally envisaged for December
1987, but has been extended three times and is currently December 1990. The
project is funded through an IDA credit of SDR 13.9 H and a loan from IFAD of
SDR 5.6 M. The project provides funds for: (i) incremental staff; (ii)
vehicles and equipment; (iii) incremental operating costs and allowances; (iv)



- 15 -
staff training; (v) technical assistance; (vi) monitoring and evaluation; and
(vii) support to adaptive research. The project area covers 30 of Kenya's 41
districts, accounting for nearly 90 percent of the arable land in the country,
and contains over 95 percent of the population.
Experience with NEP I
2.43         During the pre-NEP I period the existing extension service had
not realized its considerable potential despite relatively adequate staff
numbers and the well-defined line of command. The reasons for this were that
staff, especially junior, were less well trained than they should have been,
they visited few farmers, and most visits were to progressive farmers who
represented only 10 percent of all smallholders. Work programs were in effect
non existent and day to day work was not focussed and field oriented.
Mobility of staff to the field was extremely constrained by the lack of road-
worthy vehicles and the absence of an adequate number of bicycles for
frontline staff.
2.44         NEP I introduced the T&V system of extension management that
ensured: regular visits by extension staff to farmers; organized reporting
relationships and supervision at all levels of management; regular biweekly
and monthly in-service training workshops for extension staff; a vehicle for
the transfer of relevant and appropriate area specific technology from
research to farmers; and stronger overall linkages with research. NEP I has
succeeded in establishing an organized and manageable extension service
capable of undertaking the transfer of improved technology to farmers and the
transfer of problems from the field to the research establishment. Staff now
operate according to a regular schedule, making it easier to supervise and
organize the work, and farmers can readily anticipate visits from frontline
extension workers. NEP I has succeeded in creating a farmer-extension agent
relationship that is more conducive to extension work.
2.45         The first phase project has also improved the training provided
to extension staff. Thirty orientation courses were organized for staff in
participating districts prior to their incorporation into the T&V extension
system. Frontline staff have been supported in their work by bi-weekly
training sessions organized as an integral part of the extension service.
Roughly 90 percent of these training sessions have taken place as scheduled,
despite occasional problems due to inadequate operational budgets. Monthly
training sessions for subject matter specialists have also been well attended
and the competence of SMSs has been significantly augmented. MOA has achieved
considerable success in the upgrading of extension staff: 800 staff have
received further degree training, 97 of whom have obtained MSc degrees. Over
300 specialized short courses in such subjects as home economics, horticulture
and coffee husbandry have been offered to subject matter specialists.
2.46         Two surveys using crop cutting techniques were conducted during
NEP I. The first of these surveys was conducted at the end of the short rains
of 1983 in the districts of Meru and Murang'a. Farms in which both extension
recommended methods and traditional husbandry practices were followed were
included. Crop cutting was carried out, and yields comparisons were made.
Average yield increases recorded by the survey were 28 percent for maize, 80



- 16 -
percent for beans and 84 percent for potatoes. Similar surveys were completed
in the districts of Meru, Murang'a and Taita Taveta during late 1984 and
results were also encouraging, with yield gains being observed at all survey
sites. Almost half of these gair,s were significant at the 95 percent level.
These surveys indicate the positive impact of the first phase project.
Improvements Necessary in NEP II
2.47         Inter-Ministerial Cooperation.  Despite the success of the first
phase project, several problems were encountered which the proposed Project
aims to correct. The most problematic issue was the separation of the
agriculture-related ministries and the creation of separate extension
services. NEP I was originally designed to develop an extension system to
cover crop production. In 1984 when the Ministries of Agriculture and
Livestock were merged, the project was expanded to include livestock subjects.
In late 1986 the two ministries were separated once again. MOLD has
established its own extension system for livestock, using extension agents who
had worked on livestock issues when the ministries were combined. MENR has,
meanwhile, expanded and strengthened its agroforestry extension system. The
result is that there are three parallel extension systems operating at the
frontline. This proposed Project will seek to reduce unnecessary duplications
in operations. MOA and MOLD have signed a memorandum of understanding
detailing their cooperative agreements (paras 3.06, 4.09), and MOA and MENR
will be signing a memorandum of understanding under the proposed Forestry IV
project.
2.48         Research - Extension Linkages.  The linkages between the
research complex and the extension services have deteriorated. As
reorganization of research became a major activity in the mid-80s,
participation of research staff in monthly workshops dropped off, and
coordinating bodies functioned on a sporadic basis. The implications for
research are that it has not pursued, to the extent possible, the development
of technologies suitable for smallholder use in different agro-ecological
zones. The implications for extension are that the service has not kept up
with the research complex's move towards a farming system approach. This
proposed Project will provide support to reestablish the linkages between
extension and research (paras. 3.24, 4.10 - 4.13).
2.49         Organization.  There have been some organizational problems at
MOA. There has been an undesirable segmentation of staff at the MOA extension
frontline, as each technical division has sought to increase the number of
frontline staff working directly with the division. Staff have been pulled
away from regular extension work and assigned to river bank protection,
catchment area development, home economics, fertilizer use field trials, youth
programs, horticulture, and tree nurseries. This depletion of regular
e'wtension staff at the frontline has resulted in increased and unnecessary
hiring of staff into the service. The resultant overstaffing poses a severe
financial and managerial problem. The proposed Project would include
organizational changes to improve the staffing situation at MOA (paras. 3.07,
4.08 - 4.09), in line with the changes necessary as a result of the new MOA -
MOLD cooperative arrangements.



- 17 -
2.50         Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E).  M&E was seriously neglected in
NEP I. Early reports included some negative results, which led to a lack of
interest in M&E by senior management. Since those early years, very little
work has been done in evaluating the extension system. In addition, impact
data on the effects of the system were not collected, making it difficult to
justify adjustments. The proposed Project includes plans for upgrading the
size of the M&E unit and the skill level of its staff, making management aware
of the importance of M&E results by providing access to M&E data, and carrying
out specific impact assessment studies (paras 3.10-3.12, 4.14).
2.51         Finances.  NEP I has had severe financial and budgetary
problems. The delayed preparation of procurement documents, and the
subsequent reduction of unspent funds in the development budget, gave rise to
substantial backlogs in the planned delivery of project vehicles and
equipment. As a result, the project has been extended three times. By the
end of the project period the balance between salary and non-salary recurrent
expenditures had shifted in favor of salary expenditures, severely curtailing
funds available for operating expenditures. MOA accounts have not been
accepted for verification by the Auditor General since 1983. Agreements have
been reached to stop similar situations from arising under the proposed
Project (paras. 4.06, 5.11, 5.15 - 5.16).
2.52         Mobility.  Access by extension staff to farmers is one of the
key elements in an effective extension system. Despite the provision of
vehicles and bicycles in the first phase project, mobility of extension staff
was a serious problem. As a result, frontline extension agents did not have
easy access to farmers, and district and divisional staff were not able to
carry out adequate supervision. Even though Kenya has a widely dispersed
network of private sector maintenance facilities, the lack of spare parts
seriously affected the availability of roadworthy transportation equipment.
This proposed Project addresses the problem of staff mobility by providing
transportation equipment, spare parts, and funds for operations and
maintenance (paras. 3.13, 5.06) and by correcting the imbalances between
salary and non-salary operating expenditures (para 4.08).
I. Donor Activity in Extension
2.53         Several other donors are actively involved in projects with
significant extension components or projects that support the extension
activities of both MOA and MOLD. These activities supplement the activities
of IDA, in areas where the donors have a comparative advantage or special
interest. IFAD, which would cofinance this Project, is actively involved with
several rural development projects, each of which have important extension
components. The European Economic Community is involved at the district level
in livestock development projects. The British Overseas Development Agency
has supported the Agricultural Information Center for a number of years, and
will continue to do so through various programs. GTZ, the German technical
assistance corporation, has been working with MOA for a number of years on a
farm management project to improve the information available on smallholder
farms. FINNIDA, the Finish Development Agency, is planning to help the
Government with agricultural curricula for use at the Farmer Training Centers
(FTCs), and with the rehabilitation of six of the existing 29 FTCs. With the



- 18 -
help of CIMHYT, KARI and Egerton University are undertaking a Crop Management
Research Training Project to train 700 students in crop production and
research actlvities.  Also at Egerton, the United Nations Development
Programme   d the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) are sponsoring a
four year program to train 400 extension staff in PAO's farming systems
approach. On a bilateral basis, the Government of the Netherlands is involved
with livestock and dairying, and the Government of Switzerland supports
agroforestry extension. These extensive donor activities are not well
coordinated; one of the goals of this Project is to increase the Government's
capacity to work with donors in a coordinated, coherent manner (para 4.20).
III. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect Rationale, Objectives and Main Features
Project Rationale
3.01         The current extension system in Kenya is well managed, and has
had a positive impact on agricultural production as indicated by the project
evaluation results and the preliminary findings of the Africa-wide study of
extension systems. It fills the gap in extension left by the private
commodity based extension systems. Support to the second phase of
agricultural extension activity in Kenya is necessary to strengthen the
management, expand the reach, and introduce innovations in the system. This
proposed Project is an important element in IDA's country assistance strategy
promoting the growth and equitable distribution of incomes. The timing of the
proposed Project is especially important. It follows the proposed ASAO II and
would therefore assist smallholders in taking advantage of policy reforms
introduced under the proposed credit.  It also synchronizes with the
implementation of NARP, which seeks to generate technologies that contribute
to increased smallholder productivity, the Animal Health Services project
which improves livestock services, and the proposed Forestry IV project, which
strengthens agroforestry extension. This proposed Project expedites
translation of research results into technical packages that farmers can adopt
readily and reinforces the emphasis of other projects on smallholder
agriculture. It is timed to start shortly after the first phase project ends.
Project Objectives
3.02         The objective of the proposed project is to increase the rate of
adoption and stimulate the development of technical packages that will enable
smallholder farmers to increase their productivity and incomes. To fulfill
this objective, the proposed project would: (a) consolidate and fortify
managerial gains made under the first phase project by (i) operating an inter-
ministerial frontline extension service; (ii) rationalizing the deployment of
frontline staff; (iii) strengthening supervision, monitoring and evaluation;
(iv) providing logistical support; and (v) undertaking a number of impact
assessment studies to measure the effectiveness of extension services;
(b) increase direct contact with farmers through (i) expansion into six new
administrative areas, and natural resource conservation prototypes in two ASAL



- 19 -
areas; (ii) greater staff mobility; (iii) improved and extensive use of mass
media; (iv) emphasis on working with groups and farmers cooperatives; and
(v) quarterly workshops for women's group representatives; (c) improve the
relevance of technologies and information for farmers by (i) establishing a
farming systems approach; (ii) working with research to disseminate and
further develop technologies suited to local resource availability and agro-
ecological conditions; and (iii) addressing issues of direct interest to
women; (d) upgrade agricultural skills of staff and farmers by (i) holding
regular training sessions for staff; (ii) providing short residential courses
at FTCs; (iii) improving the curricula at agricultural educational
institutions; and (iv) providing funds for short term and degree training in
agricultural subjects, both domestically and internationally; and (e)
introduce innovations into the extension system on a pilot basis that will
make it more efficient and cost effective, such as (i) cost recovery for
commodity based extension; (ii) systematic information flow between
researchers, subject matter specialists, extension agents and farmers; and
(iii) establishment of Farmer Service Centers (FSCs) on a pilot basis that
provide a variety of agricultural services under one roof.
Summary Description
3.03         The proposed Project would include investments over a seven year
period to strengthen the major components of an extension service: extension
management; extension methodology; training; and research. Specifically, in
organization and management of extension services the proposed Project would
fund: (i) investments and operational support required to strengthen the
existing extension service and expand it to six new administrative areas;
(ii) investments required to develop two prototype projects in ASAL areas;
(iii) transportation equipment to increase staff mobility and access to
farmers' groups, and improve supervision; (iv) buildings for use as offices
and training venues; (v) office, field and training equipment to improve staff
efficiency; (vi) a computerized monitoring system on a pilot basis; and (vii)
technical assistance and consultant studies. In the area of extension
methodology the proposed Project would fund: (i) the production of radio and
TV programs, community media and publicity campaigns; (ii) a question and
answer system on a pilot basis; (iii) the rehabilitation of FTCs; and (iv) the
development of two FSCs on a pilot basis. In the area of staff training, the
proposed Project would support (i) a comprehensive review of the curricula and
operations of agricultural educational institutions; (ii) short courses to
retrain staff in crop and livestock production; (iii) short courses, as well
as degree training, to upgrade staff skills; (iv) regular bi-weekly and
monthly training sessions; and (v) orientation courses for staff in the new
administrative areas. To strengthen collaboration with research, the proposed
Project would supplement NARP by providing funding for transportation and
equipment necessary for research staff to participate in training sessions,
demonstrations, and on-farm trials.



- 20 -
B. Detailed Features
Organization and Management of Extension Services
3.04         Expanded Coverage.  The 30 districts covered in NEP I include
nearly 90 percent of the country's arable land. The decision tc concentrate
on the high crop potential districts was taken so as to first cover areas
where the greatest gains could be made. Now that the system is established,
there is justification for expanding to areas not covered under the first
project. The proposed Project will be national in scope. Six new
administrative areas will be added: Kajiado, Marsabit, Nairobi, Mombasa,
Sambura and Tana River. In addition, four districts are being divided:
Kisii, Kakamega, South Nyanza, and Machakos. A minimum of 40 districts, out
of a total of 45, will be covered by the Project.
3.05         The Project includes the development of two prototype projects
in ASAL areas to test the provision of extension services to nomadic people.
The prototypes would be located in Turkana and Wajir districts and would
involve training pastoralists to serve as extension agents, who would travel
in mobile teams to watering holes in the ASAL areas. The work would
concentrate on water conservation and development, and livestock production
and health. These teams would be supported by subject matter specialists.
Since these areas are agro-ecologically and culturally different from the high
crop potential areas covered by the project, it is advisable to proceed
slowly. Agreement on the above was reached during negotiations.
3.06         Cooperation between MOA and MOLD.  The oper_tion of separate
extension systems by MOA and MOLD poses a severe financial and managerial
drain on the Government. In addition, there is a felt need to reach the
largest number of farmers with an integrated set of messages, enabling them to
make the tough choices necessary in running smallholder farms. The research
complex recognizes this by taking a farming systems approach to agricultural
research. In response to this situation, MOA and MOLD have reached a
cooperative agreement to operate an inter-ministerial extension frontline:
(i) MOA will provide in-service training for MOLD staff on crop production
activities and MOLD will provide in-service training for MOA staff on
livestock production activities (para 3.21); (ii) regular training on specific
extension messages will be organized jointly (para 3.22); (iii) both
Ministries will utilize FTCs for staff training and other activities (para
3.16); and (iv) staff will be redeployed such that (a) only one person from
either MOA or MOLD at the divisional level will be in charge of the extension
services; and (b) only one staff from either MOLD or MOA will be located at
each location and sub-location to cover both crops and livestock (paras 3.07,
4.04).
3.07         Staff Deployment.  The cooperative agreement between MOA and
MOLD eliminates the current duplication of livestock and crop extension staff
at the sublocational, locational and divisional levels, and increases the
knowledge base farmers can access. Similarly, to support the new
arrangements, the current crop extension system at MOA has to be rationalized,



- 21 -
so that specialists, such as in home economics, will be redeployed to work as
generalists at the frontline. Topics needing special attention would be
handled by a two or three person unit at divisional level which would provide
support to the generalist frontline staff.  In home economics, for examp..,
the units would serve women's groups in the division by providing gender
sensitive messages such as family planning and child rearing. The units would
be given the transportation and resources necessary to cover the larger area.
At the same time, all frontline extension agents would work with women farmers
and groups on crop and livestock production issues, and on non-gender
sensitive home economics messages. These adjustments in staffing within MOA
would take place in the context of the redeployment of staff under the new MOA
- MOLD arrangements (paras. 3.06, 4.09).
3.08         Working with Groups.  Kenya has a long and rich tradition of
farmers coming together in farmers' groups. Women's groups, whether formed to
farm common land, to gain easier access to credit, or to do handicrafts, are
especially strong and active. Farmers' marketing cooperatives are also
strong. In recognition of these facts, and due to the limited success of the
contact farmer approach in generating an adequate response from the community,
all frontline extension agents are now instructed to meet groups, rather than
individual farmers, at each contact point. A typical extension agent, who now
works directly with 48 farmers, can easily double the number of persons
reached by adding farm groups to the bi-weekly route. Farmers' cooperatives
could be encouraged to share in the transportation or training costs of an
extension agent, with the eventual goal of hiring their own extension agent.
In addition, frequent demonstrations and field days to which all farmers in a
given area are invited, are encouraged.
3.09         To improve the access of women to agricultural information,
quarterly workshops would be held at locational level to which designated
representatives of women's groups would be invited to meet with extension
agents, subject matter specialists, and other divisiona'. and district staff.
These workshops could introduce new technologies, cover topics such as
improved practices for crops and livestock, and provide an opportunity for the
women leaders to ask questions. The women leaders would then be able to
transmit this information to their groups and obtain feedback.
3.10        Monitoring.  Agreement was reached at negotiations that MOA and
MOLD would assign the necessary number of people within their central
monitoring and evaluation units to focus exclusively on monitoring extension
services. These units would add to the already existing structure at
headquarters and district level, and would improve the quality of monitoring
of extension services (Annex 9).
3.11         The availability of information at headquarters on a timely
basis on the implications of certain policy decisions, and the performance on
key management indicators would enable decision makers to react quickly to
developments in the field. An information planning exercise would be
undertaken to determine the availability of information needed for effective
management. Agreement was reached at negotiations that by September 30, 1992,
a system would be implemented on a pilot basis in four divisions within two
larger districts to collect, monitor and analyze critical information on the



- 22 -
effectiveness and efficiency of the extension systems, with the help of
computerized software and hardware (Annex 9).
3.12         Impact Assessment Studies.  Agreement was reached at
negotiations that a series of studies would be undertaken by January 31, 1994
to measure the impact and effectiveness of the extension system. These
diagnostic and prescriptive studies would focus on: (i) appropriateness of
messages; (ii) availability of technologies; (iii) knowledge and training of
staff; (iv) workload distribution; (v) effectiveness of contact between
extension agents and farmers; (vi) cost effectiveness; (vii) cost recovery;
and (viii) sustainability. These studies would be used in conjunction with
the evaluation of T&V systems in Africa to make qualitative changes to the
extension system at the time of the Project mid-term review (para 4.03).
3.13         Project Sub-Components.  To support the extension services of
MOA and MOLD, funding is provided under the Project sub-components for: (a)
MOA Extension-Headquarters; (b) MOA Extension-Field; (c) MOLD Extension; and
(d) Monitoring and Evaluation. Investment expenditures will be undertaken
for: (i) four wheel drive vehicles, minibuses, motorcycles, scooters and
bicycles to replace old equipment, increase staff mobility and access to
farmers groups, and improve supervision; (ii) office, field and training
equipment to upgrade the efficiency of staff; and (iii) refurbishing of
headquarters space, and the building of divisional offices. Operating funds
are being provided for the operation and maintenance of transportation
equipment office, field and training equipment, and buildings, travel
allowances for extension staff and on-farm demonstrations (Annex 1). To
assist the Government, funds are being provided for consultant studies and
technical assistance in: (i) procurement, accounting and auditing; (ii) impact
assessment studies; and (iii) organizational, staff deployment and training
studies of MOA and MOLD (Annex 16).
Extension Methodology
3.14         Mass Media and Communications.  In order to supplement the work
of the frontline extension &gent, the various forms of mass media - radio,
television, video, community theater, print media, and advertising - will be
used to deliver information on agricultural topics. Programs will be targeted
to reach specific audiences, such as women and youth. The intention is to
reach every farmer in Kenya with agricultural messages (Annex 12). At present
the Agricultural Information Center (AIC) of MOA is involved with the
production of daily and weekly radio programs, the submission of articles to
local newspapers, the production of pamphlets and booklets for use by farmers
and technical handbooks for use by extension staff (Annex 5). AIC also works
with ODA on initiatives to improve extension agent-farmer communications (para
2.53). AIC will continue to produce its regular programs and will coordinate
the production of new programs. Funds are provided under the Project to
replace some of the existing equipment at AIC with improved technologies.
Funds have also been allocated for the hiring of consultants to assist in the
preparation of new weekly radio programs and spots, quarterly TV programs
(which will be reproduced on video for use in training), community media,
print media, and publicity campaigns. There is a strong and vibrant private
sector capable of producing these programs, therefore funds have been
earmarked for consultant contracts with these local firms.



- 23 -
3.15         The introduction of new technologies often raises unexpected
problems during application at the farm level. To adjust the technologies and
practices, it is important to record and respond to these problems in a
systematic way. One proven method in extension is a question and answer
system, where frontline staff record the concerns of farmers, discuss these
with the subject matter specialists, and alert researchers to the problems
arising in the field. When the solutions have been worked out, the answer to
the original farmer question is recorded. These questions and issues are then
grouped by topic and published as a manual for use by extension agents and
farmers. To test the relevance of this system for Kenya, funding is being
provided for a consultant to assist AIC in designing a pilot and testing it in
the districts around one RRC.
3.16         Farmer Training Centers.  In the first phase project, the use of
FTCs for farmer training, an important element in Kenyan extension, decreased
in favor of strengthening the quality of extension services provided to
individual farmers. There is now a general recognition that FTCs have a
complementary role to play in extension and farmer training, arLd can
supplement the work of the extension agents. FTCs also serve as regular
venues for bi-weekly extension staff training sessions and monthly workshops.
In this Project, FTCs would be used to provide one week courses for farmers on
subjects such as animal traction, livestock production, use of rew implements,
introduction of new export crops, agroforestry practices and fruit tree
management. FTCs would operate self-supporting farms to demonstrate the
latest farming methods and technologies. Ministries other than MOA and MOLD
would also have access to the FTCs. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that IDA would fund the rehabilitation and furnishing of three FTCs on a pilot
basis. If the managerial and financial arrangements and training are found
acceptable at the midterm review, then the remaining FTCs would be
rehabilitated (Annex 11).
3.17         Farmer Service Centers.  In certain areas of the country farmers
do not have access to the inputs needed to implement new and existing
technologies. The Project would support the development on a pilot basis of
two FSCs in Kerio Valley and Marsabit, where the Government would be
responsible for providing the structural facilities and extension and
veterinary services, and private sector input distributors would be
responsible for providing inputs, implements, supplies and credit. The
facilities would include demonstration farms, where farmers would be able to
observe the interaction of different inputs. These FSCs would provide
potential rural entrepreneurs with the opportunity to gain information about
new technologies, and would provide a forum for technological interchange.
Funding would be provided for the construction, furnishing and operation of
these FSCs (Annex 10).
Staff Training
3.18         Maintaining and improving the skill level of extension staff is
necessary for the effective dissemination of new technologies to smallholder
farmers. This Project would focus on both pre-service and in-service training
(Annex 8).



- 24 -
3.19         Education.  The cooperative agreement between MOA and MOLD calls
for a re-evaluation of the curricula at agricultural colleges and animal
health institutes. Staff graduating from these institutions have to be
equally proficient in crop and livestock subjects, small stock management,
agroforestry, household management and food preparation. A consultant study
would be funded under the Project to review the curricula and operation of
agricultural educational institutions, and to prepare both short term and long
term solutions to strengthen these institutions, upgrade the teaching, and
devise curricula and degree programs preparing students for the tasks expected
of them in the extension service. The study would be finalized in time for
the Project mid-term review.
3.20         Study Leave.  In recognition of the importance of capacity
building, funding is being provided under the Project for overseas and
domestic degree training at the Masters and PhD level, and for studies of
short duration. Topics could include crop agronomy, horticulture, crop
protection, agriculture mechanization, farm management, and extension system
management. This funding is limited, since the experience of NEP I indicates
that widespread skill upgrading is more beneficial to the quality of services
provided than specialized overseas training for a few staff members.
3.21         Retraining.  As part of their cooperative agreement, MOA and
MOLD have agreed that frontline staff will cover both crop and livestock
production subjects. To enable the staff to fulfill this responsibility,
retraining courses of short duration will be offered for all staff requiring
such training. Agreed sites for these courses are the FTCs and the
agricultural educational institutions. To accommodate the urgent need for
these training courses, the number of full time slots at the agricultural
educational institutions will be decreased. Funding is provided under the
Project for retraining during the first three project years.
3.22         Regular Training.  Regular training sessions for frontline staff
will continue to be the most important vehicle for staff training. MOA and
MOLD have agreed to coordinate their regular training sessions on a bi-weekly
or monthly basis. At the district level, two-day monthly workshops will be
held with subject matter specialists who will prepare the extension and
training agenda for the next month. KARI would agree with MOA and MOLD that
senior scientists from the RRC would attend these monthly workshops. Funding
has been provided for the regular workshops and for the costs associated with
the participation of research staff.
3.23         Orientation.  There are six new administrative areas joining the
Project. In line with NEP I, a short orientation course will be held in each
new area to familiarize the staff with Kenya's T&V system of extension
management. Funding is being provided in the first year of the project for
these orientation courses.
Research - Extension Linkages
3.24         The development of viable technologies by the agricultural
research complex is the lifeblood of the extension system. Greater effort
needs to be made to ensure the effective transfer of technologies from the



- 25 -
research complex to the extension services staff and to farmers. At the same
time, effort needs to be made to ensure that research scientists receive
feedback from farmers and extension agents on the effectiveness and
applicability of research results, so that relevant technologies, such as
labor saving devices for women farmers, could be developed. To strengthen
research-extension linkages the agriculture based ministries and KARI would
agree that scientists from National and Regional Research Centers would be
involved with specific extension-related activities such as workshops, on-farm
trials, and professional groups. Funds would be provided by the Project in
the MOA and MOLD budgets to reimburse KARI for the transportation and
equipment required to provide extension support. MOF has agreed to provide
sub-Authorizations to Incur Expenditures (Sub-AIEs) for this purpose in the
MOA and MOLD budgets. This allocation will be extra-budgetary in the first
two years, and absorbed in the MOA and MOLD budgets thereafter. MOA, MOLD and
KARI have signed Memoranda of Understanding detailing the responsibilities of
each ministry in bringing about effective research-extension coordination
(Anne- 7).
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Management
4.01         Steering Committees.  Agreement was reached during negotiations
that an inter-ministerial Steering Committee comprising representatives from
MOA, MOLD, and KARI would be established and would have ultimate
responsibility for the project. Representatives from MENR, MRDASAW, MRST,
MOF and IDA would also be invited to attend the annual meetings of the
Steering Committee. 7n- Steering Committee would be chaired alternately by
the Permanent Secretaries of MOA and MOLD. It was agreed that Project
implementation would be under the direction of a Working Group reporting to
the Steering Committee and comprised of representatives from MOA, MOLD, and
KARI. It was also agreed that MOA and MOLD through the Working Group would
provide reports twice a year on Project implementation to IDA.
4.02         Work Programs.  Work programs would be prepared on an annual
basis, and should be focussed on ways in which the departments in MOA and MOLD
and other ministries and agencies, would support extension services. These
work programs would focus on the scheduling of workshops, demonstrations,
training sessions, training at FTCs, staff deployment and hiring (including
the proportion of women), and cost containment measures. The work programs
would include an assessment of progress made on key monitoring indicators, and
would reflect changes in the delivery of extension services to improve
performance. An important component of the work programs would be a review of
the previous year's budget, and a delineation of budgetary requirements for
the coming years. These work programs would be prepared and implemented by
the Working Group. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the annual work
programs would be submitted to IDA by January 31 each year, and would be
discussed and agreed prior to finalization. The submission of an annual work
program acceptable to IDA for the first year of the project would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.



- 26 -
4.03         Midterm Review.  Agreement was reached during negotiations that
the Goverrment and IDA would jointly conduct a midterm review by June 30,
1994, of the progress that has been made under the project. The midterm
review would assess: (a) the success of the ASAL prototypes, and the
feasibility of extending coverage to other ASAL areas; (b) management of the
extension system; (c) linkages with other ministries; (d) linkages with
research; (e) effectiveness of technology dissemination; (f) cost recovery and
cost reduction; (g) donor coordination; (h) the success of the mass media
component and communications pilots; (i) the success of the monitoring system
and the use of monitoring information to improve the delivery of extension
services; (j) cooperation between MOA and MOLD; (k) the success of the
rehabilitation and management of the FTCs; (1) success of the pilot FSCs, (m)
integration of home economics staff into the extension frontline; and (n)
implementation of recommendations from the study on agricultural educational
institutions. Using the results of this review, the results of the impact
studies (para 3.12), and the MOA and MOLD reorganization studies (para 4.07)
undertaken as part of this Project and elsewhere, the Project design would be
reviewed and any corrective actions taken.
4.04         Supervision.  Managers at MOA and MOLD will be responsible for
supervising the activities of their staff at the Provincial and District
level. At the divisional level, only one officer from either MOA or MOLD
would be responsible for supervising the staff at locational and sublocational
level. Supervision would include the regularity of farm visits and training
activities, the adequacy of interaction with the farmer, subject matter
specialists and research staff, and collaboration with staff from other
ministries.  Reporting and monitoring requirements would be prepared at the
beginning of the Project period (para 4.14).
4.05         Recovery of Costs.  MOA currently seconds approximately 900
extension staff free of charge to KTDA. Agreement was reached at negotiations
that cost recovery measures would be implemented such that one-third of total
costs would be recovered in FY 1992/1993, two-thirds in FY 1993/1994, and full
cost recovery would be achieved in FY 1994/1995. MOA coffee engineers also
provide free services to coffee factories. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that MOA would start collecting fees from coffee factories for
the services of these coffee engineers.
B. Institutional Strengthening
4.06         The Director of Agriculture and his staff need support in ke)
positions in order to coordinate and manage the Project. Three positions in
field supervision, training, and administration (procurement) were staffed
prior to negotiations.
4.07         With the changes taking place in staffing patterns and extension
methodologies, it is timely to study the organization of MOA and MOLD.
Agreement was reached at. negotiations that a study would be undertaken, to be
completed by January 31, 1994, to recommend ways in which MOA and MOLD can be
streamlined to implement improved extension technologies and deliver cost-
effective extension services. The results of this study will be used as part
of the midterm review (para 4.03).



- 27 -
4.08    In order to correct the expenditure imbalances under NEP I, agreement
was reached at negotiations that the Government would implement an action plan
on achieving appropriate staff levels at MOA and MOLD and on raising the ratio
of non-salary to salary operating expenditures. These expenditure norms have
been developed as part of the work undertaken in the proposed ASAO II, and
will apply to the entire Project period.
C. Cooperation between MOA and MOLD
4.09         The cooperative agreement between MOA and MOLD calls for close
collaboration in the provision of extension services. To operationalize the
training, deployment and management of extension staff, consultants will be
hired to assist the Government in preparing two studies. The first study to
be completed by January 31, 1994, will focus on staff deployment, and will
discuss the deployment of staff within the MOA organization, including the
reallocation of specialist staff such as in home economics to the generalist
frontline (para 3.07) and between MOA and MOLD. Agreement was reached during
negotiations that while the study is in progress, new hiring at MOA and MOLD
would be consistent with staffing norms acceptable to IDA. Within this
framework, the hiring of women would be encouraged. The second study will
focus on the retraining necessary to enable staff to effectively cover the
broader range of subjects. At the same time, the cooperative agreement will
be implemented in two districts on a pilot basis, and satisfactory and
tangible cooperation, acceptable to IDA, will be a condition of credit
effectiveness. Agreement was reached at negotiations that the cooperative
agreement would be implemented throughout the Project area at a rate of about
ten districts per year to be completed by the time of the midterm review.
During the Project period, the Working Group would be responsible for all
areas of cooperation between the ministries and would closely monitor
implementation (para 4.01).
D. Cooperation between Research and Extension
4.10         The proposed Project would build on the NARP structure which is
now being established and use multi-disciplinary regular workshops at both the
district and RRC level to facilitate two-way research-extension interaction.
Research scientists, extension agents and farmers would attend these workshops
and training sessions according to a pre-determined annual schedule. Linkages
would be kept as simple as possible to ensure that research scientists and
extension subject matter specialists are involved jointly and directly in
field work on adaptive research and technology dissemination.
4.11         Under NARP, the farmirg systems approach has been adopted.
Research scientists from RRCs and extension staff in the RRC mandate areas
will collaborate in Farming Systems Teams and work closely with farmers to
guide on-station and on-farm research in a farming systems perspective, in
order to identify priority constraints and to study socio-economic and other
factors which influence farmers' decisions.



- 28 -
4.12         To strengthen development of the capability of specialist staff
working on a particular subject in the districts around each RRC, the
Professional Groups that were started under NEP I and consisted of district
level and provincial subject matter specialists, would be reactivated. Group
membership would include research scientists from KARI and the RRCs, and,
where appropriate, the agricultural universities and colleges. Seminars and
training tours would be organized by the Professional Groups to keep extension
staff up to date in their specialty.
4.13         At both MOA and MOLD, a research-extension coordinator would,
jointly with KARI's Assistant Director RRCs, have overall responsibility for
seeing that the farming systems approach is followed with the help of the
Farming Systems Teams, that the Professional Groups are functioning properly,
and that research staff are participating in extension workshops.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.14         Drawing on the results of the information planning exercise
(para 3.11), the Director of Agriculture and the Director of Livestock
Production would prepare detailed proposals indicating the project management
and project impact parameters to be monitored, especially in the areas of
access by women to extension services. The proposals would indicate how M&E
reports would be used and how the results would be translated into improving
the impact of the extension system on agricultural practices in Kenya. These
detailed proposals would be reviewed each year as part of the annual work
program. Bi-annual evaluations of the effectiveness of extension would be
done in cooperation with the Central Bureau of Statistics and private firms.
F. Implementation of New Project Components
4.15         ASAL Prototypes.  MRDASAW has agreed that the ASAL prototypes
should be under the direction of MOLD. Details of the prototypes will be
designed by MOLD in conjunction with the donor sponsored ASAL working group in
Kenya, which is headed by IDA. These prototypes are expected to be ready for
implementation within the fIrst year of the project.
4.16         Mass Media.  Detailed plans for the implementation of this
component would be developed by a consultant prior to Project start-up.
Agreement was reached at negotiations that a qualified individual, acceptable
to IDA, would be hired to manage this component and work closely with the AIC.
It is expected that most of the new program development work would be
undertaken by private firms and individuals who have been trained at the
Universities and at AIC.
4.17         Farmer Training Centers.  The Government would prepare a
framework for the management and financing of FTCs within the overall
extension system. Prior to the rehabilitation of any FTCs, surveys of each
FTC would be carried out by private consultant architects and quantity
surveyors. Consultants would assess the rehabilitation work required, the
current status of furniture, machinery and equipment, required improvements to
demonstration farms, and the costs of bringing the facilities up to agreed



- 29 -
standards. A site survey and business plan including financial arrangements,
managerial arrangements, staffing, and training programs, would be prepared
and submitted to IDA for approval. The Project would fund the rehabilitation
of three FTCs in the first three years of the Project. The progress made on
rehabilitation, as well as the financial and managerial arrangements of each
FTC would be reviewed at midterm. The curricula and usage of the FTCs would
also be reviewed by IDA and other donors (para 2.53) at midterm. If the
experience with FTCs was found to be favorable, rehabilitation of other FTCs
would proceed based on approved business plans and site surveys.   Agreement
was reached during negotiations on the adequate provision of financial and
manpower support to the rehabilitated FTCs.
4.18         Farmer Service Centers.  Market studies will be undertaken for
each pilot FSC site to determine the service and input requirements of the
geographical area. Once the studies have been completed, MOA and MOLD would
issue requests for proposals .hat would include site designs, management
schemes, and costs. Each FSC would be individually designed to accommodate
the specific and unique needs of each area. Agreement was reached at
negotiations that the ministries would provide adequate financial and manpower
support at these pilot FSCs.
4.19         Education.  The study on agricultural educational institutions
would be under the supervision of the Working Group. The study would be
designed with the full cooperation of the Ministry of Education, and
implementation of study recommendations would be discussed as part of the
midterm review.
G. Donor Coordination
4.20         There was insufficient coordination of donor activities in
extension under NEP I. Different divisions, eager for more resources, have
accepted donor funds, along with donors' special interests. There are several
donors involved with crop, livestock, and agroforestry projects that have
extension components (para 2.53). The ministries have started to recognize
the importance of donor coordination, and agreement was reached at
negotiations that MOA and MOLD would jointly host semi-annual meetings of
donors involved with extension services and representatives from different
agricultural ministries to review implementation experience, and ensure
complementarity of activities.
V. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
5.01         The total cost of the project, including taxes and duties of KSH
208m (US$9.3m equivalent) or 19 percent of total costs, is estimated at
KSH1,077m (US$47.9m equivalent). Of this total, KSH404m (US$l8.Om
equivalent), or 38 percent, are foreign exchange costs, and KSH673m (US$29.9m
equivalent), or 62 percent, are local costs including taxes. All estimates



- 30 -
are based on November 1990 prices and reflect recent quotations and estimates.
Physical contingencies amounting to KSH46m (US$2.Om equivalent) or 5 percent
of base costs have been included. Price contingencies amounting to KSH19Om
(US$8.5m equivalent), or 23 percent of total costs have been estimated
according to the following rates of inflation per calendar year consistent
with latest Bank projections: 7.5 percent in 1991 and 5.5 percent from 1992
onward for local costs; and 4.9 percent from 1991 onward for foreign costs.  A
suimmary cost table is given below.  Detailed cost tables are included in Annex
1.
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total
--------KSH H --------    ---------US$ M-
Organization and Management of
Extension Services
MOA Extension - Headquarters          10.1    28.3     38.4       0.5      1.3    1.8
MOA Extension - Field Offices       202.7   136.1    338.8        9.0      6.1   15.1
MOLD Extension Services              58.7    40.7      99.4       2.6      1.8    4.4
Monitoring and Evaluation             2.1      5.6      7.7       0.1      0.2    0.3
Extension Methodology
Mass Media and Communications        28.9    33.8      62.7       1.3      1.5    2.8
Farmer Training Centers              89.4    59.6    149.0        4.0      2.6    6.6
Farmer Service Centers               11.2      6.6     17.8       0.5      0.3    0.8
Staff Training                         102.2      8.8    111.0       4.5      0.4    4.9
Research-Extension Linkages              14.4     1.6     16.0       0.6      0.1    0.7
Total Baseline Costs                   519.7   321.1    840.8       23.1     14.3   37.4
Physical Contingencies               29.1    16.8      45.9       1.3      0.7    2.0
Price Contingencies                 123.9    66.3    190.2        5.5      3.0    8.5
Total Project Cost                     672.7   404.2   1076.9       29.9     18.0   47.9
a/  Inclusive of duties and taxes of US$9.3 M
B. Financing
5.02      The proposed IDA Credit of US$24.9m would finance about 52 percent
of the total project costs, net of taxes and duties. An additional US$6.Om of
external financing would be made available by IFAD under parallel financing
through three IFAD projects (Annex 14). With the exception of technical
assistance, where IDA is financing the total amount, other costs are divided
between IDA and IFAD geographically; the Project districts not already
financed under IFAD's projects will be financed by IDA, and IDA would provide
incremental resources to the districts covered by IFAD projects, as needed.
IDA will finance about 80 percent of foreign expenditures and 51 percent of



- 31 -
local expenditures. IFAD will finance about 20 percent of foreign
expenditures, and 12 percent of local expenditures. The Government will
finance 20 percent of total costs, net of taxes and duties, amounting to 37
percent of local expenditures. To ensure the availability of local funds, the
budgetary requirements indicated in the first year's annual work program (para
4.02) would be reflected in the Forward Budget as a condition of
effectiveness. Separate budget heads would be opened for IFAD and IDA in the
Government's Development Estimates. The budgeting, disbursements, accounting,
auditing, and claims for reimbursement under each head would be done
separately.   Agreement was reached at negotiations that the supervision of
NEP II would be done nationally. A Project supervision plan detailing the
timing and nature of supervision missions, procurement and disbursements, is
attached (Annex 15).
C. Procurement
5.03        Procurement arrangements for items financed by IDA are summarized
below:
Procurement Table "
(US$ M)
ICB       LCB       OTHER    NA 2/   TOTAL
CAT I (i)  Vehicles           8.2                           3.5      11.7
(6.5)                                  (6.5)
CAT I (ii) Furniture                     0.3                0.2       0.5
(0.1)                       (0.1)
Equipment          1.1       1.0                0.3       2.4
(0.6)     (0.1)                        (0.7)
Instructional      0.6       0.2                0.6       1.4
Materials         (0.3)      (0.1)                       (0.4)
CAT II     Civil Works                   2.8       0.3      0.4       3.5
(1.7)                       (1.7)
CAT III    Incremental                                     18.6      18.6
Operating Costs                                 (7.0)    (7.0)
CAT IV     Training                                0.9      6.0       6.9
(0.9)    (4.7)    (5.6)
CAT V      Tech Assistance                         2.9                2.9
(2.9)              (2.9)
TOTAL             9.9        4.3       4.1     29.6      47.9
(7.4)      (2.0)    (3.8)   (11.7)   (24.9)
1' Numbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA
v/ Amounts included under Not Applicable (NA) column includes costs for
duties and taxes, local training, demonstrations and staff travel.



- 32 -
5.04        The procurement of all Bank funded goods and services under the
project and review of procurement documents would be done in accordance with
Bank Guidelines (issued May 1985). In order to increase capacity and
capability in procurement, technical assistance would be provided (para 3.13).
A procurement specialist in the Director of Agriculture's office and a
counterpart at MOLD would have overall responsibility for all procurement
matters related to the project, including preparation of bidding documents,
evaluating bids and finalizing contracts.
5.05        A Country Procurement Assessment Review including a Review of
Procedures for Government Procurement has been carried out for Kenya.
Procedures for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) would follow Bank
Guidelines. Procedures for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) shall be reviewed
by IDA and include public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, and local
advertising; award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder.
Procurement for project elements financed by IFAD would follow their
procurement procedures. Where ICB procedures are used, qualified domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference of 7.5 percent for civil
works and 15 percent for goods, or the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the CIF price of competing foreign suppliers. For
LCB, Government procedures were found to be acceptable, except for the
procurement of vehicles and hiring of consultants where preference is given to
local firms.
5.06        Vehicles and Equipment.  Funding is provided under the project in
order to increase staff mobility and replace old equipment as operational
support to MOA and MOLD. Vehicles and Equipment would be procured under ICB
in accordance with Bank Guidelines. Items would be grouped in packages, to
the extent possible, in order to attract major dealers and suppliers.
Contracts for less than US$50,000 up to an accumulated total of US$300,000,
may be procured through LCB in accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA.
Contracts for these items would be grouped in suitably sized packages for
better supplier response.
5.07        Civil Works.  The Civil Works category consists of the
construction of accommodation, offices, FTCs and FSCs at district and location
levels. Many contracts for civil works, aggregating to US$1.7 H, financed by
IDA would not be suitable for ICB because the value of each contract is small,
the works are widely dispersed and construction protracted over the seven year
project period. These works would be procured through LCB, under procedures
satisfactory to IDA, and where foreign firms are eligible to bid. The initial
LCB document would be reviewed by IDA. To the extent practicable, contracts
would be grouped in suitably sized packages to improve contractor response and
provide more competition.
5.08        Technical Assistance, Training and Fellowships.  Technical
Assistance to assist MOA in project implementation, preparation of studies and
the preparation of plans for the mass media component would be funded under
the project. Agreement was reached at negotiations that all IDA-financed
consultants would be selected through short listing and competitive procedures
in accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981). Consultant
qualifications, experience, conditions of employment and terms of reference



- 33 -
would also be satisfactory to IDA. Financing would also be provided under the
project for improved staff training, focusing on both pre-service and in-
service training and the provision of fellowships. Programs for training and
fellowships, financed by IDA, would be reviewed annually by IDA.
5.09        The balance of project cocts would consist of incremental
operating expenditures for vehicles, equipment and buildings, staff travel and
field demonstrations which would not involve procurement and would follow
Government procedures.
5.10        Review of Procurement.  Bidding packages estimated to cost over
US$100,000 for civil works, goods and equipment procured under ICB would be
subject to the Bank's prior review of procurement documentation. Contracts
below these limits would be subject to selective post-award review. Thus
about 75 percent of the total contract value of Bank procurement would be
subject to review. It is expected that 56 percent of goods financed by IDA
would be procured through ICB, 15 percent through LCB and 29 percent by other
methods.
5.11        Recording of Procurement Information.  On appointment, the
procurement specialist in the Director of Agriculture's office and the
counterpart at MOLD would prepare their proposals for collecting and recording
data on project procurement. This would include: the periodicity and content
of field reports and consultant performance evaluations; the preparation by
the Government of quarterly revised cost estimates and timing for all
contracts and other project expenditures; the preparation of Completion
Reports within a specified period from the loan closing date; and at the time
of supervision missions, a detailed statement of all procurement undertaken
to-date together with a forward forecast of anticipated procurement to be
undertaken in the coming year with estimated costs.
D. Disbursement
5.12        Disbursements.  IDA disbursements for expenditures net of taxes
and duties, will be on the following basis:
Cat   I(i)  Vehicles                        lOOZ of foreign expenditures (CIF)
and lOOZ of local expenditures (ex-
factory)
Cat   I(ii) Furniture, Equipment and        10OZ of foreign expenditures (CIF)
Instructional Materials              and 10O  of local expenditures (ex-
factory)
Cat   II    Civil Works                     1001 of foreign expenditure
and 50Z of local expenditure
Cat   III   Incremental Operating Costs   40Z of total expenditures for the
first four years and 202 of total
expenditures thereafter
Cat   IV    Training                        10O2 of foreign expenditure and
75Z of local expenditures
Cat   V     Technical Assistance            10OZ of total expenditure



- 34 -
5.13        Disbursement categories have been designed so that each category
corresponds to a group of accounts in the Government ledger, in order that
statements of expenditure (SOEs) may be supported by copies of the relevant
ledger accounts as well as supporting documentation. Disbursements for local
training costs and incremental operating costs, which would include the
operation and maintenance of buildings, vehicles and equipment, staff travel,
and field demonstrations, will be made against SOEs, which will be prepared
monthly. SOEs will be certified by the Director of Agriculture and the
Director of Livestock Development and supporting documentation retained and
made available for review by IDA during the course of project supervision
missions. Disbursements against all other items would be fully documented
except for items costing less than US$20,000 where certified SOEs will be
used. It is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed over an
eight year period; an indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex
1. NEP I disbursements spanned an eight year period rather than the five
years originally anticipated. This was largely due to procurement problems in
the early years of the project (para 2.51), which are being resolved under
this Project (para 5.11). It is anticipated that this Project would therefore
follow the standard disbursement profile for agricultural operations in Kenya.
E. Special Account
5.14        In order to facilitate implementation of the Project, it is
important that funds are readily available. Upon credit effectiveness, a
foreign exchange Special Account with an initial deposit of US$1.5m
equivalent, representing about three months expenditure, funded by IDA would
be established with a commercial bank through the Central Bank of Kenya, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. Replenishment of this Special
Account would be requested in line with Bank guidelines. This Special Account
would operate under procedures acceptable to IDA.
F. Accounts and Audit
5.15        Audited accounts for NEP I are severely delayed.  As a condition
of credit effectiveness, complete and certified audited project accounts
covering the period up to June 30, 1990 for NEP I, prepared by independent
auditors, acceptable to IDA, would be submitted to IDA. Complete and
certified audited project accounts covering the period from July 1, 1990 to
December 31, 1990 would be submitted to IDA by March 31, 1992.
5.16        The responsibility for auditing MOA's accounts, as in the case of
all Government entities, lies with the Auditor General. At the end of each
fiscal year the Auditor General would determine his office's ability to carry
out the audit on time and decide whether to appoint independent auditors,
satisfactory to IDA, to audit the project accounts, the Special Account at the
commercial bank and the SOEs. Accounts would be maintained in accordance with
sound and generally accepted accounting principles and practices acceptable to
IDA. Records would be kept permitting identification of all receipts and
payments under the project. Financial statements, including a sources and
uses of funds statement, would be prepared at the close of each fiscal year.



- 35 -
A certified copy of the accounts, together with the auditors report, would be
submitted to IDA within nine months of the close of each fiscal year,
including a separate opinion on the Special Account and on the records and
accounts used to support disbursements against SOEs.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
6.01        The proposed project focusses on creating a strong and dynamic
agricultural extension system which effectively delivers technical messages
particularly tailored to farmers' needs and aimed at increasing yield levels
for both staple food and export crops. The Project would thereby raise rural
incomes and employment and contribute towards the national objectives of self-
sufficiency in staple foods and increased export earnings from the
agricultural sector.
6.02         Economic analysis is generally not undertaken for extension
projects, given the difficulties of ascribing benefits to the adoption of new
practices. Using data from Murang'a district the potential impact on farmer
gross margins of two extension messages for maize for which field and research
data are available (higher plant population and early planting), was
calculated.  Given this partial analysis and making conservative assumptions
about the number of farmers reached and their adoption rates, the results show
that the increase in farmers' marketed output of maize could account for as
much as 1 percent of agricultural GDP each year (Annex 2).
6.03        An attempt was made to quantify the impact of the economic
benefits attributable to the adoption of these extension messages. Field and
research data indicate that by adopting extension messages aimed at increasing
maize population, small farmers (defined as farmers with between 0.4 and 0.7
ha of maize, using minimal fertilizer or chemical inputs) can achieve yield
increases of 26 percent, and medium farmers (defined as having 0.5 to 1.4 ha
of maize, and using fertilizer and chemical inputs) can achieve yield
increases of 27 percent. It is assumed that of a new group of farmers
receiving these higher plant population messages, five percent will adopt the
practices in the first year, 15 percent in the second year, 35 percent in the
third year, 60 percent in the fourth year, and 65 percent in the fifth year.
The data indicate that for another extension message, early planting of maize,
the results are more dramatic; small farmers can increase yields by 50 percent
from current levels while medium farmers can increase yields by 35 percent.
It is assumed that of a new group of farmers receiving these early planting
messages a total of 5 percent will adopt in the first year, 15 percent in the
second year, 35 percent in the third year, 60 percent in the fourth year and
70 percent in the fifth year. Several conservative assumptions have been
made: (a) it is estimated that given the changes in staff deployment taking
place as a result of the Project, each extension agent could meet two groups
of 20 farmers, as opposed to one group of 15 farmers, in addition to their
regular contact farmer visits; (b) all project costs, except those directly
attributable to pilot projects, are assumed to support the benefits derivable



- 36 -
from yield increases in maize; and (c) it is assumed that benefits from the
project will only derive from the adoption of these two extension messages on
maize. Given these assumptions, the Project could have an economic rate of
return of 15 to 28 percent (Annex 4).
B. Risks
6.04        The risk of a breakdown in cooperation between MOA and MOLD would
be reduced through the establishment of a Steering Committee and Working
Group, and binding annual work plans agreed with IDA. The risk of failing to
translate research findings into appropriate technology would be reduced by
institutionalizing research-extension linkages. MOA, MOLD and KARI have
signed Memoranda of Understanding detailing their responsibilities. Serious
constraints to supervision and operations caused by lack of mobility would be
addressed through the provision of appropriate transportation equipment.
Expenditure imbalances would be adjusted through adherence to norms, and
procedures established for their review. Progress under the Project would be
monitored through improved monitoring and evaluation of extension services, a
better impact assessment system, and a midterm review.
C. Impact on Government Cash Flows
6.05        The Government cash flows for the Project indicate that the
Government will have a net inflow of cash in the first seven years of the
Project, turning slightly negative in year eight as a result of debt service
payments. The cash flows remain negative thereafter, reaching a maximum of
US$4.4m in year 21, as a result of debt service and incremental operating
expenditures and replacement investments necessary to sustain the impact of
the Project. The foreign exchange cash flows are positive in the first eight
years, turning negative in year nine, up to a maximum of US$3.0m in year 21.
These cash flows are based on the conservative assumption that the Project
does not generate any revenues for the Government. These cash outflows are
well within the financial capacity of the Government; the maximum cash outflow
of US$4.4m represents eight percent of MOA's total expenditures in FY
1990/1991 and the maximum foreign exchange outflow represents five percent of
MOA's FY 1990/1991 expenditures (Annex 3).
D. Sustainability
6.06        There are two aspects to sustainability, institutional and
financial.  The T&V system of extension management, as implemented under the
first phase project, is sustainable; although there are clear shortfalls in
supervision and monitoring of the system, the management of extension at the
field level is strong and sustainable. This second phase project introduces
innovations in extension management and methodology. The Project includes
provisions for training, technical assistance and supervision to ensure that
at the end of the seven year project period there will be adequate managerial
capacity to sustain these innovations.



- 37 -
6.07        The extension system in Kenya is fully developed as a result of
the first phase project. This Project finances the replacement of capital
goods and extends the system to more administrative areas so as to complete
its geographic coverage. The extension system currently accounts for 39
percent of the total operating expenditures of MOA, 11 percent of the total
investment expenditures of MOA, and 32 percent of total HOA expenditures.
Incremental operating expenditures on extension as a result of the Project
would account for one percent of the total operating expenditures of MOA.
FTCs currently account for 2.4 percent of total operating expenditures of MOA,
2.6 percent of total investment expenditures and 2.4 percent of total MOA
expenditures. Incremental operating expenditures of fully operational FTCs
would account for 1.6 percent of MOA's total operating expenditures. These
recurrent costs can be supported by the Government, especially since steps
would be taken under the Project to improve the efficiency of the extension
service, and the FTCs would generate income from operations in the form of
training fees and sales of farm produce.
E. Environmental Effects
6.08        Under NEP I, effective work was undertaken to disseminate
technology to protect the environment and to assist farmers in soil and water
conservation. In the proposed Project this excellent work will be continued.
The decision to base technical packages mainly on the results of farming
systems research will ensure that recommended measures to increase production
take due account of the need for long-term resource conservation, and
maintenance of the productive potential of the natural resource base. In the
development of new technologies in the areas of plant nutrition and pest and
disease control, KARI plans a major thrust in the use of organic waste
materials and integrated pest management. The Project would, through the
dissemination of new technologies on fertilizer and plant protection,
contribute to the development of farming practices which protect agro-
ecological systems.
F. Impact on Women
6.09        The national agricultural extension system, assisted by NEP I, is
one of the leading sources of agricultural advice for women and addresses many
of the constraints they face. In general, women are very receptive to
extension advice. Contact with women's groups is proving to be particularly
effective in transmitting agricultural technical recommendations, and efforts
to recruit and use women's groups for regular contact by frontline extension
staff and to hold quarterly workshops for women's group representatives are
being promoted under the proposed Project (para 3.09). Even though few new
staff will be hired into the service, the hiring of women as frontline agents
is encouraged (para 4.09). In addition, women would be provided with better
access to relevant agricultural information through (a) fully integrating home
economics staff, and messages, into the frontline (para 3.07); (b) use of mass
media to reach women directly (para 3.14); (c) including more gender-specific
topics in agricultural training curricula (para 3.19); and (d) development of
appropriate technology, including labor saving devices and food processing
techniques (para 3.24).



- 38 -
VII. Agreements and Recommendation
he following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(1)      the prototype projects to be implemented in Turkana
and Wajir would involve the training of pastoralists
to serve as extension agents and would focus on water
conservation and development, livestock production and
health (para 3.05);
(ii)      MOA and MOLD would assign enough people to their
central monitoring units to specifically focus on
monitoring extension services (para 3.10);
(iii)      the Government would set up a system by September 30,
1992 involving two pilot districts to use computerized
software and hardware to collect, monitor and analyze
critical information (para 3.11);
(iv)      impact assessment studies would be completed prior to
the midterm review according to terms of reference
acceptable to IDA (para 3.12);
(v)      the Government would prepare a framework for the
management and financing of FTCs and would select
three FTCs to be rehabilitated during the first three
years of the project (paras 3.16, 4.17);
(vi)      that MOA and MOLD will provide sub-AIEs to KARI (para
3.24);
(vii)      the Government would establish an inter-ministerial
Steering Committee which would be responsible for
overall project implementation (para 4.01);
riii)      the Government would establish a Working Group
reporting to the Steering Committee to oversee the
implementation of the project (para 4.01)
(is)      MOA and MOLD through the Working Group would provide
reports twice a year on Project Implementation (para
4.01);
(s)      the Working Group shall prepare detailed annual work
programs and shall furnish them to IDA for approval by
January 31 of each year (para 4.02);
(xi)      a midterm review of the Project shall be conducted on
or before June 30. 1994 (para 4.03);



- 39 -
(xii)      HOA shall implement cost recovery measures for
extension staff seconded to KTDA in a phased manner
starting in 1992/1993 and achieving full cost recovery
by 1994/1995 (para 4.05);
.iii)      HOA shall charge fees for the services rendered by HOA
coffee engineers to coffee factories (para 4.05);
(xiv)      a study of the organization of HOA and HOLD shall
be completed by January 31, 1994 (para 4.07);
(xv)      the Government would implement an action plan, until
project completion, on achieving appropriate staff
level in HOA and HOLD and raising the ratio of non-
salary to salary operating expenditures (para 4.08);
(Zvi)      the cooperative arrangement between HOA and HOLD would
be implemented at a rate of about 10 districts per
year, and would be completed by the time of the
midterm review (para 4.09);
Kvii)     by January 31, 1994, a staff deployment study would be
undertaken covering the MOA-HOLD extension system;
while the study is being completed, new hiring at HOA
and HOLD would be consistent with staffing norms
acceptable to IDA (para 4.09);
viii)      a qualified individual, acceptable to IDA, would be
hired to manage the mass media component (para 4.16);
(xix)      adequate provision of financial and manpower support
to rehabilitated FTCs and pilot FSCs (paras 4.17 and
4.18);
(4x)      MOA and HOLD shall jointly hold semi-annual meetings
with donors; (para 4.20);
(xxi)     that the Project would be supervised nationally (para
5.02).
ixii)     that consultants would be hired according to IDA
procedures, with terms of reference approved by IDA
(para 5.08);
ciii)     the Government shall before March 31, 1992 provide
certified audited accounts for the period July 1 to
December 31, 1990 for NEP I (para 5.15);
mditions of Credit Effectiveness would be:
L)         that an annual work program has been prepared for
fiscal year 1991/1992 and approved by IDA (para 4.02);



- 40 -
(ii)        implementation of the cooperative agreement between
HOA and MOLD, acceptable to IDA, on a pilot basis in
two districts (para 4.09);
(iii)       that the Forward Budget contains adequate budgetary
requirements for the Project '>k.ra 5.02); and
(iv)        the submission to IDA of audited accounts for NEP I
covering the period up to June 30, 1990 (para 5.15).
Recommendation
7.03        With the above agreements and conditions, the project would be
suitable for a credit of SDR 17.4m, (US$24.9m equivalent) to the Government of
Kenya on standard IDA terms, with 40 years maturity.



KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULIURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(SHIlLINGS '000)                     1US$ '0001                       % Total
---^--------------------------   - ------------------------  I Foreign   Base
local    Foreign    Total         Local   foreign   Total    Exchange    Costs
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EXITESION SERVICES
1. MOA EXIENSION SERVICES - HEADQUARIERS                             10.057.6  28.335.0    38. 392 7       447.0  1.259 3  1.706.3            74         5
2. MOA EXTENSION SERVICES - FIELD OFfICES                           202.718.4 136,061.3   338.779.7   9.009.7  6.047.2 15.056.9                40        40
3. MOLD EXTENSION SERVICES                                            58. 733. 1 40, 660. 7    99,393.8   2,610.4  1. 807. 1 4,417.5           41        12
4. MONITORING AND EVAtUATION                                           2,072.6  5629.5        7,702.1       92.1    250.2    342.3            73         1
Sib-Total ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT Of EXTENSION SERVICES             273.581.7 210,686.5   484.268.2  12. 159.2  9,363.8 21.523.0              44        58
8. EXTENSION METHODOLOGY
1. MASS MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONS                                     28, 875.0  33, 794.0    62. 669. 1   1. 283. 3  1, 502. 0  2. 785. 3      54         7
2. FARMER TRAINING CENTERS                                            89.453.8  59.565. 1   149.018.9   3.975.7  2.647.3  6.623. 1             40        18
3. FARMER SERVICE CENTERS                                             11.215.6   6,605.8    17.821.4        498.5    293.6    792.1            37         2
Sit-Total EXTENSION MIEIHODOLOGY                                        129.544.4  99.964.9   229;509.3   5.757.5  4.442.9 10,200.4               44        27
C. STAFF IRAINING                                                       102.216.0   8,754.0   110.970.0   4.542.9    389. 1 4.932 0                8        13
D. RESEARCH EXIfNSION lINKAGfS                                           14,455.0   1,592.5    16.047.5        642.4      70.8    713.2           10         2
Total BASEtlINE COSIS                                                     519,797.1 320,997.9   840,795.0  23,102.1 14,266.6 37,368.7               38       100
Physical Contingencies                                                  29, 094.9  16.826.1    45,921.0   1.293.1    747.8  2,040.9              37         5
Price Contingencies                                                    123. 942. 6  66. 295. 7   190.238.3   5. 508. 6  2. 946 5  8,455. 0       35        23                                           _
Fotal PROJECT COSTS                                                       672,834.6 404, 119.8 1,076,954.3  29,903.8 17,960.9 47,864.6              38       128
Notaemer 20. 1990  14:04
If'
a
NI
-4



KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICUITURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUMMARY ACCOUNTS COSI SUMMARY
ISHILLINGS '0001                      (USS '0001                          Z total
-------------------------------  --------------------------  % Foreign   Base
Local    foreign       Total         Local   foreign    lotal    Exchange    Costs
I INVESIHENF COSTS
.. . . . . .....
A. CIVIt WORKS                                     47.419.6  11.854 9    59.274.5   2, 107.5    526.9  2.634.4                  20          7
B. VEHICLES                                        74.068.1 137.555.1   211,623.2   3,291.9  6. 113.6  9,405.5                  65         25
C. EQUIPMENT
OFFICE EQUIPMENT                                4,104.0   4,104.0         8,208 0       182 4     182.4     364.8            SO         1
FIEID EQUIPMENT                                13.619 8   1,513. 3       15. 133.1      605.3      67.3     672.6            10         2
TRAINING EQUIPMtENT                             4.327.2   1, 081.8        5.409 0       192. 3     48. 1    240.4           20          1
FARM EQUIPMENT                                  9. 660.0  17,940.0    27, 600.0        429. 3    797. 3  1.226. 7           65          3
AUDIO - VISUAt                                 11.038.4   11,038.4    22,076.7          490.6    490.6    981.2              SO         3
.   .........     ......... ....     ... .....   . .....  ...... .  -- -   -- -- -  -- - - -  -- - -
Si-Total EQUIPMENT                                 42.749 3  35. 677.5    78.426.8    1,900.0  1.585.7  3.485.6                 45         9
0. TRAINING                                       113,713.5    8,754.0    122,467.5   5,053.9        389. 1  5,443.0             7         I5
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            11,452.S  41. 175.0    52,627.5         509.0  1.830.0  2.339.0              78          6
..     . ..   . . . ..   .. . . . .  ...  .  .    . .....   .. . . .  ......  .     - - 
Total INVESIMENT COSIS                               289.403.0 235.016.4   524,419.4  12,862.4  10,445.2 23.307.5                  45         62
II. RECURRENT COSIS
A. OPERAIIONS AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                     137.761.0  74.179.0   211,940.0   6.122.7  3.296.8  9,419.6                   35         25
EQUIPMENT                                      8,238.9   8,238.9        16,477.9      366 2    366.2    732.3              50          2
CIVIL WORKS                                    8,278.2   2.069.5        10. 347. 7    367.9       92.0     459.9           20          1
- - I..   -- -- -     - - - - --   .  ....  ..    ---     -- -- -    .... .   ..
Sub-Total OPERATIONS AND MAINIENANCE             154.278.1  84,487.5   238.765.6    6.856.8  3.755.0 10,611.8                  35        28
S. STAFF TRAVEL                                   70. 140.0                70. 140.0   3.117 3           -  3,117.3             -          8
C. DEMONSTRATION                                   5,976.0   1.494 0        7,470.0       265.6      66.4      332.0           20          1
--   -  - - -    .. . . . ..    .   .. . --   -- - - - - - - -   .. .. . .   --  - -
Total RECURRENT COSIS                                230.394.1  85.981.5    316,375.6   10,239.7  3.821.4  14,061.1                 27        38
Total BASEtlINE COSTS                                 519.797.1 320.997.9   840,795.0  23.,02.1  14.266.6 37,368 7                   38       100
Physical Contingencies                              29.094.9  16,826.1       45,921.0    1.293.1    747.8  2,040.9               37          5
Price Contingencies                                123,942.6  66,295.7    190,238.3   5,508.6  2,946.5  8,455.0                  35         23
Total PROJECI COSTS                                   672.834.6 404.119 8 1.076,954 3  29,903.8  17,960.9 47.864.6                   38       128
Noveuber 20. 1990  14:04
0
Mt



KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICUITIURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
lotals Including Contingencies
ISHILLINGS '0001
1991       1992       1993       1994        1995       1996        1997       Total
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EXTENSION SERVICES
1. MOA EXIENSION SERVICES - HEADQUARIERS                                 6,3b5.5  11.064 2   8,894.1   6.972.9   2.751.3   7.306 8   3,608.2    46,952.9
2. MOA EXTENSION SERVICES - fIEtD OFFICES                               44,975.6  47.476.2  56.251.5  63.348.9  71.91 5  76,394 9  73,431.8   433,870 4
3. MOtD EXTENSION SERVICES                                              13.740 I  10. 172 9  11.778.1  28,861.7  20,467.9  22.786 6  19,814.8   127,622.2
4  MONITORING AND EVAEUATION                                             5,295 3       158 4       166 6   2.180 1       357 4      376 0       395 5      8.929.3
...     ..  ..    ....  ..   ..     ... ...  ..   ...   I....  ..   .   ..  ...  -   -   .. -- -   -- -- --   ----------
Sib-Total ORGANIZAIION AND MANAGEMENT OF EXIENSION SERVICtS                 70.366 5  68.871 6  77.090 3 101,363.6  95.568. 1 106,864.3  97.250.4   617,374.7
8. EXtENSION METHODOtOGY
I  MASS MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONS                                        18.908.8  10.543.6  11.320 4  12, 149.5   7.492.5   7. 78.9   8.285.4             76.579. 1
2. FARMFR IRAINING CINTERS                                              10,522.8  18. 180.3  21.613 6  25.357 3  35,878 3  41.b15 6  47.856.6   201.024 4
3. fARMER SERVICE CENTERS                                                       -  11,509.9   3,265.7   1,590.8   1.673 8   1.761 1   1.853.1    21,654.4
Sub-lotal EXTENSION METHODOLOGY                                             29,431.6  40.233 8  36.199.6  39.097.6  45.044 6  51.255 6  57,995.0   299.257 9
C. STAff TRAINING                                                           70.820.3  25,619.2  19,749.7  17.242. 1  17.916 6  18.891.7  19,515.5   139,755.2
0. RESEARCH EXIENSION tlINKAGES                                              2,494.2   2.629 3   2.771.7   2.921.8   3,080.0   3.246 9   3,422.8    20.566 5                                                   4>
lotal PROJECT COSTS                                                          123 112.6 137.353 9 135, 811.3 160,625.1 161,609.3 180,258 5 178, 183.6 .1,076,954.3
November 20. 1990  14 04
I.
W .



lotals Including Contingencies
1US$  0004
1991     1992     1993     1994      1995     1996     1997    total
282.5   491.7   395.3   309.9    122.3   324. 7   160.4  2,086.8
1.998. 9 2. 110. 1 2.500.1 2. 815.5 3. 199.6 3.395.3 3,263.6 19. 283. 1
610.7   452.1   523.5 1.282.7   909.7 1.012.7   880.7  5.672.1
235.3      7.0       7.4     96.9     15.9     16.7      17.6    396.9
3,127.4 3,061.0 3,426.2 4.505.0 4.247.5 4.749.5 4,322.2 27.438.9
840.4   468.6   503. 1   540.0   333.0   350.2   368.2  3.403.5
467. 7   808.0   960.6 1. 127.0 1,594.6 1.849.6 2. 127.0  8,934.4
-   511.6   145.1    70.7        74.4     78.3    82.4    962.4
-- -- -   - -- -       -- -  . .     .     .......     .. ... ..     .  .... .     ... . .
1.308. 1 1. 788.2  2.608 9 1. 737. 7 2.002. 0 2.278.0 2.577.6 13.300.4
925.3 1. 138.b   877.8   7fil, 3   79G 3   839.6   867.4  6.211.3
110.9    126.9    123.2   129.9   130.9   144.3   152. 1    914.1
--    .    .-  .....  .. .          - - -  -  .....     .     .......     .. ..  ... . 
5.471.7 6. 104.6 6.036. 1 7, 138.9 7. 182.6 8.011.5 7,919.3 47,864.6
0
Ih
0
C:
0
I,
.



SCCONIO NIAFIOtIA  AGOICU LIuRAt EXTENSION PROJECT
Swumary Acca..nts by Year
totals Including Contuingoncios                                                Totals Intcludintg Cont sgm.ctos
ISHIIL3IIGS 10001                                                                 (US$ '0001
1991      199?       1993      19194      3999      19916      1997      Iota1        1993    2992    1993    1994    2999    1996    1997    Total
i. lNVEStMNt3 casts
A. CIVIL WORKS                                 9.933 7  14.97? 3  11.524 5   9.280.4  12.299    10.441 8  11:002 2    79.415 7    441.5   665 7   512 2   412.5   544 7   464 1  489.0  3.529.6
8  VEhICLES                                   36.4aS.6  37.562 4  35.071 9  48.412 3 37.92t .~ 42.239 4  25.469 4   263.166 9  2.621261.669.4 1,558.8 2. :927 3.685 6 2.8?7 321.132 011.696 3
C. 19411P63?
OIFIC  EQUIP11EN3                           1.770 8   1:233.9   1,295.6   2.032,4   2,506.9   2,f41.2   1.198 2    10. 280.8         78 7    94.8    97 6    90.3    67 3    so 7    53 3    4529S
FiELD EQUIPRNCt                             2. 843. 3  3. 493 4   1. 990. :   3.9530, 6   2, 262. 2   2.384 4   2,9313. 2    19.017 0    126 4   399 3    68 4   356.9   t0'o,S    06. 0   3ll. 7    845.2
29*13136 EQUIPMIENT                         1.741 6      823.9     829 8   1, 613. 4    907.9      934.9     963 3      6, 600. 8    77 4    36.2    36.?    71 7    2. 6    23.8    29.0    293.4
FARM EQUIPMIENT                             2.606 0   4.108 7   4.316 7   4,5391.5   6.362. 1  6.687 5   7.029,9    35.65? 1    229.8   382.6   293.9   202 6   282 8   297 2   312 4  1.584 5
AUDIO - VISUAL                             10. 336. 0   4, 661.89  4.694 9   9.3139.?7    121. 3   327. 3     133 9    25.414 3    499.4   207 2   217 6   228 4        5 4     5.7I    S.9  3,329.5
Sub-lotaI EQJIP3IEN2                          19.297.9  14. 312.7  13. 329.0  16.855.6  :0. 762 2  10. 875. 1  32. 437.?7   96. 864.?    8 57. 7   636.2   9 92 2   749 2  478.3   463.3   506. 3  4.309.2
0  IRAINI3G                                   22. 608.3  27.5905.6  22. 739 6  19.342.7  20.1332.6  23,228.6  22. 980.8   :94.936.4  1. 004.8 3.222 9   966 2   899 6   894 7   943.5   976.9  6. 868.3
E. tEHICIlI*  AF.SISIAII(                    23, 007. 8  20.282 3  10. 798.0   7,5.9IIS    7.477 6   7.8958.?2  8.258 2    64. 797.2    978 1  457 0   479.9   316.2   332 3   349. 3   367.0  2, 879. 9
Total INVESTMENTY COStS                         :02.332 8 :04.639 0  92.4S9 2 101.009. 3  88.553 2  92.643 3 78. 348 4   698,780.9  4,903.7 4,6064.109 3 4489 2 3.935 7 4.1:7.9 3.473 3 29.279.2
II. RECUJRRENT COSTS
At. OPERATIONS AND NAINTENIAWCE
VEHllICS                                  9.377. 2  38. 202. 8  26,668.3  40.904.1 2 92393.5  63. 290.8  72. 786 6   282.1243.3    416 8   809.0 2. 189 3 2.8$00.? 22.262. 4 2.8Sit. t 3.239. 0 12.9539, 7
EOIJIPIENT                                   938.9   1.998.2   2,324.0   3.192,9   3.854 3   4.554 6   9.317 4    22. 778 9         41 7    73 0   303 3   141 9   373.3   202 4   236.3    968.0
CIVIL WORKS                                  360. 6     890. 6   1. 349. 7    . 859,4   2.924.?   3. 236. 9   3,807.9    13. 925 4  16. 0    39. 6    60 0    82.9   312 2   139.4   269.2    638. 9
S.4,-total OPERATIONS AND IIAIN2EN£3CE       2,76.   20,693.6  30,341.9  459,591.9  97, 732. 5  70.942 3  81.911 9   317.847 6    474 9   9:9.6 1.348 9 2,024.5 2.565 9 3,293.0 3,640.5 14. 126 6
B. SIAfF tRAYEL                              10. 907 6  fI:.507. 9  22. 140. 5  22,808.2  23.512 6  24, 295.8  29.039 9    90.1:72 1   484 8   911 4   539.6   569 3   bOO 6   633 6   668. 4  4.007 7 
C. OEN3STRAtJOll                                 :99.8     539 8     869.7   1, 260. 2   '2, 8321.0   2, 437.4   3.083 8    10.1293 6   8. 7    22 9       38.7T   56. 0    60.9   :07.4   :37.21   452. 3       I
tota3 RECURRENT COSTS                            21. 779.?7  32. 735 0  43.352 I 59. 639 9  73,096.3  87.639 9 200.035 2   438. 273 4    968.0 1.454 0 3.926 8 2.649 8 3.246 9 3.894,0 4.446 0 38,989.9
Ttoal PROJECT COSTS                              123.3112.63137.353 9 135.8:1 3 160.62S I 161.60903 380,258.5 :78.1838 1.076.994 3  9. 47:76.3104 6 6. 036.217,133897.182 68.0:397 .9g39347.884 6
Novemer 20. 2990 24.04
p.



KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Components
CUSS ' 0001
INTERNAT IONAL
INTERNATIONAL    FUND FOR
DEVELOPMENT   AGRICULTURAL
ASSOCIATION    DEVEtOPtENF    Government            Total
-------------  -------------  -------------  --------------                    Local tExcl.  Duties 8
mount   1       Amount   I      Amount   2       Amount    2    for. Exch.        Taxesl       Taxes
A. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EXTENSION SERVICES
1. MbA EXIENSION SERVICES - HEADQUARFERS                              I. 553.2 74.4     148.0  7. 1     385.6 18.5   2.086.8   4.4        1.528. 2          290.6      268.0
2. NOA EXTENSION SERVICES -F IELD OFFICES                             8.239. 4 42. 7   2.416. 4 12.5   8.627. 4 44.7  19. 283.1I 40.3      7.642.5        6.632. 7   5.00?. 9
3. MOL  EXTENSION SERVICES                                            2,414. 5 42.6     766.2 13.5   2. 491.4 43.9   5.672. 1  11.9       2.274. 9        1.777. 3   1.620 0
4. MONITORING AND EVALUATION                                            272.0 68.5       31.2  7.9        93.7 23.6      396.9   0.8         283.2           39.7       74.0
Sib-Total ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF EXTENSION SERVICES             12,479.0 45.5   3,361.8 12.3  11,598.0 42.3  27.438.9  57.3    11,728.7              8.740.3   6.969.9
9. EXTENSION METHODOLOGY
I. MASS MEDIA AND COMMUNICATIONS                                     2.324. 6 68.3      310.0  9.1      768.9 22.6   3.403.5   7.1        1.828.8         l.084.9      489.8
2. FARMER TRAINING CENTERS                                            3.942. 5 44. 1   1. 540.0 17.2   3.451.9 38.6   8,934.4  18. 7       3.472. 2       3.992. 2   1.470. 0
3. FARMER SERVICE CENTERS                                               417.8 43.4      139.8 14.5       404.8 42.1I    962.4   2.0          353.1I         358.5      250.7                              0
Sub-Total EXIENSION MEIHODOLOGY                                          6.684.9 50.3   1.989.8 15.0   4.625.7 34.8  13,300.4  27.8           5.654.2        5.435.6   2.210. 6 
C. STAFF TRAINING                                                        5.066.9 81.6      572.2  9.2       572.2  9.2   6211.3  13.0           489.0        5.722.4           -
D. RESEARCH EXTENSION I INKAGES                                            630. 6 69.0      109.7 12.0      173.8 19.0      914.1I  1.9          89.0          747.9       77. 1
total Disbursement                                                        24.861.4 51.9   6,033.5 12.6  16. 969.8 35.5  47.864.6 100.0    17. 960.9           20. 646.1  9.257.6
November 20. 1990  14:04
Io
-4h



IEIIYA
SECOND NATITONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
financing Plan by Sumary Accounts
1USS '0001
INTERNAIIONAL
INTERNATIONAL      fUND FOR
DEVEtOPHENI    AGRICULTURAL
ASSoCIArIoN      DEVELOPHENI    Government          Total
------w------  ----^---------  .....--------  --------------                   Local IExcl.  Duties 3
Amount    t      Amount   Z      Amount   I      Amount    I    for. Exch.       Taxes)       laxes
I. INVESIIENI COSTS
A. CIVIL I4ORltS                               1.710. 1 48.4      671.4 19.0   1. 148. 1 32.5   3.529.6   7.4         694.7        2.411. 3     423.6
8. VEHICLES                                    6. 452. 6  55. 2   1. 138. 7  9.7   4. 105.0 35. 1  11. 696. 3  24.4  7. 591. 3       596. 1  3,508. 9
C. EQIIIPNENT
OFfICE EQUIPMENI                              146.6  32.4       78.9 17.4      227.0 50.2      452.5   0.9         225.5           46.0      181.0
fiflD EGUIPNENI                                54.0   6.4       29. 1 3.4      762. 1 90.2     845.2   1.8          83.1          424.0     338.1
IRAINING EQUIPMENT                             37.7  12.9       20.3  6.9      235.4 80.2      293.4   0.6         58.0           118.0     117.3
fARM EQUIPMENT                                663.7  41.9      357.4 22. 6     563.4 35. 6   1. 584. 5   3.3     1.021. 2         563.4          -
AUOIO * VISUAL                                366.4  32.4      197.3 17.5      565.8 50. I   1 129.5   2.4         563 7          114.0     451.8
. .. .. .. .. ..  -  - -... -  -- -. -. - -   .. - -   .. - - - -------- ----                                 --         ------------
Sub-total tQUIIqtLNl                           1.,268.4  29.5     683.0 15.9   2.353. 654.7   4.305.1   9.0         1,951.5        1,265.4   1,088.2                                           1
D. TRAINING                                    5. 592. 4  81.4    637.9  9. 3     637.9  9.3   6, 868.3  14.3         489.0        6. 379.3         -
E. TECIINICAL ASSISTANCE                       2.879.9 100.0           -    -          -    -   2,879.9   6.0       2,218.2          661.7          -
-- - - -   - - - - - - . .  . .  - - -- -   ---   - - - - -   - - -   -- - -- -   -- - - - - - - - - -
Iotal INVESTMENT COSTS                           17. 903. 4  61. 1  3. 131.0 10.7   8. 244.7 28.2  29,279.2  61.2    12.944.7        1.,313.8   5.020.7
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE
VEHICLES                                   5. 115.9  40.8   2. 144.4 17. 1  5,279.3 42. 1  12.539.7  26.2      4,329.2        4.448.6   3,761.9
EQUIPMENT                                    458.9  47.4      193.8 20.0      315.3 32.6      968.0   2.0        477.6           490.4          -
CIVIL IORlS                                  211.2  34.1       87.6 14.2      320.0 51.7      618.9   1.3         121.2         423.5       74.3
Sub-Total OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE          5,786.0  41.0   2.425.8 17.2   5.914.7 41.9  14, 126.6  29.5        4,928.0        5.362.4   3.836.2
B. STAff IRAVEL                               1.017.9  25.4      412.8 10.3   2.576.9 64.3   4,007.7   8.4               -        3,606.9      400.8
C. DENONSTRATION                                154.0  34. 1      63.9 14.2      233.4 51.7      451.3   0.9          88.2          363.1          -
lotal RECURRENI COSTS                             6.957.9  37.4   2,902.5 15.6   8.725.1 46.9  18,585.5  38.8          5,016.2        9.332.3   4,236.9
Total Disbursement                                24,861.4  51.9   6,033.5 12.6  16.969.8 35.5  47,864.6 100.0    17,960.9            20,646. 1   9,257.6
November 20, 1990  14: 04
00
(Di



-48                           ANNEX I
Page 7 of 7
KENYA
Second National Agricultural Extension Proiect
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
------------------------------------------------------------__----------
IDA                               Cumulative       Country Profile
Fiscal Year      Disbursements    Disbursements    for Agriculture
-------------US$ million--------   (Z of Total)
---------.----_------------------------..---------.---------------__---
1991
2nd Semester        0.25             0.25               3
1992
1st Semester        0.50             0.75               6
2nd Semester        0.75             1.50              11
1993
lst Semester        1.25             2.75              16
2nd Semester        1.25             4.00              21
1994
lst Semester        1.25             5.25              30
2nd Semester        2.25             7.50              40
1995
1st Semester        2.50            10.00              51
2nd Semester        4.70            14.70              59
1996
1st Semester        2.80            17.50              70
2nd Semester        2.50            20.00             80
1997
1st Semester        2.20            22.20             89
2nd Semester        1.50            23.70              95
1998
1st Semester        1.20            24.90             100
Project Completion Date: September 30, 1997
Project Closing Date:    March 31, 1998



- 49 -
1ItA                                                         A*    2
~~~~~... ..                                                             -------
$SC"  #EAYZOM4L 57361W4 mmi
No Iherease in Nuhcr eo  ftmre           Incrceso in Ntiber of farmer.
LUN      Mod i me    l4sh                 1e      Ma uU      Huoh
_ ..........................................  ------     ------   _,,,-.,_,,,-----. _____
Cwrrent Extension Sc viceo
Nimber of Farserc Reached             192.000   270.000   410.000              27n.00    410.000   495.000
AvereUg Cros Morgin                       972       972       972                  972       972        972
_____.___.__._....... ........__. . .,__.......  ------  -----  ---------
Cumulative Croem Iirgin (1)               1e8       268      S                    268       890        481
Cumilativw  Craeg  4rsin (SW,             6.3      11.7       17.7                11.7      17.7       21.4
Percent of Agricultueel 00P              0.49      0.6911    1.051                0.691     1.055      1.26W
loosct of ErtAn-ion service,
1. H;gnr Plant Pwulation
Number of Farsers Reached             192.000   no.000   410.000               270.000   410.000   405.000
Average Cross  argin                    1.116     1.116     1.116                1,116     1.116      1.116
Cumulative Oro4 PMargin (PI)              214       301       457                  301       457        552
Cuulative troso Margin (SE9               9.5      13.4      20.8                 18.4      20.8       24.5
Percent of Agricultural OF               0.563     0.7 "      1.203               0. 791    1.200      1.45
2. Early Planting
Nuehbr of Farms Reached               192.000   270.000   410.0O               270.000   410.000   495.000
Ave-nge Oeros (rgin                    IS51      1,551      1561.               1.551     1.551      1.551
Cumulative OCt.o  Margin (N)              295       419        636                 419       68         768
Cumulative Cro" lrogi.i (O)              18.2      1s.6      28.3                 16.6      28.8       34.1
Percart of Agricultural 0DP              0.781     1.103     1.671                1.103     1.673      2.028
Background matarials are in the Project Films.



- 50 -
KMA
$19COM NATIl>W EXEMN lMtO2
00T6 CAM FUb
._______._ .............. ___ ....____.._.____________,__________.__.________________________________.__________________________________
1       2       3        4       S       10      15      20       25      30      85       40
114LOWS
Loan receipts                0.98    2.47    8.09    S.67    S."7    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Out.., and tuex              0.26    0.74    0.98    1.76    1.7N    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0t    0.00
OUTFLOWS
Project expenditure.         1.16    8.09    8.66    7.33    7.88    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Debt aervice - MA
Service charge             0.01    0.02    0.04    0.07    0.11    0.19    0.17    0.15    0.11    0.07    0.04    0.00
Principal                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.80    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Debt service - IFAD
Service charge             0.00    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.04    0.06    0.06    0.04    0.08    0.02    0.01   (0.00)
Principal                  o.0o    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20
Replcement                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    8.00    8.00    8.00    8.00    8.00    3.00
O.f8ENT SWP.S1                0.04    0.10    0.10    0.20    0.18   (3.25)  (8.92)  (8.09)  (4.34)  (4.29)  (4.24)  (4.20)
CJA.ATIVE SRLLX                0.04    0.14    0.24    0.4       0.59   (5.95) (25.66) (48.00)  (66.86)  (66.41) (109.72) (180.80)
FONREI  EXOUANE fLUM
1       2       3        4       5       10      1S      20       25      30       35      40
SFOW
Loan receipt.                0.93    2.47    8.09    8.67    8.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Project Foreign Coete        0.51    1.86    1.70    8.2J    8.2S    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Debt Service - DA
Service charge             0.01    0.02    0.04    0.07    0.11    0.19    0.17    0.18    0.11    0.07    0.04    0.00
Principal                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.80    0.50    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00
Debt aervice - IFAD
Service charge             0.00    0.01    0.01    0.02    0.04    0.06    0.05    0.04    0.08    0.02    0.01   (0.00)
Principal                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20    0.20
Replacement                  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.60    1.60    1.60    1.d60    1.O    1.60    1.60
CURFT 9SMPLUS                  0.41    1.06    1.84    2.S4    2.49   (1.08)  (2.62)  (2.49)  (2.94)  (2.69)  (2.04)  (2.60)
CUA1ATIVE SULS                 0.41    1.49    2.68    5.87    7.S6   10.77   (I.66) (14.86) (29.14) (43.69) (86.00) (72.00)
Figures are in U#S millione.
Bchkround _terials are in tho preject files.



- 51 -
6MM 4
S1CO  NATIONAL . MT964 PROJET
EWONOIC AILYSIS
Without Project Scenario:  o Incrrs.e In Nuber of Farmere
Veer I  Yoer 2   Year 3   YVer 4   Ye.. 5   Year 6   Yeor 7   YVee 8   Yes, 9   Yesar 10
Number of Fererer Reached by Eatenoion Staff                270.000  270.000  270.000  270,000 270.000  270,000  270.000  270.000  270.000  270.000
Number of Farmere Fol loing Extension Iossago,              270.000 270.000  270,000  270.000  270.000  270,000  270.000  270.000  270.000  270.000
A.ermg* Cror   Margin Per Formr                                 163       163      16         9 163  16       16       163      13        163      163
Total Croe Mergin (( 14IN)                                       44       44       44        44       44       44       44       44       44        44
Total Cross Marin (USO 14)                                      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.7       1.7      1.7
With Project Scenerio: Increase in Number of Former. Adoption of Higher Plant Poegletion
Year I  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Yese 5   Year 6   Yo.r 7   V*er 6   Year 9   Yoer 10
Nasker of Farmere Reached by Ertnion Staff                  270.000  310.500  357,075  410.636 410.636  410.636  410.636  410,636  410.636  410.636
Number of Faraere Following Erten-ion Nssage                 13.500   42.525  102.904  15u.63e  224.135  24e.5U1  264.235  264.235  264.235  264,235
Anerage Crore  Margin Per ForeI 1.065    1,06S    1.065    1.065    1.065    1.065    1.061   1.065    1.065    1.065
Total Orcee Margin (KOH N)                                        14      45       110      196      239      2"6      261      261       261      261
Total Crame -aegin (ISO N)                                      0.6       1.7      4.2      7.6      9.2    10.2    10.9        10.0    10.9      10.9
Incremental Croae Margin (ISO 14)                              (1.1)    0.0       2.5       5.9      7.5      6.5      9.2      9.2      9.2       9.2
ProjctCostStream                                     (22.6)    (1.1)     0.0       2.5      5.9      7.5      6.5      9.2      0.2       9.2      9.2
DIR                                                     s1U
With Project Scenario:  Inreaeeo in Nmber of Farmers. Adoption of Early Planting
Year 1  Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Yeer 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 6   Year 9   Year 10
Number of Farmere Reached by Extension Staff                270.000  310.800  357.075  410.636  410,636  410.636  410.635  410.636  410.636  410.636
Nmeeer of Fareere Following Extension Neesagee               1S.500   42.52   102.904  165.639  237.635  264.041  202.069  267.445  287.446  267.445
Aeroge Oro"e Margin Por Foreer                                1.715    1.715    1.715    1.715    1.715    1.715    1.716    1.715    1.715    1.715
Total Croes Margin (1P1 4)                                       23       73       176     319       407      453      484      493      493       493
Total Cross Margin (USO 1)                                      0.9      2.8      6.6    12.3    15.7    17.5    16.7    19.0    19.0    19.0
Infcr.ntal Cross Margin (USD 14)                               (0.6)     1.1      5.1    10.6    14.0        15.8     17.0     17.3     17.3      17.3
Project Cost Stre-                                   (22.6)    (0.8)     1.1      5.1      10.6    14.0    15.6    17.0        17.3    17.3    17.3
IRR                                                     26
Ilekground material. are in the pro;ect file.



- 52 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
The Organization of the Ministry of A,riculture
1.    MOA is administered by a Permanent Secretary with a staff of career
administrators. The Department of Agriculture, consisting of personnel from
the Agricultural Scheme of Service, is headed by a Director of Agriculture
(DA), who directs seven divisions at MOA headquarters. Each division is
managed by a division chief with the rank of Deputy Director of Agriculture
(DDA). The departmental arrangement is summarized in the attached chart.
2.    The DA also directs field staff, who form the bulk of the service.
These are organized as teams at the provincial, district and divisional
levels. Below this level, location officers supervise teams of frontline
extension workers who work in sub-locations. MOA is involved in eight
Provinces, 42 (soon to be 45) Districts, 252 Divisions, 1,048 Locations, and
3,600 Sub-Locations. As can be seen from the table below in addition to the
DA, seven DDAs, eight Assistant DAs at headquarters, and staff at provincial
offices and training institutes, the vast majority of MOA's roughly 8,400
technical personnel work within the districts.
MOA Staff Deployment
Headquarters Staff             155
Provincial Staff               342
District Staff               7,743
Training Institutes            153
8,393
Agricultural Extension and Services Division (AESD)
3.    AESD is directed by the Deputy DDA - AESD.  It consists of five
branches: Extension Management; Agricultural Information; Farmer Training;
Home Economics; and Rural Youth. There are a total of 70 AESD staff at MOA
Headquarters, including the Agricultural Information Center (AIC). In the
field, the Provincial Extension Coordinators (PECs) and District Extension
Coordinators (DECs) are directly under the authority of the DDA - AESD. The
frontline extension staff and their immediate supervisors, are deployed and
recruited by AESD, but day to day supervision is the responsibility of the
DAO.
4.    The Extension Management Branch is the key branch concerned with the
headquarters' management of extension. The Management Section, which is
currently managed directly by the Branch Head, is at the center of all
administrative and financial activities, and has a range of essential
managerial functions. It is charged with: staff deployment and monitoring;



- 53 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
work programming, planning and procurement; maintenance of staffing, inventory
and financial records related to extension; and allocation of transport and
equipment in the field.
5.    The Supervision Section is responsible for guiding extension field staff
in the efficient running of the extension program. In particular, it is
responsible for the smooth functioning of the monitoring and reporting system,
with special emphasis on information relating to regular farm visiting and in-
service training.
6.    The Extension Communication Training Section works closely with the
Agricultural Information Center (AIC) to: (i) monitor the effectiveness of the
teaching methodologies at the sessions for frontline staff and the subject
matter specialists; (ii) enhance the activities of Professional Groups; (iii)
promote the use of effective communications techniques for frontline staff
working with groups; (iv) study the process of two-way communications between
farmers and frontline staff with a view to introducing improved approaches;
and (v) introduce modern techniques of mass communications in connection with
agricultural shows, field days and demonstrations.
7.    The Agricultural Information Branch consists of AIC and the
Documentation and Library Services. AIC has four sections: (i) publication
and printing; (ii) audio-visual; (iii) radio; and (iv) training. The Center
has a professional and technical staff of 36. It has a fully-equipped
broadcasting studio and produces one radio program five days each week,
another twice weekly and a third weekly. The AIC also has a photography unit
for still photographs and slides for tape and slide presentations. Its Press
Unit produces the MOA newsletter 'Kilimo News' and supplies articles to local
newspapers on agricultural topics. The Technical Information section writes
pamphlets and booklets for farmers, as well as updating the technical handbook
used by frontline staff.
8.    The Farmer Training Branch of AESD consists of a section involved with
the administration of Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) and a Training Program
Section. It is currently staffed by only one officer who is in charge of a
national network of 27 FTCs with a total residential bed capacity of 1,600.
FTCs are currently managed by the DAO of the district in which they are
located. They are headed by a Principal who administers the training program
with the support of a team of inst:;uctors. These specialize in teaching
various subjects such as crop production, animal production, farm management,
and home economics. Currently there is no official establishment of staff at
FTCs; staff are drawn from the general pool of extension workers in a
district. With no official status and inadequate financial support for their
training activities, FTCs have not been able to retain qualified and motivated
teaching staff.
9.    The Home Economics Branch is a key element in MOA's initiative to give a
much greater emphasis to the role of women in agricultural development. The
Branch currently consists of six officers at headquarters. In the field, Home
Economics Officers form part of every team at the provincial, district and



- 54 -
ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
divisional level. The Branch has four sections: (i) food utilization; (ii)
home managements (iii) population education; and (iv) home economics training.
10.   The Youth Program Branch of AESD is responsible for the promotion of 4-K
Clubs in Kenya's primary schools. There are approximately 400 Young Farmers
Clubs and 4,260 4-K Clubs that are assisted by the Branch. The activities of
the Branch have been centered around agricultural production, particularly
horticultural production and the raising of small livestock such as rabbits,
sheep and goats, poultry and bees. In addition, nutrition and population
education is given, together with training on aspects of environmental issues.
Attachment



ORGANIZATION AND REPORTING RELATIONSHIPS VITHIN THE MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Permanent
Secretary
Director                 DExtension           DO Crop.sD  Trainingo                    Fre         DD Agricuiturmi D  Monitoring           DO Research
of Agriculture             Services             Devolopment        A Development     Manageont         Engineering       A Evaluation       Ext. Liaison
Provincial            P Extenoion          P Crops            P Traning n       P Farm  ngt       p Agricultural   P Monitoring a
Director               Coordintor          Dev. Officers      Dv. Officer          Ottier           Engineer           Evaluation
of Agriculture                                                                                          Office  t          Of    r
District              D Exteneion           D Crops           D Training A      D Farm Mngt       D Agricultural    D Monitoring A
Agric. Officer          Coordinator          Dev. Officers      DOv. Officer        Officer          Engineer            Evaluation
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Officer
Divisional Agric|
Extension Office;r
.  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
Locational Agric.
Extension Officer
Frontiin  Extension
Worker
rt
ft 



- 56 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 9
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
TECHNOLOGY
Introduction
1.    For extension to be effective, there must be a range of available
new technology that is technically and economically viable for adoption
by smallholder farmers in the diverse agroclimatic and socio-economic
conditions encountered in Kenya. In this summary, an attempt has been
made to review:
(i)   improved technology, available and in part adopted by
farmers during NEP I;
(ii)  currently available technologies that can be immediately
transmitted by extension; and
(iii) 'pipeline* technology currently being researched with viable
results envisaged on the short-term (say within 5 years).
Haize
2.    The main agroecological zones and rainfall regimes are:
Ci)         the high potential zone with unimodal rainfall pattern
(1000 to 2200mm) between 1600 and 2300m above sea
level (a.s.l);
(ii)        the medium potential zone with bimodal rainfall
pattern (700 to 1800 mm) and lying between 1000 and
2700 m.a.s.l.;
(iii)       the low potential zone with scanty short-duration
rainfall; and
(iv)        the coastal strip, a humid belt with patches of saline
soils.
3.    The four maize breeding programs relevant to these zones are
centered at Kitale, Embu, Katumani and Mtwapa, respectively. Breeding
work at the four centers has produced maize varieties (hybrids and
composites) with much higher yields than local traditional selections.
During NEP I (1982-1990) the following improved varieties and
technologies were available for adoption by farmers in the respective
agroclimatic regions and rainfall regimes.



- 57 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 9
Zone 1. Hybrids H622, H632, H611D, H613D, H6514D and H625. The first
two are suitable for altitudes of 1000-1700m; they have a yield
potential of 80 bags per hectare, while H614D which is suitable for the
same areas as H611D and H613D, has a higher potential yield of 84 bags.
H625 released in 1981 has given yet higher yields of 85 bags per hectare
at research stations. These hybrids give the highest yields when grown
under improved management practices, combined with fertilizer
application.
Zone 2.  Medium maturing hybrids H511 and H512.
Zone 3.  Katumani Composite B has been the only improved maize variety.
Zone 4.  Coast Composite B with a yield potential of 30 bags per hectare
has been grown at the Coast for over twenty years.
Adoption rates for the hybrids and composites have generally been good
under NEP 1. For example, in the Trans Nzola district and the
neighboring districts of Kakamega and Bungoma, adoption rates have been
estimated at 100X for the main crop grown during the long rains.
4.    More recently released materials now ready for farmer adoption in
the different zones are given below.
Zone 1. Hybrid H626, a late maturing double cross hybrid, has a yield
potential of 94 bags per hectare.
Zone 2. Hybrid C78 is in the bulking stage and soon to be released. It
has a better yield potential than Katumani Composite B, is suitable for
the hilly areas of Machakos which have higher rainfall than the
surrounding areas, and is shorter in maturity than H 511.
Zone 3 and 4. One improved composite for each of the two zones is
available. Dryland Composite (also known as Makueni Composite) has the
same yield potential as Katumani Composite B, but has the advantage that
it does well in marginal areas where previously only sorghum could be
grown. Pvani Hybrid I, suitable for the Coastal strip, has a yield
potential of 40 bags per hectare.
5.    Research work in progress would focus on breeding  for shorter
maize plants with stronger stalks and deep roots. Breeding for disease
resistance is receiving increased attention as is resistance to insect
pests. The national maize breeders have started a collaborative IPM
programe with ICIPE to incorporate plant resistance to insect pests
into recommended hybrids and composites, with particular emphasis to
maize stalk borers. In Zones 2, 3 and 4, screening of collections from
CIMMYT for tolerance to drought and physiological adaptation to
conditions in the marginal areas and of the coastal soils continues. In
Zone 3, selection work in Makueni and Katumani Composites will be
continued to get higher yielding materials that can be grown in the
drier marginal areas.



- 58 -
Annex 6
Page 3 of 9
Beans
6.    Screening for high yields among landraces and pure lines has
produced GLP2 (Rose Coco) and GLP24 (Canadian Wonder). These varieties
were released in the early 809 and are now in use by many farmers.
Recommended practices differ considerably between beans grown as sole
crops or as inter-crops with maize (the farmers' common practice).
Under the latter condition, recommendations for fertilizer application
and weed control are similar to maize. Recently concluded on-farm
trials show that intercropping results in increased farm income,
particularly in the medium potential zone.
Wheat
7.    With a long history of wheat research, there are currently 16
recommended bread varieties with potential yields varying between 23 and
36 bags per hectare. Husbandry practices that facilitate high yields
are: fine seedbed; early planting; a seedrate of about 110 kg/ha
certified wheat seed; compound fertilizer to supply 20-40 kg N and 40-
70 kg P205 with lime application (1-3 tonnes/ha) on acid soils; and
herbicides for weed control. Three new varieties are in the bulking
stage and ready for release; these are Chiriku, Pasa and Mirembe.
8.    Few small-scale farmers are involved in wheat growing because the
recommended technologies are suitable mostly for large scale mechanized
farms. Appropriate farm equipment and tools for land preparation, weed
control and harvesting operations for smallholders have not been
developed - consequently many small farmers have resorted to growing
maize in the former wheat areas, despite the fact that the price of
wheat is more attractive. As a result of non-adoption of improved
management practices, small farmers' yields still remain low, less than
1000 kg or 10 bags per hectare, when the average yields obtained on
research stations are in excess of 25 bags per ha. Research on
technology for smallholders is being strengthened under NARP.
9.    Many years research on wheat rusts has yielded fairly resistant
varieties, hence breeding for rust resistance will be given lower
priority. Because of continued use of acidifying fertilizers and the
practice of monoculture, wheat soils have become acidic (low pH)
resulting in declining yields. Particularly for smallholders, liming is
not an effective way of ameliorating the situation, so breeding for
tolerance to soil acidity is now a high priority. As for drought
tolerance, continued expansion of wheat growing into marginal areas e.g.
Hasai and Samburu, requires varieties that do well under low and erratic
rainfall. A new disease, Barley Yellow Dwarf Virus (BYDV) has broken
out recently in wheat areas. Its control is an important research
objective.
Sorghum
10.   The Kakamega (Alupe) Research Center has recommended the following
varieties for cultivation in Western Kenya, Serena, Seredo, E522HY,



- 59 -
Annex 6
Page 4 of 9
Dobbs Bora. These varieties, under good management, yield 5.0 to 6.5
tonnes of grain per ha. as against the yields of the local selections,
Livoywa, Estuti, and Ikhuba yield between 2.5 and 3.5 tonnes per ha. At
Katumani, the following new seeds were developeds Serena KAT 369,
2Rx17, and Makueni Improved. These have yield potentials of 2.0 to 3.0
tonnes per ha. Recommendations for husbandry practices stress: early
land preparation and planting; plant populations of about 100,000
plants/ha in Western Kenya and 40,000 to 80,000 in drier areas;
fertilizer application and weed control. Adoption rates for improved
sorghum production technology have been disappointing partly due to a
failure to match seed characteristics to farmers' preference.
11.   Three new and promising sorghum varieties, IS8527, IS8193 and
E1291 are currently undergoing national performance trials. These will
be released within the next two years. An aggressive breeding programme
for the improvement of sorghum has been developed by KARI with the
assistance of the USAID. It is expected that the technologies generated
will result in viable recommendations which, when adopted will
substantially improve the productivity of sorghum as a food Lrop.
§.arcane
12.   During Phase I of the National Extension Project, the following
varieties were available for adoption by small-scale farmers and the
nucleus estates of the sugar companies: MC0376; C0776; C01148 and
C0331. These varieties were moderate yielders of 100 - 120 tonnes per
hectare. A later selection C0995 has a better yield but becomes pithy
when harvested late. Improved recommended practices include those on
seed rates (7 tonnes/ha hot water treated) setts, an average fertilizer
application of 100 kg of N per ha applied as Urea or DAP, three to four
weedings and harvesting at about 20 months. Adoption rates of
smallhjlders (and yields) lag considerably behind those of nucleus
estates.
13.   The period between 1970 and now has witnessed concerted efforts in
developing improved varieties of sugarcane. Today the following
varieties are at various stages of bulking before release for general
commercial planting: EAK 69-40, EAK 69-41, EAK 70-76, EAK 71-402 and
EAK 71-619. These varieties have reasonable cane quality and yield as
well as the standard C0421. Further breeding work ha led to the
development of additional high yielding varieties e.g. KEN 82-242 and
KEN 82-837. These outyield C0421 by about 5-10Z but show high
susceptibility to smut. The planned work in sugarcane research
therefore focusses on developing sugarcane varieties with improved
resistance to smut.
Oilseed Crops
14.   Despite the fact that Kenya imports large quantities of vege..ole
oil and has a favorable climate for production of oilseed crops,
research on these crops has not received high priority. Sunflower is
perhaps the only crop for which some research has been done and the



- 60 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 9
following varieties have been recommended for general growing: Fedha,
HOO1, H0008, H894 and H898.
15.   Improved varieties earmarked for release for general cultivation
in the near future are: KENSUM 22, KENSUH 33 and SUPER 400. Other
oilseed crops that have received some attention in the form of
evaluation of introduced varieties include: rapeseed, simsim,
soyabean, groundnuts and castor. Selections of these crops are grown by
farmers using traditional practices as research has not yet generated
improved agronomic practices. A limiting factor is the absence of
certified seed, hence farmers use poor seed resulting in low yields.
Lack of assured market is also a major constraint to increased oil seed
crop production.
Root and Tuber Crops
16.   Of the major root and tubers crops grown in Kenya, potato (Solanum
tuberosum) received most research attention during the last two decades.
The National Potato Research Centre, Tigoni, was established in the
1970s. Although cassava diseases have been investigated intermittently,
particularly during the days of the East African Community, cassava and
sweet potatoes, the two well-known subsistence crops, were seriously
focussed on by research, only since the publication of the National Food
Policy in 1981. Cassava selection studies have resulted in a few
cassava cultivars being recommended for growing in the various cassava
growing areas, i.e. Kibandameni, Garimushi and Kasimbiji for the Coast;
Serere, 12200 and Tamizi for Western Province; and Mucericeri and KMEI
for the marginal areas of Eastern Province.
17.   In the case of sweet potatoes, small-scale farmers grow
traditional or local selections, for instance in Western Kenya, Toilo
and Musinya are popular varieties. Diseases are perhaps the main
constraints to increased production of potatoes. Unlike the main cereal
crops (maize and wheat) where research is supported by an active and
highly organized seed industry, potatoes do not as yet benefit from such
organized support.
18.   Ten cassava and five sweet potato selections are undergoing
performance trials and those that perform well might be available for
general growing within the next three years. Timely availability of
seeding material of the right quality has been a major constraint to the
farmers' adoption of improved technology in potato. This is partly due
to shortage of good storages. This problem is now being addressed.
Improved potato storage techniques developed by the International Center
for Potato Research and demonstrated in Kenya to be economic, can now be
passed on to farmers. In the immediate future, increased production of
these three crops will also be facilitated by further innovations in
storage, processing and utilization. In addition, marketing
arrangements will receive attention.



- 61 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 9
Horticultural CroRs
19.   The limited resources that have been allocated to horticultural
research, have been used to undertake germplasm introduction and testing
for adaptation to local conditions. Through this process, a large
number of fruit and vegetable varieties suitable for growing in the
various agroecological zones have been identified and the improved
agronomic practices needed to obtain high yields determined.
Cotton
20.   During the last forty years, cotton research has not been accorded
high priority. During the period 1982-1990, the following improved
varieties of cotton were available for general planting: BPA 75 is
recommended for Western Kenya, particularly for Busia, Bungoma and Siaya
districts; UKA 591240, for the Coastal strip, East of the Rift Valley
and South Nyanza; and UPA (IL62) for the Taita/Taveta areas. These
varieties were selected on the basis of cotton yield, quality of fibre,
pest and disease resistance or tolerance. UKA 59/240 and UPA (IL62)
have been grown by farmers for a long time while BPA 75 was released
only in 1980 as a replacement of BPA 68. Only one promising variety,
KSA 81M is currently ready for release for general cultivation.
21.   Work in progress lays emphasis on:  (i) intercropping studies (ii)
fertilizer application and (iii) weed and insect pest control. Work on
biological control of the African bollworm, Helicoverpa armipera is
yielding encouraging results. The intercropping studies are addressing
one of the major constraints to improved cotton production i.e. late
planting. Late planting which is practiced by most small scale farmers
results in yield loss of 50Z or more. It is practiced because farmers
give preference to food crops. If an improved intercropping system for
cotton and cereals were evolved, it would help substantially increase
yields of cotton. Regional Research Centers, which are being developed
under HARP, would address such issues and with a strengthened extension
system, it would be possible to make farmers adopt intercropping of
cotton with foodcrops.
Pyrethrum
22.   The main objective of pyrethrum research is the development of
varieties and clones with high flower yields and pyrethrin content and
good agronomic traits over a wide range of agroclimatic environments.
Farmers have a choice of growing either varieties or clones. Clones are
more uniform and earlier in their flowering than the varieties.
Varietal and clonal planting materials are supplied by the Phrethrun
Board of Kenya, a body responsible for processing and marketing
pyrethrum products. For over 18 years, only one variety (P4) was being
grown by the farmers; recently, however, two additional varieties, K218
and K235, have been released for general cultivation.



- 62 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 9
Pastures, Grasses and Legumes
23.   The National Agricultural Research Centre at Kitale plays the lead
role in pasture research and development. The major pasture agro-
ecological zones based on rainfall regimes and altitude are shown in the
table below.
Pasture Species Adapted for Various Agro-Econological Zones
ZONE                ALTITUDE      ANNUAL                     PASTURE SPECIES RECOMMENDED
RAINFALL            GRASSES              LEGUMES/FODDER/TREES
1. Hot and Wet      0-15CM        1000-1270mm   1. Likoni Guinea Grass     1. Siratro (M. atropurpureus)
Coastal Strip                                2. Glyeine wightiI
*.g. Utwapa                                  8. Leuceena loucocephala
4. Prosopis Jul iflore
2. Dry Coastal      150-900ki     635-1OOOM     1. Makuani Guinoa Grace    1. Glycine wighttt
Interland                                    2. C-nchrus ciIlaris        2. Stylo (Stylosanthese
e.g. Taveta                                                                     guyansensis)
3. Leucasna loucocephala
a. Dry Medium       900-19sM    6836-1000C      1. Makuant Guinea Gross    1. Stylosanthso. guyanonsis
Altitudo                                     2. Rhode* gross             2. Glycine wightil
e.g. Katumani                                3. Coloured Guinea         a. Leucasnn loutocephola
4. Prosopsis julilflora
4. Wet MedIum       900-196CM     1000-2640mm   1. Rhodes Graoss (Elaba)   1. Deasodium uneinatum
Altittude                                    2. Nandi Setnria (Nashwa)    2. Deamodium tntortum
e.g. Eabu                                    3. Brachiaria ruziziensis    3. Leuceena loucocephala
4. Stylosanthose guyanonsis
5. Dry High         1980-2460M    636-10000o    1. Boma Rhodos Grass       1. Kenya White Clover
Altitude                                     2. Pokot Rhodes Grass       2. Louisiana White Clovor
e. g. Elodret
6. Wet High         1980-24SOM    1000-2640m    1. Kikuyu Grass            1. Louisiana White Clover
Altitude                                     2. Nandi Starna Grass       2. Kenya White Clover
*.g. Morima                                  3. Rhodes Gross
7. Wet Sub-Alpine    2460-O6o0    1000-2540am   1. Kikuyu Grass            1. Louisiana White Clover
*.g. Molo                                    2. Rye Grass                2. Subterranean Clover
S. Cockefoot
24.   Many cultivated fodders have been introduced and tested in the
various zones. These include Napier grass varieties, hybrid sorghum,
sweet potatoes, turnips, oats, lucerne, maize, columbus grass, etc.
Napier grass, however, is the most commonly used fodder for both small
and large scale farmers. Several varieties and cultivars have wide
adaptation and grow in most of the high rainfall areas. The yield
potential is variable depending on environmental conditions but ranges
from 11-40 tons DM/ha. Recommended husbandry practices for a number of
these fodder are being extended to farmers.
25.   Improved pastures and fodders have been increasingly adopted by
small scale farmers. Trends in seed sales have increased as well as



- 63 -
Annex 6
Page 8 of 9
area planted to fodders and general use of processed feeds.   Further
research york on the identification and evaluation of promising local
and introduced pasture plants and fodders for higher dry matter
productivity, quality, and drought tolerance for zones 1 - 4 is in
progress.
Dairy Production
26.   The dairy sector is currently dominated by the small scale farmers
contr'buting 752 of total output. The major technologies which have
enhanced expansion can be attributed to the following factors: (i)
improved breeds; (ii) adequate feeding for both maintenance and
production functions; regular calving interval; (iii)) control of
external parasites; and (iv) hygienic milk production with a milking
shade.
27.   Zero grazing technology has increasingly gained in adoption and
about 100,000 units are now in place. Recent surveys show that the
adoption rate recomAended by the National Dairy Development Project
(NDDP) packages was 602 (in Kericho District). Silage and hay making
are widely done by the large scale commercial farmers using modern
equipment but are as yet to be adopted by small scale farmers. Clean
milk production is widely practiced. New research on cheaper gruel for
pre-weaned calfs to reduce mortality and improve growth rates is in
progress. Cheaper silage and hay making techniques are being
investigated. Tick resistance to acaricides is also an important area
of research.
Beef Production
28.   Research and development coupled with adaptation of imported
technology for beef production has resulted in the development and
recommendation of animal management systems for increased production,
including use of A.I.; dipping to control tick borne diseases;
planting of nutritive pastures and fodders; oversowing natural grasses
with legume pastures; provision of water facilities, improvement of
health services and the raising of Sahiwal and Boran smallholder Zebu
herds.
29.   Most commercial ranches have adopted use of improved breeds and
management. However, 752 of the rangelands practice traditional
pastoral range livestock systems on overrazed natural pastures. The
major research focus is on better utilization of rangelands and
increased productivity from natural pastures with mineral
supplementation for improved nut iP4"n. Efforts to eradicate tsetse fly
and to increase available grazir.       coupled with trypanocidal
treatment and use of various traps ".e continuing. The male sterile
insect technique, aerial and ground spraying, and bush clearing coupled
with human settlement are approaches also being tested in collaborative
research efforts by KETRI and MOLD.



- 64 -
Annex 6
Page 9 of 9
Sheep and Goats
30.   For goats the following breeds are availablet
Meat: Galla goats and Boer East African.
Milk: Toenburghs and Anglo Nubian and crosses with Galla and East
African have proved productive in the high potential areas.
31.   Recommended sheep breeds (for meat) are:  Dorper and Red Masai.
Wool sheep are found in the cooler highlands; four breeds, Romney
Marsh. Hampshire Down, Corriedale and Romney Marsh Hampshire Down have
been recommended. Demand for improved brees far outnumbers the
availability of good animals. About 1500 - 2000 breeding bucks are now
made available to farmers annually. Future planned research by the
Small Ruminant Cooperative Support Project at Naivasha and Maseno is
directed at developing a dual purpose milk goat from Toggenburg X Galla.
Poultry
32.   Three production systems are available according to ability and
choice of the farmer:   *Free range', 'slatted housing', and 'deep
litter'. Pure breeds consist of White Leghorn, White Sussex, Rhode
Island Red and Black Australorp. Collaborative research by KARI at
Naivasha supported by the National Poultry Development Project focusses
its attention on the following aspects:
(i)         Cheaper non-conventional feed rations;
(ii)        Efficient feeding equipment;
(iii)       Appropriate and cheaper poultry housing systems;  and
(iv)        Evaluation of quality and performance of various
commercially marketed poultry feeds for broiler and
egg production.
Beekeeping and Honey Production
33.   The recommended cultural practices for beekeeping management vary
seasonally but include: (i) colony establishment period 2 months before
bloom; (ii) preparation period 1 month before bloom; (iii) at the
beginning of bloom period the hive is expanded and poor swarms united;
(iv) during bloom period the hive is opened and expanded; and (v) after
bloom, the honey is harvested and diseases and pests checked. The Kenya
Top Bar hive (KTBH) is 15 - 20 times more efficient than the traditional
hive. Honey yield per hive is 30 - 40 kg/year and 3.5 kg beewax.
Traditional hives have corresponding yields of 2 kg and 1/2 kg of honey
and wax respectively. An intensive effort is being made by the
extension staff to transmit the KTBH technology to farmers; this would
be continued under NEP II.



- 65 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ON EXTENSION BETWEEN KARI, MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK
DEVELOPMENT.
Close cooperation between the staff of the Line Ministries in charge of
extension and KARI, which carries responsibility for agricultural research, is
essential to ensure:
(i)   The development of technology appropriately tailored to diverse
agroclimatic and socio-economic conditions of farmers in Kenya;
and
(ii) The regular training of extension staff in relevant subjects and
the effective dissemination of information on improved practices
for agricultural and livestock production to farmers.
In order to facilitate the required collaboration, GOK has recently
established a National Forum to coordinate, guide and supervise cooperative
activities and also to ensure the timely submission of requests for the
required funding. The Forum consists of representatives of the Line
Ministries, KARI, the Agricultural Universities and other concerned
Institutions. It has in addition, been agreed between the Line Ministries and
KARI that during the project period of NEP II, they are committed to ensuring
the implementation of the actions outlined for each Agency below:
The Ministry of Agriculture has accepted responsibility to:
(1)   Provide for coordination and oversight of research/extension interaction
and the contribution of extension to research through DDA
Research/Extension, and provide adequate resources in terms manpower and
facilities to execute this task.
(2)   Ensure participation of agricultural extension SMS in the regular
meetings of RRCACs (see KARI below) as agreed between the Director of
each RRC and the concerned District DAOs of the RC mandate area.
(3)   Make all required arrangements for the regular extension workshops,
including timely requests for inputs by specific research staff.
(4)   Ensure the participation of District (and Provincial) SMS and of other
senior staff in the diagnostic surveys by the District Farming Systems
Teams (DFSTS).



- 66 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 4
(5)   Strengthen Professional Groups of SMSs and experts in main subject
matter areas important to agricultural extension and make arrangements
for necessary consultative meetings involving staff from KARI, the
Agricultural Universities and other organizations.
(6)   Give funds through an authority to incur expenditure (A.I.E) to KARI to
enable KARI to undertake extension training, and other specified
activities such as on-farm trials, demonstrations etc. agreed on between
the two parties.
(7)   Facilitate the publication end dissemination of extension messages
(bulletins, farmers handouts, posters, radio-broadcasts etc) through the
Agricultural Information Center (AIC).
KARI has accepted responsibility to:
(1)   Provide for the coordination and oversight of research/extension
interaction and contribution of research to extension through the
Assistant Director, Regional Research Centers, and provision of adequate
resources in terms of manpower and facilities to execute this.
(2)   Ensure attendance of research scientists (with specializations as
requested by the DAO) to assist in training in specific subject matter
areas and to promote feedback at the regular district level extension
workshops in the mandate areas of each RRC.
(3)   KARI researchers to participate in the DFSTs charged with the joint
(between researchers, extensionists and farmers) diagnosis of existing
priority production constraints as a basis for research priority setting
at each RRC.
(4)   Assign to each RRC a specific task with regard to building a network of
on-farm trials/demonstrations and for the joint (between researchers and
extensionists) operation, monitoring and evaluation of results.
(5)   Each RRC to organize a pre-seasonal meeting (at least once a year) of
the Regional Research Center Advisory Committee involving
representatives of research, extension, farmers and other concerned
local organizations to review and examine the relevance and impact of
research and extension programs and to make recormendations for
improvement.
(6)   NRCs, and RRCs to organize special technical courses for extension SMSs
in specific subjects such as horticulture, livestock, integrated pest
management, etc. under the coordination of AD/RRC.
(7)   Make arrangements for an annual estimate of the costs of KARI activities
in support of extension (training and on-farm trials) for submission to
the Line Ministries in time for the annual budget cycle to enable
issuance of the necessary funds by the Ministries.



- 67 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 4
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING
ON EXTENSION BETWEEN MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AND KARI
Close cooperation between the staff of the Line Ministries in charge of
extension and KARI, which carries responsibility for agricultural research, is
essential to ensure:
(i)      The development of technology appropriately tailored
to diverse agroclimatic and socio-economic conditions
of farmers in Kenya; and
(ii)      The regular training of extension staff in relevant
subjects and the effective dissemination of
information on improved practices for agricultural and
livestock production to farmers.
In order to facilitate the required collaboration, GOK will establish a
National Forum to coordinate, guide and supervise cooperative activities and
also to ensure the timely submission of requests for funding. The Forum will
consist of representatives of the Line Ministries, KARI, the Agricultural
Universities and other concerned Institutions. It has in addition, been
agreed between the Line Ministries and KARI that (during the project period of
NEP II), they will be committed to ensuring the implementation of the actions
outlined for each Agency below in respect of NEP II and farming system
Approach to Research & Extension Project.
KARI has accepted responsibility to:
Cl)   Provide for the coordination and oversight of research/extension
interaction and contribution of research to extension through the
Regional Research Centers, and provision of adequate resources in terms
of manpower and facilities to execute this.
(2)   Ensure attendance of research scientists (with specializations as
requested by the NEP II) to assist in training in specific subject
matter areas and to promote feedback at the regular district level
extension workshops in the mandate areas of each RRC.
(3)   KARI researchers to participate in the diagnostic surveys (which
includes members from MOLD, MOA) charged with the joint (between
researchers, extensionists and farmers) diagnosis of existing priority
production constraints as a basis for research priority setting at each
RRC.
(4)   Assign to each RRC a specific task with regard to building a network of
on-farm trials/demonstrations, and for the joint (between researchers
and extensionists) operation, monitoring and evaluation of results.



- 68 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 4
(5) Each ARC to organize a meeting (at least once a year) of the Regional
Research Center Advisory Committees involving representatives of
research, extension, farmers and other concerned local organizations to
review and examine the relevance and impact of research and extension
programs and to make recommendations for improvement.
(6) NRCs, and RRCs to participate in special technical courses for extension
SMSs in specific subjects such as horticulture, livestock, integrated
pest management, etc. within mandate area, such courses to be conducted
by institutions of higher learning. The courses will be organized by
the line Ministries.
(7) Make arrangements for an annual estimate of the cost of KARI activities
in support of extension (training and on-farm trials) for submission to
the MOF in time for the annual budget cycle to enable issuance of the
necessary funds by the Treasury.
The Ministry of Livestock Development has accepted responsibility to:
(1) Provide for coordination and oversight of research/extension interaction
and contribution of extension to research through the Deputy/Director/
Livestock Extension and research liaison, and provide adequate resources
in terms of manpower and facilities to execute this task.
(2) Ensure participation of livestock SMS in the regular meetings of the
RRCACs (see above) as agreed between the Director of each RRC and the
concerned District Livestock Production Officer of the PRC mandate area.
(3) Making all required arrangements for the regular extension workshops
including timely requests for Inputs by specific research staff and
other Agencies.
(4) Ensure the participation of District (and Provincial) SMSs and of other
senior staff in the diagnostic surveys by the Research and Extension
Staff.
(5) Strengthen the professional groups of SMSs in areas important to
extension for livestock production and make arrangements for regular
consultative meetings involving staff from KARI, the
Agricultural/Veterinary/Colleges and Universities and other similar
organizations.
(6) Give funds through an authority to incur expenditure (A.I.E) to KARI to
enable KARI to undertake extension training, and other specified
activities such as on-farm trials, demonstrations etc. agreed on between
the two parties.
(7)   Facilitate the publication and dissemination of extension messages
(bulletins, farmers handouts, posters, radio broadcasts, etc), through
the Agricultural Information Center (AIC) and any other printing agency.



- 69 -                                         ANNEX 7
KENYA                                          Attachment
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
IWINAPP RlSEaaoF mTESIo LIAISON STRUCTUE
Tasks/Goa ls                    Interaction/   Composition/            other Inputs            Load
Activity       Particleonte            from                    ResDoneIbblity
Deciding major thrusts   National Forum        Directors                                       Directors MOA
Proposing/allocating      on Re_erch/          KARI, MOA, MOLD                                 and MOLD
rerources                  Extension           MENR, MRDASAW,           -----------
Rexolving policy/          Linkage             and KARI DD              National
implementation Issues                                                 ICo_modity/
-- Crops/LIvestock --       Livestock  I
I Comitte   I
DA (lOA) DOP (MOLD)    -----------
Chair (rotate)
AD. RRC Secretary
Organize/budget                KARi                                                            ODA/Agr. Ext.
coordinate/                 MOA / MOLD                                                         DDL/Livestock Ext.
supervise agency            Headquarters                                                       ODA - REC MOA, MOLD
participation                                                                                  ETC. AD-PRE KARI
Prov. Dir. Agr
Approve RRC Proams             RRC             Director RRC              ----------------
(on-station/on-farm)         Advisory          Senior RRC Scientists   Professional            Director
Review results               Coemittees                                      croup.             RRC
Resolve bottlenecks                         --- District AOs              Distriet Farming
Launch  FST                                                               Systems Teas
diagnostic teams                               Farmer/Input              ----------------
Sales/Credit
Marketing Reps
Schedule workshops         District/RRC                                                        RRC Extension
Decide focus/content       Research/                                                           Liaison Officer
Organize participation    Extension                                                            District Extension
Ensure *nnouncsmsnt        Liaison Teams                                                       Coordinators
Publish proceedings                                                                            (MOA A MOLD)
Schedule  FSTs
Constraint
Identification/            Joint FSTo          Researchers                                     Director
analysis/                                      Extensionists                                   RRC
resolution.                                    Farmers
Recommendations
Review extension
feedback                                       DAO, DLO                Represntatives          DAO
Decide main                Rgular              District SHS            Input., Credit          DLO
recommendations            Workshop            Divisional SMS          Marketing
Planning farm trials                           RRC (and NRC)            arore?s (part-time)
Planning d-monstratioss                        Scientists
Organising field days
Evaluation farm
trials
field extension
Extension                   Monthly            Staff MOA, MOLD                                 District Extension
training                    Training           SUS MOA                                         Coordinators
SMS MOLD                                       MOA, MOLD
Technology
adaptation/                  Farm              Reserchers              Farmers                 Director RRC
veritication                 Trials            Extensioniste                                   DAO
DLO
Technology adoption       Demonstrations       Extensionists           Farmer                  DA
Far_mr training                                                                                OLO



- 70 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
EXTENSION TRAINING
Introduction
1.    During NEP I, many different types of training were supported.  These
broadly fell into the categories of *basic" or "general, training before
employment in the extension service, "regular" extension training (such as
monthly workshops) and win-service' training on special topics. The training
after induction in the service included orientation courses for all staff,
monthly workshops for Subject Matter Specialists (SMS) and researchers,
fortnightly training sessions for frontline extension workers, communication
methodology courses for junior and middle level staff, specialized and
refresher courses, study tours and post-graduate courses. NEP I also
introduced the idea of "Professional Groups" in which specialists in main
subject matter areas interacted and were provided with training. Under NEP
II, the training program in support of extension would be continued and
reinforced.
Pre-employment Training of Extension Staff
2.    For supply of extension staff, MOA and MOLD rely on: graduates from the
Universities of Nairobi, Egerton, and Moi; diplomates from Egerton College and
the Jomo Kenyatta Colleges of Agriculture and Technology; and Certificate
holders from Embu, Bukura, Coast Institutes of Agriculture and the various
AHITIs (for animal health). The policy of the government in the past was to
employ all graduates from all training institutions. By end 1989 that policy
was changed. Currently the Extension Services Division of MOA engages about
60? of the graduates.   The rest are absorbed elsewhere in the agricultural
sector. Many of the newly recruited technical officers (TOs) are now being
deployed to locational levels where they supervise, guide and give technical
support to a team of 5-6 frontline extension workers. It is understood that
the ultimate aim is to have TOs posted at frontline level which is consistent
with the need to have more competent frontline extension workers as farmers
continue to require more sophisticated technology. Thus, significant training
to upgrade TAS to the TO level will be required.
Monthly Workshops and Fortnightly Training Sessions
3.    Under NEP I, there was regular monthly and fortnightly training.  About
90? of the training has taken place although there were occasional disruptions
due to inadequate operational budgets. The monthly workshops have proved to
be the most effective linkage with research. NEP 1I will continue to provide
for monthly workshops to be held involving researchers and SMSs in each
district to discuss technical recommendations relevant to field operations by



- 71 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 5
farmers in the following month. The workshops have provided a forum for
researchers and SMS. to discuss farmers' problems in the field, farmer
reaction to new research recommendations and the need for research in
problematic subjects. During the latter years of NEP I, the participation of
researchers in these workshops decreased. Intensive efforts are now being
made to correct this situation and put the interaction between research and
extension on a sound footing.
4.    Fortnightly training sessions (FTS) will continue to be held at the
divisional level for all frontline extension workers. This has been and will
continue to be the forum for SMSs to discuss field recommendations for the
next fortnight with frontline workers and to listen and respond to feedback
from farmers. During the dry season, the frequency of FTSs could be changed
to a monthly session although lull periods in crop and/or livestock production
provide an ideal opportunity for special training to be conducted e.g. on
communication and other extension methoo3logy subjects as well as on soil
conservation. Much more effort is required on the practical aspects of
training and less on theory. More time and planning will be needed to
facilitate this change.
In-service Training
5.    There are four main types of in-service training planned under NEP II:
(a)   Orientation Training.  Every year new staff will be given
orientation training on the role and functioning of the extension
service. As new staff join the service, induction and orientation
workshops are conducted for them at district or provincial level
according to their number. In the past, research officers were not
given adequate orientation on the working of the extension service
and the part they are expected to play in strengthening of the
linkages between the two institutions. Recent formal interaction
between research (KARI) and extension (MOA and MOLD) have started
a process of collaboration in all aspects of research-extension
linkages. A series of joint workshops have been planned with the
purpose of orienting both extension and research staff in each
others' programs and to clarify the mutual expectations of staff
involvement and their specific roles. These workshops are planned
as an annual activity aimed at new and veteran medium to senior
grade officers.
(b)   URgrading Training.  To upgrade professional competence of
extension staff in various disciplines, grants from various donor
agencies have been utilized to train staff. Although most of the
training in the past has been done with non-project funds, the
trained staff have largely benefitted the extension service.
(c)  Short Specialized Technical Courses.  The SMSs are not yet
specialists in the real sense of the word. They cover a wide
range of subjects relating to farmers' production needs. In the
past they have been able to answer most of the farmers production
problems adequately. With improved extension services and better



- 72 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 5
extension linkages with research, demand for more specialized
technology is evolving. In order to keep pace with this demand
for specialized technology, MOA attempts to train SMSs in short
specialized courses locally and overseas. Such courses cover home
economics, soil conservation, horticulture, coffee husbandry and
general principles of management. Specialized courses may last
from two weeks to three months. A considerable number of staff
would be expected to participate in such courses under NEP II.
(d)   Communication Training.  NEP II aims to further strengthen the
extension service through improved communication skills training
for extension workers. This applies to communications between
research and extension staff, extension staff among themselves,
and between extension staff and farmers.   This training would
include the skills of conducting discussions, lectures,
demonstrations to groups and individuals. The need for more
effort to be made in the mastering of such skills was clearly
identified during NEP I. Better performance in this field would
enable extension staff to effectively transfer both theoretical
and practical know-how to individuals or to groups.
6.    The training of extension workers in communication skills is regarded by
MOA as a major role for the Agricultural Information Center (AIC) which runs
courses every year for groups of 20 participants. With support from ODA, the
AIC has recently completed a video supported training package on the subject
of communication and teaching methodology. MOA has completed the preparation
of an extension methodology manual in which the subject of communication
features prominently. This manual was prepared within the framework of the
USAID supported crop post-harvest management program which works with the
extension service. A large number of extension staff requires this kind of
training and a concerted effort is needed. The resources of AIC, Egerton and
other universities will be used to train trainers, within the extension
service, who in turn would conduct extension methodclogy courses at district
and divisional level. These same trainers would be instrumental in training
research staff who also require communication skills in their efforts to
transfer technology.
7.    To cater for the rising need to provide extension staff and farmers with
more specialized technical training, NEP II will include the appointment of an
officer at senior management level so that a more concerted effort can be made
tot
(a)   Identify all the specialized training needs of extension staff;
(b)   Critically assess the local facilities for providing such
specialized training and to determine the required resources for
establishing such facilities where they do not exist;
(c)   Work out comprehensive annual programs for providing specialized
training to all staff



- 73 -
ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 5
NEP II has made provision for covering the cost of such training and for the
improvement of training facilities and equipment.
Professional Groups
8.    Professional specialization groups were established in 1986 with the
purpose of grouping together SMSs in one specific commodity or group of
commodities and conducting activities that would upgrade staff in their
specific area of specialization and discipline and enhance the agricultural
enterprises they were responsible for. Relevant research staff joined these
groups thereby forming one more link with extension. Groups were established
in most of the provinces and included those for crops, home economics, soil
conservation and animal production. Some of the groups split up into
sub-groups for various activities such as for the review of technical
recommendations. Many activities and responsibilities were envisaged for the
professional groups. They included:
(a)   review of extension recommendations to farmers;
(b)   planning and implementation of on-farm trials and observation
plots;
(c)   preparation of hand-outs containing recommendations for the use of
frontline staff and farmers (to be printed by AIC of by district
office facility);
(d)   provision of feedback to research on farmer reaction to newly
recommended farm practices or field events of specific interest;
(e)   preparation of guidelines for the district annual extension
program;
(f)   definition of training needs for upgrading of frontline staff: and
(g)   acting as facilitators at district monthly workshops.
During NEP I the above tasks were partially accomplished through; visits to
relevant research stations; joint visits to farmers fields to examine on-farm
trials, observation plots, and other subjects of interest. Implementation of
the professional group activities was initially very good but owing to
constraints in transport and allowances, the frequencies of meetings decreased
throughout 1987. Researchers cooperated well but there was no commitment on
their part and they did not regard themselves as partners in the operation.
Several SMS were found to lack leadership qualities and the required
initiative to effectively guide the groups.
9.    The professional groups will continue to be the focus of important
training activities as well as representing another essential link with the
research establishment. In line with the operation of KARI's regional
research centers (RRCs), the professional groups under NEP II will be
reorganized on the basis of the mandate area of each RRC (around 4-5



- 74 -
ANNEX S
Page 5 of 5
districts). This vill enable the formation of smaller and more manageable
groups that would have good contacts with the research center that addresses
the problems of the area and from which researchers will join the groups in
their vork.



- 75 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Organization
1.    For a monitoring system to be effective, monitoring data must be
demanded by all levels of management. Unless this demand is forthcoming M&E
will continue to be supply-led and ineffective. Under the Project, management
at all levels will be made aware, through appropriate orientation courses, of
the necessity of timely and accurate monitoring data to ensure efficient
managerial practices. The information needs at different management levels
must be identified, and systems designed for their transmittal (paras 4-6).
Evaluation results of the overall system should be used by researchers to
redirect work programs, by policy analysts to do projections and plan support
services, and by extension management to modify extension methodologies.
2.    The central M&E Units will be augmented, to permit a greater focus on
extension. To achieve national coverage, the present rigid tying of
investigator staff to a specific district must be changed. A system of
provincial M&E teams supervised by a unit of three officers in the
Headquarters M&E Units, will be developed. For a provincial based M&E team to
service district and provincial managements effectively, a strong commitment
is required on the part of the managerial cadre. The importance of a regular
flow of objective data must be recognized and there must be a willingness by
senior management to hold line managers accountable for maint&ining adequate
records of such monitoring indicators.
3.    A greater effort will be made to generate information within the course
of normal extension work. Frontline staff will be obliged to complete
logbooks or, alternatively, farmers will be provided with visitors' books that
will be completed by staff on each visit, together with any advice given. The
adoption of a farm-household systems approach to extension will facilitate the
gathering of primary data on the impact of new technology, since it will
stress an experimental interaction at the farm level, rather than didactic
approach of transferring fixed messages. The whole system of on-farm trials,
starting at the level of experiments on T&V plots between frontline staff and
farmers and going to the level of controlled trials by staff of RRCs in
cooperation with district Subject Matter Specialists, would be subject to
physical and financial analysis.
4.    Information Planning Exercise.  An information planning exercise would
be undertaken to identify the information systems which are needed to support
the objectives of the extension service, and provide top management with the
data necessary to support decision making. The information planning exercise
would outline how to arrive at the optimal information system using available
financial and organizational resources. The exercise would also show how the
extension service can benefit from developments in information technology.



- 76 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 2
5.    A considerable amount of information about the extension service is
necessary in order to design an effective information strategy. Specifically,
the following aspects are important: the objectives and critical success
factors; readily available data; the functions of the extension service;
informational support currently provided to extension; the information needs
of extension; and the effectiveness of current information systems in meeting
information needs. Knowledge about these aspects of the extension system will
permit the selection of areas of the extension service which should be
a.nalyzed in greater detail, leading towards the development of new information
systems.
6.    The actual information planning would take roughly 15 weeks.  An
additional two weeks are planned for training three staff members from HOA.
The training would be done by two external experts. During the period of the
actual planning activity one expert will be supervising the process. Every
three weeks there would be an evaluation to assess the progress. The training
of three members of staff is important for: (a) fast access to other members
of the organization; and (b) training them during the first planning session
to do follow-up studies. Follow-up studies are necessary every two or three
years or after a major change in the organization. Because all information
gathered during the first information planning will be stored in a computer
system it will be easy to adjust all diagrams and tables to represent a new
situation. A follow-up study will normally take no more than 3 to 4 weeks.
Pilot Project
7.    To implement the technological recommendations that come out of the
information planning exercise and to strengthen monitoring of the extension
system, a computer based system would be set up on a pilot basis in four
divisions of two districts with AIC serving as the coordination center.
The purpose of the pilot project will be to train staff in the extension
service in the use of computers for data communications. This training will
help staff use computers in their work. Training will be provided in
wordprocessing, database and spreadsheet use, and data-communications.
Training in wordprocessing and database management can be done by the Kenya
Institute for Administration (KIA). Staff at AIC or KIA can be trained in
data communications and in the use and maintenance of communications software.
After this training either AIC or KIA will be able to train other staff in
using communication software.



- 77 -
ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENsION PROJECT
Farmer Service Centers
1.    The project proposes the inclusion of two Farmer Service Centers (FSCs)
which will be established in different geographical locations. These centers
will provide access by farmers to service points dealing with farm machinery,
implements, inputs, veterinary services, agricultural information and credit.
The centers will also be established with extension and demonstration
facilities, an office for a local health assistant and space provision for a
general store.
2.    Advantages arising out of the establishment of the pilot FSCs are: (a)
coordinated supply of services to local farmers at one location and the
savings to farmers in travelling long distances to a number of locations to
obtain these services; (b) farmers' immediate access to technical information
on the type and quantity of input to purchase, and advice on how to use the
input correctly; (c) access by potential rural entrepreneurs to technological
innovations; (d) convenience to farmers in getting answers to a wide range of
questions in one visit; (e) convenience to supply service organizations at a
central point for easy communication and consultation among themselves;
(f)ability of extension staff to monitor more closely the distribution of
cervices and inputs to farmers; and (g) provision of a central meeting point
for farmers to interact and exchange information.
Experience with FSCs
3.    Nigeria.  FSCs have been an important component of the World Bank-
supported Agricultural Development Projects in Nigeria. Operated on a full
cost recovery basis (except in the case of fertilizer which carries a large
subsidy) they have engaged in the retail sales of inputs to farmers. Their
gradual privatization is being sought now, and it is proposed that they should
operate as wholesale outlets selling farm supplies to private retailers and
farmer co-operatives. While they have had some management and financial
problems, these FSCs have changed the input distribution situation in the
country by bringing inputs within the easy reach of small scale farmers.
4.    Mauritiu-.  The Bank assisted Sugar Industry Project (Cr. 2728-HAS,
effective in 1987) supported the creation of the FSC program on a pilot scale,
to provide integrated supporting services to smallholders in sugarcane-based
cropping systems. The FSC program falls under the Ministry of Agriculture but
outside the extating structure for agricultural services within the Ministry.
t'he approach wes justified on the basis of: Ci) the specific needs of
smallholder sugarcane growers which extend beyond 'agronomic' extension and
include assistance in ozganizing labor, transport and factory delivery; and
(ii) the need to coordinate these broad extension/raragement services with
services from other suppliers - both private and government 'gencies.



- 78 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 2
5.    The FSC pilot program is considered successful by both the Government
and smallholders. A decision has been made by Government and endorsed by the
Bank to expand the program to country-wide coverage. The FSC framework has
also facilitated the implementation of a Land Derocking Scheme and the
successful testing of a pilot Land Area Management Unit program involving the
grouping of farmers into economic management units with the objectives of
resolving problems of labor organization, transport and delivery.
Implementation
6.    The Working Group would have overall responsibility for the FSCs.  It
would prepare terms of reference ior market and consultant studies, supervise
the physical implementation of the two FSCs, select the governing bodies and
determine their terms of reference and legal status, and assign the
appropriate extension staff to each station.
7.    Market studies will be carried out in each area to determine the
critical local bottlenecks in farmer production, such as access to credit,
labor saving agricultural implements, fertilizers and chemical pesticides,
animal feeds, vaccinations and medicines. The studies would also survey
supplier interest in leasing space at the FSCs, and would indicate the most
suitable mix of crop and livestock extension services at each location. Once
the studies have been approved by the Working Group and IDA, suppliers will be
formally approached and asked to sign contracts for storefront and storage
space at the FSCs. Consultants would then be commissioned to prepare designs
and costs for the construction of each FSC.
8.    The FSCs would be managed by a group of representatives from local
cooperatives, banks, and farmers' organizations. This group will select and
pay a local farmer to run the demonstration farm attached to the FSC, with the
help of the input suppliers and extension workers. When selecting the
appropriate group to undertake this management role, consideration will be
given to the FSCs' operatior. as a non-profit organization where management
staff salaries, building o1arating costs and maintenance costs would come from
leasing ;.ees paid by the suppliers and the sale of produce from the
demonstration farm.



- 79 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Farmer Training Centers
Backaround
1.    Farmer Training Centers have played an important role in Kenya's
agricultural development. During the late 1950s they were used to implement
the plan for the rapid intensification of agriculture. Land consolidation,
followed by the introduction of plAnned farming systems incorporating high
value cash crops and improved livestock was an unfamiliar way of using land
resources. There was therefore a felt need to train practicing farmers.
2.    Residential training of small scale farmers was started at FTCs, which
were established in various parts of the country. By the end of the 1950s
there were eight FTCs in the country, and at Independence the number had
increased to 13, with a combined bed capacity of 930. There are now 27 FTCs
under the direction of MOA with a total bed capacity of 1,600, and two FTCs
under the direction of HOLD. It is estimated that about one million farmers
and students have been trained at FTCs.
3.    FTCs have been primarily responsible for teaching tea and coffee
husbandry practices to small scale farmers. They have also offered one week
certificate courses that qualify farmers to receive credit from the
Agricultural Finance Corporation for dairy farming, cash crop and farm
development.
4.    Because of the emphasis on strengthening the training and visit aspects
of the extension system, financial and manpower support for FTCs declined in
the 1980s, with a corresponding decline in occupancy rates from 80 percent in
the 1970s to the current level of 38 percent. In the last few years, as a
result of an emphasis on increasing farmer productivity, the increasing
complexity of farming technologies, and the integrated approach to farming
systems, there has been renewed Government and donor interest in FTCs in
supplementing the regular extension services.
Program at PTCs
5.    FTCs are used for traini.ag both farmers and extension staff in subjects
which cannot be adequately covered during the regular visits. In particular,
the Farmer Training Centers are utilized for:
(a) Testing and demonstration of a wide range of small scale farmer
equipment such as tillage implements, seeders, grain shellers,
cassava peelers, oil extractors, chaff cutters for livestock
forage, oxen yokes, sprayers and vegetable driers.
(b)   Practical training of the district subject matter specialists
during the monthly workshops.



- 80 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
(c)   Training of frontline extension workers on subjects which, due to
the time and facilities required, have not been adequately covered
during their monthly training. This type of training will
include: (i) use of line levels to lay out soil conservation
structures such as terraces and cut off drains; (ii) establishment
of zero-grazing structures for livestock; (iii) budding of citrus
and other fruit seedlings; (iv) training and handling of oxen for
land tillage.
(d) Training of farmers on subjects which require more time than is
possible during their brief meetings with extension frontline
workers. This type of training will embrace:
(i)      Animal traction, where farmers will have ample time to
practice the training and handling of oxen. To gain
reasonable skill in doing so will require up to 1 week
of continuous training.
(ii)      Handling and working with different tillage, seeding,
weeding and processing equipment.
(iii)      Establishment of zero-grazino units and other
livestock management practices such as dehorning
cattle.
se)   Hosting high school agriculture classes and 4K clubs and
demonstrating the latest techniques of farm management and
agronomy.
(f) Providing a place for women farmers to gather to discuss gender
sensitive issues in home economics.
(g)   Testing of research findings for adaptability to varying agro-
ecological situations. The FTCs will become testing sites for
agro-ecological zones where they happen to be situated.
(h)   Demonstrations of newly introduced crops which may be unfamiliar
to the farmers, such as the wide range of horticultural crops
which are now emerging as important for export market.
rganization and Management
FTCs generally serve one district, and are under the direction of the
W0, who chairs the programming and management committees.  The programming
)mmittee is composed of district level ministry representatives, and meets
uice a year to design the training program of one to two week courses. The
rincipal of the FTC serves as the secretary of the programning committee.
se management committee is composed of the Principal and district subject
itter specialists, and is charged with designing the farming demonstration
:tivities at the FTC farm. There is no local farmer representation on either
minittee.



- 81 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
7.    At the FTC, the Principal supervises the training program, and a Farm
Manager supervises the da7 to day operations of the FTC farm. Each FTC has a
complement of resident instructors in subjects such as crop production, animal
production, farm management and home economics, and a number of administrative
and support staff. All the staff assigned to the FTC are drawn from the
regular extension service, and are often assigned to the FTC on a short term
basis. There are no financial or professional rewards associated with
teaching at the FTCs.
8.    FTCs are currently being financed directly by Treasury, with the DAO in
charge of budgeting, procurement and revenue collection. All fees collected
and revenue generated have to be remitted to Treasury, and operating and
investment expenditures allocated from Treasury. The administrative
procedures involved with securing funds often lead to delays in receiving
inputs on a timely basis. Given the liquidity problems as a result of
Treasury allocation, the demonstration farms are operated for subsistence
rather than profit.
Proposed Changes
9.    Several changes have been proposed in the organization and management of
FTCs. A proposal under consideration is to manage the FTCs through a Board of
Governors which would include district representatives of different
ministries, representatives of farmers cooperatives, and local farmers. The
autonomy of the Board would enable it to act quickly and independently to
address issues concerning the FTC. The participation of representatives from
farmers cooperatives and local farmers on the Board would enhance the
relevance of courses and demonstrations to the local farming community. A
proposal has been made that the management of the demonstration farms would be
contracted to local cooperatives that would run the farms on a self sustaining
basis. Permanent teaching staff would be assigned to the FTCs on a longer
term (three to four years) basis. In addition, subject matter specialists and
researchers would be given professional recognition for teaching courses at
FTCs and conducting on-farm demonstrations. A proposal has been made that all
revenues collected by the FTC should be kept in an FTC Fund and used to
support operating and investment expenditures.
Implementation
10.   The Government has agreed to prepare a strategic framework and
masterplan for the development of FTCs. This strategic framework would
discuss the role and function of FTCs in the overall extension system, and the
nature of the support they would provide to the training and visit system.
The masterplan would include the management and financing arrangements, the
program of courses (prepared with the help of FINNIDA) and the proposed
implementation timetables for the rehabilitation of FTCs.
11. Three FTCs would be selected for rehabilitation and refurnishing during
the first three years of the Project. Site surveys and business plans,
detailing the financial arrangements (budgeting, recurrent costs, salaries),
managerial arrangements, staffing and training programs, would be prepared and
discussed with IDA. Rehabilitation would commence upon IDA approval of the



- 82 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 5
proposed plans. The performance of these three FTCs would be closely
monitored by the Government and IDA based on the criteria established in the
business plans.
12. As part of the midterm review, an overall evaluation of the three FTCs
would be undertaken. If the evaluation were favorable, the rehabilitation
work would proceed on the remaining FTCs.



- 83 -
ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 5
Farmers Training Centers
Year             Location         Bed
Name of FTC          Started  Province    District    Capacity    Acreage
Kaimosi              1958      R. Valley   Nandi          40           200
Kabianga             1959                  Kericho        45          100
Baringo              1972      '           Baringo        60          500
Chebororwa           1959                  K. Marakwet   60         2,469
Ngong'               1965      *   *       Kajiado        40            15
Wambugu              1958      Central     Nyeri         120           205
Waruhiu              1958                  Kiambu         48            56
01 Joro Orok         1975      *           Nyandarua      60          118
Kenyatta             1960                  M Murang'a    120          134
Kamweti              1976      *           Kirinyaga      60            46
Njabini              1964                  Nyandarua      40            60
Thika                1964                  Murang'a       32           23
Machakos             1961      Eastern     Machakos       80           800
Kitui BL1            1960                  Kitui          60          209
Kaguru               1957                  Meru           86            67
Zmbu (revived)       1961                  Embu           40             9
Mtwapa               1964      Coast       Kilifi         48           150
Taita                1971/72               T/Taveta       60           92
Mpeketoni            1984                  Lamu           24            10
Busia                1984     Western      Busia          60           98
Bungoma              1973/74   U           Bungoma        60           93
Bukura               1959      *           Kakamega       44           66
Kisii                1961      Nyanza      Risii         100           80
Haseno               1958                  Kisumu         60            20
Homa Bay             1956      *           S/Nyanza       90            6
Siaya                1979      *           Siaya          60           70
Garissa              1987      N. Eastern  Garissa        28          176
Wajir                -         U           Wajir          21         1000
Narok                          R. Valley   Narok          80           700



- 84 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Mass Media and Communications
1.      Background.  Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (formerly Voice of Kenya)
is the Government owned radio and television broadcast service in Kenya. The
radio service broadcasts in Swahili, English and ethnic languages, and reaches
most of urban and rural Kenya. The television service broadcasts to Nairobi,
the Rift Valley, Mombasa and Kisumu. A new television station, Kenya
Television News, recently started operation in the Nairobi area, and will
expand to other major cities. Recent reports estimate that there are
1,800,000 licensed radio rece'!ers in Kenya (84 per 1,000 inhabitants) and
115,000 licensed television sets (5 per 1,000 inhabitants). There are four
major daily newspapers in Kenya, three published in English, and one in
Swahili. There are also 11 rural newspapers published in ethnic languages
with a combined circulation of 65,000.
2.      Institutions.  The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting is
responsible for the production and dissemination of information.   At the
Ministry of Agriculture, the Agricultural Information Center, which is part of
the Agricultural Information Branch, produces radio programs and articles for
dissemination through the media services.
3.      Media Strategy.  Detailed plans for a media strategy will be prepared
by a consultant prior to implementation of this component. The strategy would
likely include the following elements:
Radio programs will be prepared, using dramatization, interview,
discussion, documentary and news formats. Surveys will be undertaken
to determine the listening habits and characteristics of the target
audience. These programs will be pre-tested to determine their
viability, and their impact will be monitored.
Television programs will not reach the majority of Kenyan farmers,
but will reach the important decision makers in the Government and
private sector. Only four programs will be prepared each year. These
programs will be reproduced on videotape for use at FTCs, RRCs
and in staff training.
Print media will be used extensively. There are very good
agricultural advice columns in the local press, and these will be
supplemented with longer feature stories on the latest technologies
and farming methods.



- 85 -
ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 2
Drama has proven to be an effective medium of communication.  It
provides entertainment while informing and educating the audience.
The plays would be written with the help of subject matter
specialists, and would be performed by local and university based
theater groups. Discussions would be held after each performance to
answer questions that are raised. Local artists and school children
would also be asked to depict agricultural subjects, for display at
community centers and FTCs.
Publicity campaigns wculd be undertaken at critical times such as
planting and harvesting. These campaigns would reirforce the
messages delivered through other forms of media, and would include
the use of posters, flyers, billboards, T-shirts, and kangas.
4.      Implementation.  MOA has agreed to hire a media consultant to manage
the mass media component. AIC will serve as the hub of activities, and would
produce many of the radio programs and publish written materials for which it
already has the staff and equipment. To avoid increasing the staff at AIC,
and to stimulate the already vibrant private sector, most of the work will be
contracted out to local firms, with the mandate to focus on specific target
audiences. or types of programming. To the extent possible, farmers will be
invr.ved with the formulation and production of these programs, so that the
relevance and appeal of the programs would be enhanced.



- 86 -
ANNEX 13
Page 1 of 3
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
THE NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT (NARP)
Objectives and Strategy
1.    Major objectives of NARP are to: (1) focus on priority research programs
with a significant likelihood of high and early returns to investments; (ii)
develop technologies that contribute to increased productivity particularly of
small holdings; (iii) intensify producer participation in research program
formulation; and (iv) strengthen linkages between research and other
agricultural services such as extension as well as between KARI and other
institutions involved in agricultural research, in particular the
universities, private enterprise and international organizations.
2.    The strategy to achieve these objectives has been for GOK to reorganize
the various agricultural research establishments into a single, new KARI.
This enables GOK to: (i) establish clear research priorities and to adhere to
these while coordinating external aid; (ii) develop a long-term strategy,
consisting of a KARI corporate plan and appropriate crop, livestock, factor
and disciplinary research programs; and (iii) develop and introduce improved
management systems from headquarters to field research activities. These
improved systems are envisaged to lead to better supervision of individual
research programs, stations and staff; more stringent budgeting and financial
management; and more meaningful research reporting, monitoring and evaluation.
General Description of NARP
3.    NARP is being financed by GOK with external financing by IDA, and (in
parallel) by several other donors. Implementation is phased as a function of
available GOK and external funding, the existing and anticipated
implementation capacity of KARI, the results of the researcher training
program and access to external expert assistance. Taking these limiting
factors and donor commitments into account, NARP comprises the following four
main components:
-     Assistance for the restructuring of KARI as a semi-autonomous
government agency which undertakes research planning, management,
budgeting, supervision, reporting, and training. USAID and EEC
are major bilateral donors; the IDA component supports the
establishment of identified elements of the management information
systems, facilitates donor coordination and provides required
equipment and civil works.



- 87 -
ANNEX 13
Page 2 of 3
_     The development of KARI's management and research capacity through
staff training and external expert assistance in selected areas
(funded by bilateral donors).
_     Support for the execution of adaptive research programs covering
all of Kenya's agro-climatic zones and for equipment and
rehabilitation of the Regional Research Centers (RRCs). The IDA
component ensures full establishment of all RRCs, some of which
are aided also by other donors.
-     Assistance to implement critical nationally coordinated commodity,
factor and disciplinary research programs for applied research and
to the rehabilitation of the National Research Centers (NRCs) from
which such programs will be managed. All major donors are
involved with USAID particularly supporting major cereal programs,
ODA animal health, the Netherlands animal production and the EEC
soil fertility management. The IDA component assists approved key
programs in terms of non-salary operating costs, equipment and
civil works.
Important features involved in these components are:
-     Introduction of a new Scheme of Service for KARI staff.
-     A rationalization of the present station network simultaneously
with the establishment of the RRCs and NRCs by using all other
stations exclusively as testing sites.
-     Improvement of research/extension linkages through joint
activities and better technical training of extension staff.
-     Development of strong linkages of KARI with related research
institutions in Kenya, in other countries and with the
International Agricultural Research Centers.
-     Strengthening of KARI's capacity for coordination of donor
assistance to agricultural research.
4.    In terms of research program development, one of the major objectives of
NARP is to facilitate adaptive research to ensure that new recommendations are
indeed translated into messages that are technically and economically viable
for farmers in specific agroclimatic environments and socio-economic
circumstances. NARP, therefore, includes the strengthening of a network of
eight RRCs, each serving an identified agro-ecological zone; in addition there
are two Centers focussing especially on adaptive livestock research in dry
environments. The RRCs through on-station and on-farm experiments, are
designed to develop packages of agronomic practices and improved management
methods for crops and animals in production systems that maximize returns to
farmers while attempting to minimize risk. The RRCs also play a key role in
identifying research priorities at the NRCs through feedback. In order to
make this possible, research and extension are encouraged to work closely
together; the envisaged liaison structure for research and extension is shown



- 88 -
ANNEX 13
Page 3 of 3
in Chart 1. NARP provides for RRC rehabilitation in terms of civil works,
equipment and research farms, construction of laboratories and housing, the
purchase of new equipment and finances a (declining) part of the non-salary
operating costs of research; it also includes provisions for training
equipment, transport and travel allowances to facilitate closer
research/extension linkages.
5.    There are sixteen NRCs with tentatively assigned research programs.
Initially, the nationally coordinated research programs will emphasize
adaptive research on critical aspects of important food grains, livestock
products and production factors. The NRCs have principal responsibility for
generating and testing improved technologies for commodities, factors of
production or disciplines. Each is establishing a multidisciplinary team of
scientists in relation to the production problems to be addressed. KARI also
uses donor assistance for the establishment of a Research Fund in order to
contract special research projects to other Kenyan institutions in Kenya (e.g.
Nairobi University) and outside (for example the IARCs). The NRCs are being
rehabilitated, involving civil works, research farm development, purchase of
farm and laboratory equipment as well as transport and provided with increased
non-salary operating funds and essential facilities to carry out priority
research.



- 89 -
ANEX 14
Page 1 of 2
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
IFAD Projects With Extension Components
Under Which Financing Will be Made Available for NEP II 1/
1.    As part of its ongoing development cooperation with the Government
of Kenya, IFAD will be undertaking several rural development projects
which have a bearing on the second National Extension Project (NEP II).
These include the Kwale and Kilifi Districts Development Project
(KKDDP), the Siaya Farmers Groups and Community Support Project (FGCSP),
and the Coast Province Arid and Semi-Arid Development Project (Coast
ASAL).
2.    The KKDDP which will cost approximately USS14m, was launched in
November 1989, and is expected to become operational during calendar
year 1990. The project is area-based, and covers mainly the high to
medium potential areas of Kwale and Kilifi. Its primary objective is to
increase smallholder production and incomes in the two districts.
Accordingly, the project has development components on crops, livestock,
adaptive research, irrigation, fisheries, cooperative development, and
training. The project was preceded by a pilot project through which
successful approaches to implementing its many components were evolved.
3.    The Siaya FGCSP is currently an area-based pilot project within
Siaya District. The pilot project comes to an end on 30th June, 1990,
with a possible extension to 30th June, 1991. As in KKDDP, the project
is multi-component, and includes crops, livestock, adaptive research,
fisheries, community development, and training. Over and above these
production-related activities, the pilot project has a strong component
on community health and rural water supply.
4.    On the basis of the experience gained from the pilot project, IFAD
and GOK have formulated FGCSP Phase II which will, in addition to Siaya,
cover South Nyanza, Kakamega, and the two Kieni Divisions in Nyeri
District. Phase II will include all sectoral components covered in the
Siaya Pilot Project, with an additional irrigation component in Kieni
Divisions.
5.    In both KKDDP and Siaya FGCSP, the project activities are
implemented in line with the Government's District Focus Strategy for
Rural Development. The project activities are part and parcel of
district and line-m4nistry activities; the priorities are established by
the relevant district level authorities, i.e. the District Executive
Committees and the District Development Committees; and the budgetary,
accounting, and auditing procedures are in line with the Government's
11    Draft prepared by IFAD, March 7, 1990.



- 90 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
own procedures. Indeed, one of the primary objectives of the two
projects is to strengthen district development institutions. With
regard to NEP II, crop development is a critical element in both
projects, and NEP II is the key input to crop development. It is
therefore of utmost importance that NEP II be thoroughly linked with the
crop development activities, and these in turn be linked to the other
activities in the two projects.
6.    In addition to the two area-based projects, IFAD and the
Government are in the process of formulating a project covering the ASAL
districts of the Coast Province. The project will cover Lamu, Tana
River, and Taita-Taveta districts. In summary, the districts under
which IFAD parallel financing arrangement will apply under NEP II are
South Nyanza, Siaya, Kakamega, Nyeri, Kwale, Kilifi, Taita-Taveta, Tana
River, and Lamu.
7.    Under NEP I, the funding for extension was done under cofinancing
arrangement by the World Bank and IFAD. With the experience gained
under the two pilot projects and with the formulation of the projects
proper, it is now important that the financing for NEP II in the
districts covered by KKDDP and FGCSP be directly linked with the project
activities in the districts concerned. It is therefore intended that
NEP II funding in the relevant districts will be done wholly by IFAD,
and that the funding will be parallel to that of IDA. Accordingly,
separate budget heads will be opened for IFAD and IDA in the
Government's Development Estimates. The budgeting, disbursements,
accounting, auditing, and claims for reimbursement under each head will
be done separately. In this way, the financing and implementation of
NEP II will be better linked with KKDDP and FGCSP. It must, however, be
emphasized that the formulation, appraisal, and supervision of NEP II
will remain national in character, and that the Bank will be responsible
for NEP II supervision both within and outside districts covered by IFAD
projects.



- 91 -
Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.        Importance of Supervision.  Project supervision of NEP I was
carried out by the Bank, with the assistanca of the Government. The Bank
had complete control over the supervision of the project because IFAD
provided financial support to the project under a joint financing
arrangement wtth the Bank, and entered into an administrative arrangement
giving the Bank responsibility for project supervision. Formal supervision
missions, and a midterm review, were conducted by the Bank, and
modifications were suggested to the Government. In addition, informal
supervision was conducted by an extension specialist at the resident
mission, and by a long term consultant hired by the Bank to do field
supervision on a daily basis. These supervision efforts were vital to the
success of the project, as they assisted the Government in establishing the
T&V system of extension management in 30 districts, and ensured its proper
functioning.
2.        Supervision will become even more important under the new
project. There are a number of new components and pilots in the project,
that will require close supervision and assistance in start-up. These
components are: ASAL prototypes, mass media, FTCs, FSCs, quarterly
workshops for women, work with farmers' cooperatives, revision of the
educational curricula, and cost recowery from KTDA. Some changes are also
necessary in the management of the extension system, given the new
arrangements made for cooperation between MOA dnd MOLD.
3.        IFAD's support will take the form of parallel, rather than
joint, financing. IFAD has three projects with significant extension
components: Kwale and Kilifi Districts Development Project (KKDDP); Siaya
Farmers Groups and Community Support Project (FGCSP); and the Coast
Provinces Arid and Semi-Arid Development Project (Coast ASAL). Funds will
be provided under the IFAD proj--ts to cover extension in the nine
districts covered by these three projects.  The Government, IFAD and the
Bank agree that the extension system is national in scope, and that the
supervision of the project should be done on a national basis in a unified
manner. The purpose of this supervision plan, agreed with the Government
at negotiations, by both IFAD and the Bank, is to clarify supervisory
responsibilities.
4.        Role of the Bank.  The Bank will supervise the project,
including the extension components of IFAD's three projects. The Bank
already has an administrative arrangement with IFAD to supervise KKDDP. It
will enter into administrative arrangements with IFAD to supervise the
extension components of the FGCSP and Coast ASAL projects. The Bank will
be responsible for all aspects of project supervision, including review of
progress reports, component preparation reports, consultant studies, annual
work programs, procurement actions, expenditure monitoring, disbursements,
correspondence, field supervision, and the midterm review. Routine



- 92 -
Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
supervision is expected to take five staff weeks per year. Formal
supervision missions, in which IFAD will be invited to participate, will
take place twice a year. Supervision of other project components will take
place according to the schedule attached, for a total of 25 staff weeks
each year.
5.        Role of IFAD.  In order to enable the Bank to supervise the
project on a national scale, IFAD will enter into administrative
arrangements giving the Bank full responsibility for supervising the
components of its projects that are related to extension. In order to
enable the Bank to carry out effective supervision, IFAD will provide the
Bank full information about the non-extension components of its three
projects. IFAD will participate in the formal supervision missions of NEP
II, and will invite the Bank to participate in the formal supervision
missions of the FGCSP and Coast ASAL projects. The procedures established
for supervision will be reviewed as part of the midterm review, and
modified as needed.
6.        Role of the Government.  The Government will extend its full
cooperation to the Bank. As part of the annual work programs, it will
provide a review of the progress made in the implementation of various
project components, the status of disbursements, the coming year's
procurement documentation, and issues that require the specific attention
of the Bank. MOA and MOLD will assist in setting up the supervision
missions, in briefing the missions on arrival, and in attending the mission
wrap-up meetings.



- 93 -
ANEX 15
Page* of 4
e                  Activity              Expected Skill                 Staff Input (SW)
ReauIremennt
Preparatlon of              Procurement                          2.0
Procurement                 Specialist
Documents
Implementation of:          Took Manager                         6.0
MBOA-MOLD pilot;            Extension Specialist
KARI-MOA-SMOL               Roeearch Speciallst
agreements
Prr-efftcti venoe           Tosk Manager                         14.0
mission: review of:         Extension Specialist
conditions of               Reoearch Specialist
effectiveness;              Civil Engineer
annual work program         Comunications
for first year of           Specialist
projcet; eass media
component
preparation; FSC
mrket surveys;
stotus of FTC
f rameork
Review of: study            Task Man.  r                         10.0
TORs; cost recovery;        ASAL Specilist
ASAL prototype              WID Specialist
proposals; work with        Organizatlonal
women; staffing             Specialist
levels at MOA; FTC
business plans
Review of: annual           Tosk Manager                         12.0
work programs;              Extension Specialist
coemunications              Rsearch Specialist
pilot.; *xtonsioq           Procurement
methodology;                Specialist
lpl eme ntation of          ASAL Specialist
ASAL prototype.;
MBA-MOLD
rrang ement.; FSCs;
cooperation with
KARI; progress with
studies
Review of: extension        Task Manager                         10.0
methodology;                and Specialists as
cooperation with            noeded
KARI progres of
stud as; staffing
levels at MBOA; work
with women; FTCs
Two supervision             Task Manager and                     20.0
aission, one to             Specialist. as
coincide with review        needed
of annual work
programs



- 94 -
ANNEX 15
Pat 4 of 4
1994                        Midterm Review plus         Took Manager and                     36.0
one supervision             Specialists as
mis*lon                     needed
1996 - 1997                 Two supervision             Took Manager and                     60.0
missions each year,         Specislio t as needed
one to coincide with
review of annual
work progrm



- 95 -
ANNEX 16
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Consultant Studies
Comronent                                                          Man-Months
Organization and Management of Extension Services
MOA - Headquarters
* Procurement                                                      8
* Accounting and Auditing                                         10
* Impact Assessment Studies (8)                                   52
- Organization of MOA and MOLD                                     6
* Staff Deployment at MOA and MOLD                                 6
* Other Technical Assistance                                      12
Monitoring and Evaluation
* Information Planning and Pilot Project                          15
Extension Methodologies
Mass Media and Communications
* Television Programs and Videos                                  26
* Radio Programs and Spots                                        34
* Publicity Campaigns                                             14
* Community Media                                                 14
* Print Media                                                      7
* Q & A Pilot System                                               8
Farmer Service Centers
* Market Studies                                                   4
Training
* Educational Curricula                                            6



- 96 -
ANNEX 17
KENYA
SECOND NATIONAL EXTENSION PROJECT
Documents in the Proiect File
1.    Detailed Cost Tables
2.    Project Financial Analysis
3.    Project Economic Analysis
4.    Consultant Terms of Reference
5.   J.K. Gatheru, "Case Study on Kenya's Agricultural Extension
Services and Women Farmers".
6.    W.W. Wapakala, "Crop and Livestock Technologies in Kenya".
7.    Prode BV, "Agricultural Education and Training in Kenya".
8.    C.J. King, "Soil and Water Conservation in Kenya".
9.   MOA, "Future Management of Farmer Training Centers".
10.   J. Young, "Media Strategy to Develop the Agricultural Sector".
11.   Agrimathica VB, "Communications Aspects".
12.   List of Other Documents in the Project File



SUDAN~~~~§  
S U  D A  N                  . 
_. -2_ < 9   t5'                                   ~~~K E N Y A
Ak ~ ~            ~            ~ ~ ~ EY
^-  <,           { . >                        \\.  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  T  H    I O    P  I A   -                      -
T) rURKANA      7.,                                                                              MANDERA         I
.1         1                               MARSABIT 
U G A N D A    8  .z   >.   ZJ@J  |  -a~~E           A      T  E  R  WJ    x\A/ 
UGANDA~~~~
UGANDA      V A L L E Y                                    ;H
55 S   rq1 X            ,-         ~7 lf                          
w  ~ ~ ~  ~                                   (NO             T  H ~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
s {GOK , NZX .- ,o.          .               -, 4SAMRURU        I
2  t              SARINS   _                                     A               R
- C   \-4           ~~~~NAROK~  .       AR                         M Ku         
0  w EST                            AREA ERN,             ,    5   KIEUR             rANA RIVER R
sz  V   A   L '\ L   E    y t}\,XoNhchobE                                       E    R          I
^Neews   <        t °         3<3(                   g   ~~~~~~~~~~~~c    o    A; S(T    LAMUt '    INDIAN
XU/W ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    I ItII         TANAR RIVER                           \.VIC  /  SS< 
Jl orroANr  IAIA    _     |\ /   KOCEAN
41-                                       1J IIWqt .<_Vl  
A     F R  I C  A                                -irpO t
-v                                                       - j  \.;   KWA<E  T- -fr
xLMTe0.  e s      120   1§).20Rew
¢S*X$~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ --                                            - P-k b-d-Dl;II 
3,VR e  Ccr1 



