Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2199 KE
         (Second National Agricultural Extension Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated February 21, 1991
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2199 KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated February 21, 1991, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   by various agreements, the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (hereinafter called the Fund) has agreed to
make loans (the Fund Loans) to the Borrower to assist in financing
the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in the respective
Fund Loan Agreements; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated Janu-
ary 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "ASAL" means the Arid and Semi-Arid Lands;
      (b)   "FSC" means Farmers Service Center;
      (c)   "FTC" means Farmers Training Center;
      (d)   "KARI" means the Kenya Agricultural Research Institute;
      (e)   "KTDA" means the Kenya Tea Development Authority;
      (f)   "MOA" means the Ministry of Agriculture of the Borrower;
      (g)   "MOLD" means the Ministry of Livestock Development of
the Borrower;
      (h)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Fiscal Year" or "FY" means the financial year of the
Borrower which runs from July 1 to June 30; and
      (j)   "Cooperation Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between MOA and MOLD.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,400,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in the
Central Bank of Kenya on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1998, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
Page  3
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 15
commencing January 15, 2001, and ending July 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due con-
sideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
Page  4
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                  but in any case not later than nine months after
                  the end of each such year, a certified copy of
                  the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                  such scope and in such detail as the Association
                  shall have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                  concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                  thereof as the Association shall from time to
                  time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                  with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                  accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit report for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                  Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                  Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                  invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                  evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
Page  5
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                  of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31,
1992, submit to the Association certified copies of audit reports,
prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, for
the period from July 1 to December 31, 1990, for the National
Extension Project (Credit No. 1387-KE).
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that:
      (a)   subject to paragraph (b) of this Section:
            (i)   the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
                  proceeds of any loan or grant made to the
                  Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
                  have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
                  whole or in part, pursuant to the terms thereof,
                  or
           (ii)   any such loan shall have become due and payable
                  prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
      (b)   Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if the
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that:
(i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (i) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of Section 5.01 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association certified
copies of audit reports, prepared by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association, covering the period up to June 30, 1990, for the
National Extension Project (Credit Number 1387-KE);
      (b)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association, evidence
satisfactory to the Association, showing that the Borrower has
successfully implemented, on a pilot basis in two  Districts, the
agreement on cooperation between MOA and MOLD in extension services;
      (c)   the Borrower has prepared an annual work program,
satisfactory to the Association for the fiscal year of 1991/1992;
and
      (d)   the Borrower has submitted to the Association evidence
satisfactory to the Association showing that the Borrower's Forward
Page  6
Budget contains adequate budgetary allocations for the Project.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister at the time responsible for finance
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 30007
            Nairobi, Kenya
            Cable address:          Telex:
                  FINANCE             22921
                  Nairobi             MINFIN-KE
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                        By /s/ D. D. Afande
                                         Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
Page  7
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Vehicles                    4,040,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                100% of local
                                                expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
(2)   Furniture,                   800,000      100% of foreign
      Equipment and                             expenditures and
      Instructional                             100% of local
      Materials                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                factory cost)
(3)   Civil Works                1,060,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(4)   Incremental                3,200,000      40% for the first
      Operating Costs                           four years of
                                                Project Implemen-
                                                tation and
                                                20% thereafter.
(5)   Training                   3,500,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                75% of local
                                                expenditures
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)   Consultants'               1,800,000      100%
      Services
(7)   Unallocated                3,000,000
                                __________
      TOTAL                     17,400,000
                                ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental operating costs" means the
incremental costs incurred by the Borrower related to the operation
and maintenance of buildings, vehicles, office equipment and staff
travel related to the Project, and costs incurred in procuring
seeds, fertilizers and farm implements and inputs for on-farm
demonstration activities.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
Page  8
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to increase the rate of
adoption and to stimulate the development of technical packages that
will enable small-holder farmers to increase their productivity and
incomes.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Organization and Management of Extension Services
1.    Strengthening the existing extension service and expanding it
to include the administrative areas of Kajiado, Marsabit, Nairobi,
Mombasa, Tana River and Samburu.
2.    Development of two prototype projects in ASAL areas of Turkana
and Wajir to test the provision of extension services to nomadic
people.
3.    Increasing extension staff mobility and access to farmers in
larger areas through the provision and maintenance of transportation
equipment.
4.    Refurbishment of office buildings and construction of new
offices, and training centers.
5.    Provision of office, field and training equipment to improve
staff efficiency.
6.    Strengthening of monitoring and evaluation of the extension
services
Part B:     Extension Methodology
1.    Dissemination of agricultural information to farmers through
the use of mass-media, including radio programs, television
programs, community-based information services and undertaking of
publicity campaigns.
2.    Establishing an interactive database system on a pilot basis
to provide information to farmers, extension staff and researchers.
3.    Rehabilitation and construction of FTCs.
4.    Quarterly workshops for groups of women-farmers on new
technologies and improved practices for crops and livestock.
5.    Construction of two FSCs on a pilot basis at Marsabit and
Kerio Valley.
Part C:     Training
1.    Carrying out a review of the curricula and operations of
agricultural education institutions.
2.    Training, through short courses, workshops, orientation
programs and degree programs for extension staff in crop and
livestock production and other agricultural and scientific areas.
3.    Training of farmers.
Part D:     Research
      Provision of transportation and equipment to enable research
staff to participate in training sessions, demonstrations and on-
farm trials.
Page  9
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1997.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in  Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall be
grouped into bid packages.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
1.    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Kenya may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Civil works for the construction of offices, accommodation,
agricultural training and service centers estimated to cost an
aggregate amount equivalent to $2,000,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.    Vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of
$50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent
to $300,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Association.
Part D:    Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
Page  10
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
1.    (a)   The Borrower shall establish and maintain until
completion of the Project an inter-ministerial Steering Committee
which shall comprise representatives from MOA, MOLD and KARI. The
Steering Committee shall meet at least once every year and shall be
responsible for the overall implementation of the Project. The
Steering Committee shall be chaired alternately by the Permanent
Secretaries of MOA and MOLD.
      (b)   The Steering Committee shall establish a Working Group
which shall design, oversee and implement matters relating to the
Cooperation Agreement and the Project.
2.    The Working Group shall prepare detailed Annual Work Programs
with details on scheduling of workshops, demonstrations, training
sessions, training at FTCs, staff deployment and hiring including
the proportion of women to be hired, cost containment measures, a
review of the previous years budget, a delineation of budgetary
requirements for the coming year, pilot projects, and key monitoring
indicators. Such Annual Work Programs satisfactory to the
Association shall be furnished to the Association for review by
January 31 in each year.
3.    The Borrower shall, not later than June 30, 1994, carry out
jointly with the Association a comprehensive mid-term review of the
progress of the Project and soon thereafter shall implement the
recommendations of such a review. The review shall cover, inter
alia: (a) the success or failure of the ASAL prototypes implemented
under Part A.2 of the Project and the feasibility of extending
coverage to other ASAL areas; (b) management of the extension
system; (c) linkages with other ministries; (d) linkages with
research; (e) effectiveness of technology dissemination; (f) cost
recovery and cost reduction; (g) cooperation between MOA and MOLD;
(h) donor coordination; (i) the performance of the monitoring
system; (j) the use of mass media under Part B.1 of the Project; (k)
the success or failure of the communications pilots; (l) the success
or failure of the rehabilitation and management of FTCs and FSCs;
(m) integration of the home economics staff into the extension
frontline.
4.   In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project on FTCs, the Borrower
shall adopt the following procedures:
      (a)   The Borrower shall prepare a framework satisfactory to
the Association, for the management and financing of FTCs within the
overall extension and training system. The Borrower shall there-
after, within such framework, select three FTCs to be rehabilitated
during the first three years of Project implementation. The Borrower
shall carry out a site survey and shall prepare a business plan for
each of the three FTCs. Such business plans shall include, inter
alia, financial arrangements (i.e. budgets, recurrent costs and
salaries), managerial arrangements, staffing, and training programs,
including courses and the number of trainees.
Page  11
      (b)   The Borrower shall thereafter carry out the Rehabili-
tation of the three FTCs after the Association has approved the
business plans referred to above.
      (c)   The performance of the three FTCs shall be evaluated
during the mid-term review referred to in paragraph 3 above, in
accordance with evaluation criteria and targets acceptable to the
Association. Such evaluation criteria shall include the imple-
mentation of the business plans and the assessment of the
sustainability of FTCs.
      (d)   The Borrower shall thereafter carry out the
rehabilitation/construction of the other FTCs, after obtaining the
approval of the Association based on: (i) the review of the three
FTCs referred to above; and (ii) the business plan prepared for such
FTC.
5.    The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1992, set up
a system, which would, on a pilot basis involving two Districts,
test the effectiveness of the automated collection and distribution
of information to farmers, extension agents and researchers.
6.    (a) The Borrower shall implement cost recovery measures to
ensure that KTDA becomes responsible for paying for extension staff
seconded by MOA. Cost recovery measures shall be implemented as
follows: (i) one-third of the total cost shall be recovered in FY
92/93; (ii) two-thirds of the total cost shall be recovered in FY
93/94; and (iii) full cost recovery shall be achieved in FY 94/95.
      (b)   The Borrower shall prepare and implement a schedule of
fees to charge coffee factories which use the services of coffee
engineers employed by MOA.
7.    The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1994, carry out
a reorganization study of MOA and MOLD with the objective of
implementing improved extension technologies and cost-effective
extension services.
8.    The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1994, carry out
a staff deployment study covering the entire MOA and MOLD extension
system. While the study is being carried out, the Borrower shall
ensure that new hiring for MOA and MOLD shall only be done according
to staffing norms acceptable to the Association.
9.    The Borrower shall, until completion of the Project, implement
an action plan, satisfactory to the Association on: (a) achieving
appropriate staffing levels in MOA and MOLD; and (b) raising the
ratio of non-salary to salary operating expenditures for MOA and
MOLD.
10.   The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1991, assign
enough people to MOA's and MOLD's central monitoring units to
specifically focus on monitoring the extension services.
11.   The Borrower shall, not later than January 31, 1994, carry out
studies, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association to
measure the impact and effectiveness of the extension system.  The
studies shall focus on: (a) appropriateness of extension messages
distributed to the farmers; (b) availability of extension
technologies; (c) knowledge and training of extension staff;
(d) workload distribution among extension staff; (e) effectiveness
of contact between extension staff and farmers; (f) cost effective-
ness; (g) cost recovery measures; and (h) sustainability of
extension technologies.
12.   In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the studies
specified in paragraphs 7, 8 and 11 above, the Borrower shall
employ consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
13.   MOA and MOLD shall jointly hold semi-annual meetings of donors
Page  12
and representatives of all agricultural ministries to review
experience gained in implementing extension services and to ensure
complementarity of activities.
14.   The prototype projects to be implemented in Turkana and Wajir
under Part A.2 of the Project shall involve the training of
pastoralists to serve as extension agents and shall concentrate on
water conservation and development, livestock production and health.
15.   In carrying out Part B.3 of the Project involving FSCs and
FTCs the Borrower shall appoint teams comprised of competent staff
to manage each FSC and FTC. Operating costs for the FTCs' demon-
stration farms will be recovered from the sale of produce from such
farms.
16.   For the purposes of Section 9.06 (iii) of the General
Conditions, the Borrower shall submit to the Association at the
beginning of January and July of every year progress reports on the
implementation of the Project.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which replen-
                   ishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
Page  13
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Arti-
cle V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to
the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
Page  14
