Page  1
                                     December 28, 1992
H.E. Professor George Saitoti
Vice President and Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
P. 0. Box 30007
Nairobi
     Re:  Amendments to Development Credit Agreements
          Cr. 1758-KE Animal Health Services Project
          Cr. 1974-KE Rural Services Design Project
          Cr. 2199-KE Second National Agricultural Extension
          Project
Dear Professor Saitoti:
     We refer to the Development Credit Agreements between the
Republic of Kenya (the Borrower) and the International Development
Association (the Association), for the above mentioned projects, and
to your letter dated December 3, 1992 requesting amendments to the
said Development Credit Agreements to assist the Borrower to deal
with the current drought.  The Association agrees to your request
and consequently proposes the following amendments:
A.   Cr. 1758-RE - Animal Health Services Project
     The Development Credit Agreement dated March 6, 1987, as
amended to date, is amended further as follows:
     1.   The date appearing in Section 2.03 of the Development
          Credit Agreement is amended to read "March 31, 1993".
     2.   Part B of Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement
          is amended by the addition thereto of the following new
          paragraph:
     "4. Emergency Recovery Assistance, comprising the carrying out
     of an emergency animal health campaign, through the provision
     of vaccines and drugs, vehicles, equipment and incremental
     operating costs, in the following districts: Wajir, Marsabit,
     Mandera, Garissa, Isiolo, Samburu, Turkana, Kitui, Tana River,
     Makueni, Machakos, Laikipia,Tharaka Nithi, West Pokot, Baringo
     and Nakuru."
     3.   The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
          Development Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
                                Amount of the
                                Credit Allocated    % of
                                (Expressed in       Expenditures
        Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)(ii) Acaricides,
        sera and vaccine        5,020,000            85% up to an aggregate
                                                     amount of
                                                     SDR 4,500,000
                                                     and 65%
                                                     thereafter
(4)Emergency Recovery
   under Part B.4 of the
   Project (vaccines, drugs,    1,700,000            100%
   vehicles, equipment
   and incremental
   operating costs)
Page  2
(5)Unallocated                  1,270,000
     4.   Paragraph 2 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
          Agreement is amended by the addition of the following:
          "(d) the term "incremental operating costs" means the
          incremental costs incurred by the Borrower related to
          the operation and maintenance of vehicles, equipment and
          staff travel related to the Emergency Recovery
          Assistance, and costs incurred in procuring vaccines,
          drugs and veterinary supplies."
B.    Cr. 1974-KE - Rural Services Design Project
     The Development Credit Agreement dated March 6, 1989 is
amended as follows:
     1.   The inclusion, under Part I of the description of the
          Project set out in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
          Agreement, of a new subproject as follows: including
          "Emergency Recovery Assistance.  Provision of
          agricultural inputs (fertilizer and hand tools) in the
          following districts: Wajir, Marsabit, Mandera, Garissa,
          Isiolo, Samburu, Turkana, Kitui, Tana River, Makueni,
          Machakos, Laikipia, Tharaka Nithi, West Pokot, Baringo
          and Nakuru.
     2.   The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
          Development Credit Agreement is amended by the addition
          thereto of a new Category (7) as follows:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated    % of
                         (Expressed in       Expenditures
 Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(7)Fertilizer and hand  1,800,000            100%
   tools under Part I
   of the Project
(8)Incremental Operating  100,000            100%
   Costs under Part I
   of the Project
(9)Unallocated          1,090,000
     3.   Paragraph 2 of Schedule I to the Development Credit
          Agreement is amended by the addition of the following:
          "and (c) the term "incremental operating costs" means
          the costs incurred by the Borrower related to the
          procurement and distribution of fertilizers and hand
          tools."
C.   Cr. 2199-KE - Second National Agricultural Extension Project
     The Development Credit Agreement dated February 21, 1991 is
     amended as follows:
     1.   The description of the Project set out in Schedule 2 to
          the Development Credit Agreement is amended by the
          addition thereto of the following new paragraph: "Part
          E: Emergency Drought Assistance. 1. Acquisition of
          vehicles, equipment and provision of operating costs for
          establishment of a Project Management Unit to coordinate
          implementation of an Emergency Drought Recovery Project,
          and including the preparation of (a) tender documents
          for the rural roads component and (b) action plans for
          the water and health components. 2. Acquisition of
          agricultural inputs (fertilizer and hand tools in the
          following districts: Wajir, Marsabit, Mandera, Garissa,
Page  3
          Isiolo, Samburu, Turkana, Kitui, Tana River, Makueni,
          Machakos, Laikipia, Tharaka Nithi West Pokot, Baringo
          and Nakuru."
     2.   The table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the
          Development Credit Agreement is amended:
                         Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated    % of
                         (Expressed in       Expenditures
 Category                SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)Vehicles             2,590,000            100% of
                                             foreign ex-
                                             penditures and
                                             100% of local
                                             expenditures
                                             (ex-factory
                                             cost)
(7)Emergency Recovery
   Assistance under Part
   E of the Project,
   including fertilizer,
   hand tools and in-
   cremental operating
   costs                1,450,000            100%
(8)Unallocated          3,000,000            100%
     3.   Paragraph 2(c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
          Agreement would be amended to read as follows: "the term
          "incremental operating costs" means the incremental
          costs incurred by the Borrower related to the operation
          and maintenance of buildings, vehicles, office
          equipment, staff travel and aircraft charter related to
          the Project and to the establishment of the Project
          Management Unit, and costs incurred in procuring seeds,
          fertilizers and farm implements and inputs for on-farm
          demonstration activities."
     If you agree to the above amendments, please countersign and
date the duplicate original of this letter in the space provided
below and return the countersigned original to us for our records.
These amendments shall come into effect on the date of
countersignature by you.
                           Sincerely yours,
                       Jacob van Lutsenberg Maas
                            Acting Director
                       Eastern Africa Department
                             Africa Region
CONFIRMED
THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By
     Authorized Representative
Date
Page  4
