Danint of
The World Bank
MOR OFFCiAL USE ONLY
pAgM No. 12396
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANLDESR
T ICAL EDUCTON PROJECT
(CREDIT 1490-ED)
OCTOBER 14, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12396
Type: PCR
Population and Hman Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This docmeot bus a mSicted distiu  and may be  edby recipiets only In the performace of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Saut authorization.



FISCAL YEAR
Julv 1 - June 3Q
ABBREVIATIONS and ACRONYMS
BAU  -    Bangladesh Agriculture University
BIT  -    Bangladesh Institute of Technology
BTEB -    Bangladesh Technical Education Board
DEC  -   Dhaka Engineering College
DTE  -    Directorate of Technical Education
DG   -    Director General of Technical Education
EC   -   Engineering Colleges
GOB  -   Government of Bangladesh
ILO  -    International Labour Office
MOE  -   Ministry of Education
NCSDT-    National Council for Skill Development and Training
ODA  -    British Overseas Development Administration
PIU  -    Project Implementation Unit
P1W  -    Program Inspection Wing
Pp   -    Project Proforma
SFYP -    Second Five-'fear Plan (1980-85)
TTTC -    Technical Teachers Training College
TTC  -    Technical Trainir.gz Center
TEB  -   Technical Education Board
UNDP -   United Nations Development Program
UGC  -   University Grants Commission
VTI  -   Vocational Training Institute
VTTI -   Vocational Teacher Training Institute



FOR OFMCAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washgo, D.C. 20433
U.SA
0Uas of OlrotWi4ene"
OI   evak*in
October 14, 1993
MQORAND&IIREM TO EXECUTIVE DRECFRS AND THE PRESIENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Technical Educatio Project {Credit 1490-BD)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Technical
Education Project (Credit 1490-BD) prepared by the South Asia Regional Office. Part UI
was prepared by the Borrower.
Since it achieved it immediate objetves of strengthening and consolidating
the technical education (TE) sstem, the project outcome is rated as satisfactory.
However, institutional development was only partially met and sustainability is racertain
becase project preparation did not ensure that trainig skills development met labor
market needs, and local funds to maintain and continue to improve the syst fm are scarce,
depending on continued bi-lateral support
The project's satisfactory outcome is remarkable given critical gaps in
preparation of plans for civil works, delayed appointment of key staff and technical
asstance, under-utilization of fellowships, lack of borrower funds, and natural disaster-
which delayed construction.
Success in meeting basic objecdves is largely attibutable to borrower
oommitment to vocational and technical training system consolidation, the motivation of
project and tecmical education college staff and the quality and continuity of Bank
supervsion which led to consuctive dialogue, responsiveness and flexibility throughout
the project's life.
The PCR is detailed and analytical although it may overstate the positive
aspects of Bank and borrower performance.
No audit is planned. However, impact evaluation may be considered in due
course.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attadhment
Thls d_n h a s * lcb dbbbudon and may be usad by reelpierb only In th pedomnnac of their fficial
dud lb oonXnbmay notw oebo dcobwd wn Woe4id Bank ^t_nw.



FOR OMCAuL USE ONLY
PROJECT CQOMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION P-R0jCT
(CREDIT 1490-BD)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page NO.
PREFACE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                      11i
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                1
1.    PROJECT IDENTITY   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .              1
II.  BACKGROUND . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
III.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION   . . . . . . . . . . . . .    2
IV.   PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    4
VI.   PROJECT RESULTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
VII.  PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPANTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
I.    BANK'S PERFORMANCE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
1I.   BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   14
III.  MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   15
PART III, STATISTICAL INFORMATION.. .................   17
A.    RELATED BANK LOANS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . .    17
B.    PROJECT TIMETABLE  .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .    18
C.    LOAN DISBURSEMETS    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   18
D.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   19
E.    PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   20
F.    PROJECT RESULTS  . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    23
G.    STATUS OF CREDIT COVENANTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   25
This document has a restricted ditrbution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of tbeit official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Dank authorizaton.



TABLES
Table 1:  IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Table 2:  PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES'OF PROJECT TIMETABLE       ... .   18
Table 3:  CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS  . . . . . . . . . . .  18
Table 4:  PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS  . . . . . . . . .  19-
Table  5:  PROJECT  COSTS    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  20
Table 6:  PROJECT FINANCING  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .-. . .  21
Table 7:  ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Table 8:  COST ANALYSIS OF PROJECT INSTITUTIONS: APPRAISAL ESTIMATES AND
ACTUAL COSTS FOR CIVIL WORKS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
Table 9:  DIRECT BENEFITS OF PROJECTS  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
Table 10: STUDENT ENROLLMENT DURING PROJECT PERIOD   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
Table 11: COMPLIANCE WITH CREDIT COVENANTS   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
Table 12: STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS ...28
Table 13: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  29
ANNEXES
ANNEX 1:  BANGLADESH TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT - EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS   30
MAP - IBRD 17776 R



i
PROJECT COXPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPIULIC OF BANGMLESH
TEGINICAL EDUCATION M0EJFCT
(CREDIT 149Q-BD)
£REFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Technical
Education Project in Bangladesh, for whirh Credit 1490-BD in the sum of
US$36.0 million (SDR 33.9 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on
Nay 31, 1984. The Credit Closing Date, originally set at December 31, 1990
was extended three times for a total of 18 months to June 30, 1992. Thne
Credit Account was kept open a further 4 months for the settlement of final
withdrawals. The Credit Account was closed on October 31, 1992 and an
undisbursed balance of US$11.0 million (SDR 7.8 million) was cancelled. The
credit was cofinanced by UNDP (US $6.2 million) and ODA (US $4.7 million).
The PCR was prepared by the Population and Human Resources Division,
Country Department I of the South Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary,
Parts I and III). The Borrower assisted in preparing Part II of the PCR and
contributed data for several tables included under Part III.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission in October, 1991 and is based, inter alia. on the Staff
Appraisal Report and related Working Papers, the President's Report, the
Development Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between the
Borrower and the Association, the Project Implementation Monitoring System and
PIU progress reports. Comments were also obtained from IDA staff who
identified, prepared, appraised and supervised the project.
The PCR has been reviewed by the Government of Bangladesh and the
parallel financiers (UNDP and ODA). No substantive comments were received
from the Government and the DNDP. ODA comments have been reflected in the
report as appropriate.



iii
PROJECT COMPLETION KEPOR?
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESR
TEHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1490-BD)
Evaluation Summarv
Project Objectives:
(1)            The project supported the Government's policy of developing an
adequate supply of well trained technical manpower to meet the infrastructure
and industrial development needs of the country. Its main objectives were to:
( 'a) improve the quality of training at the Engineering Colleges and
Polytechnics and (b) improve the management and administration of the
technical education system.
(a)  Oualitv ImDrovement
(i)  Teacher training, curriculum development, and a Practical
Attachment Program, which would emphasize practical skills
training for students and teacher trainees;
(ii) equipment modernization and improvements in maintenance;
and
(iii) physical rehabilitation of academic,hostel and workshop
facilities.
(b) Management and Administration Improvement
(i)  establishment of a Program Inspection Wing (PIW) in the
Directorate of Technical Education to oversee curriculum
development, monitor the adequacy of facilities, equipment
and training materials and liaise with industry and other
agencies to promote the Practical Attachment Program;
(ii) support of procedural and institutional reform in the
Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges; and
(iii) support of examination reform.
Im2lementation Experience
(ii)     Project preparation from initial identification to Board presentation
took about three years (03/81-05/84) due to the initiation on.the part of the
Government of studies and surveys which were directly related to the project's



iv
objectives. The project became effectZve in December, 1984 and was originally
scheduled to be completed in six years. Actual implementation took seven and
a half years with three extensions related to delays with staff appointments
and the completion of civil works.
(iii)    The Credit Agreement was amended twice: (a) to allow for
reimbursement of operational expenditures for the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) and the project institutions, and (b) to increase disbursement
percentage on civil works to compensate for local counterpart funding
constraints.
(iv)     Implementation of the construction program has been satisfactory
throughout the project. Initially this comprised the physical rehabilitation
of academic, hostel and workshop facilities at the project institutions, to
which was added half way through the project the provision of access roads,
water, electricity, etc., which were totally inadequate to meet the needs of
improved learning institutions. Political disturbances, the Gulf War and the
cyclone of 1991 are so many events which have hindered the progress of civil
works. Under these circumstances, physical completion even 18 months past the
original closing date was a remarkable achievement due to the fine
professional work on the part of the consultants, the PIU and a well
functioning construction industry. Similarly for the procurement of
equipment, acquisition for all the institutions went smoothly because of the
experience of the agencies involved in the process (ILO, UNESCO) as well as
the coordinating inputs of the PIU.
(v)      Technical assistance and fellowships provided under the project
through UNDP and ODA financing took a long time to be implemented but were
fully utilized.
Project Results
(vi)     Ouality Improvement:  This objective was largely met in the case of
physical rehabilitation and procurement of equipment for the project
institutions. Despite a late start, the re-establishment of the Technical
Teacher Training College (TTTC) was accomplished and by the end of the project
was providing full-time degree level programs as well as part-time training
according to planned criteria.  Similarly, despite delays, curriculum
development, examination reforms, the Practical Attachment Program, the Tracer
Study and the production of books, all under the guidance of the Bangladesh
Technical Education Board (BTEB),' were completed.
(vii)    Management and Administration Imgrovement:  Despite the relatively
early establishment of the Program Inspection Wing, late staffing and
appointment of the PIW Director, delayed activities of the Inspectorate. Once
in place however, the results produced by this unit have been very rewarding
with far-reaching consequences for the future. The restructuring of the
Engineering Colleges into autonomous Bangladesh Institutes of Technology
(BITs) has improved the quality of teaching at these institutions. Due to the
above delays, the total integration of all activities is not fully completed
J/The TTTC, PIU, PIW and DTE also contributed to the process.



v
'at this time, and the quality improvement brought about by tne project would
have to be qualified as partial.
Pro3jct Sustainability
(viii)    By the closing of the project,' ODA was discussing with the GOB, the
renewal of its assistance to the TTTC, which would ensure a degree of
continuity in training activities. Increased contributions on the part of the
Government after closing of the Credit with respect to (a) the Industrial
Attachment Program¶, (b) the provision'of consumable materials, and (c) the
maintenance of physical facilities, are more problematic, unless partial
contributions for (a) and (b) could come from industry and for (c) through
increased involvement from students, teachers and the PIU. Due to these
reasons, sustainability af the project would have to be qualified as
uncertain.
Conclusions
(ix)     The project took almost four years from identification to  the start
of implementation with no major changes in policy or objectives, thus
reflecting an appropriate concept'and well defined needs. Quality improvement
objectives were fully met in rehabilitating and equipping the project
institutions and despite a very late start, teacher training and curriculum
development activities also contributed to these objectives but were not given
the necessary priority at the start of the project to achieve full impact.
Management and administration improvement objectives suffered equally from
delayed action.  Nevertheless, the strengthening of the Directorate of
Technical Education (DTE) and establishment of the Program Inspection Wing,
the restructuring of the Engineering Colleges and the examination reforms and
tracer work produced by the council of BITs (Bangladesh Institutes of
Technology) and the BTEB should be viewed as positive accomplishments, whose
effects should last well beyond the project itself. Physical implementation
including .construction and procurement of equipment, despite.major logistic
difficulties was handled with great competence and efficiency by the PIU and
the consultant.engineers. The employment prospects for graduates of project
institution were not adequately assessed during appraisal'and a relatively
large portion of new technicians have difficulties to enter the job market.
Project sustainability and the responsiveness of the new curricula to the
requirements of industry and as a result, improved employability, are some
aspects of the project which have yet to be evaluated.
Les$ons Learned.
*  (x)      The principal lessons learned as a result of-implementing the project
are summarized below:
(a) the absorption capacity of the labor market in terms of
employment of graduates from the technical education system
should have been explored more fully at the time of appraisal
(para. 9);



vi
(b) the difficulties of implementing major changes in training and
revising curricula were not fully realized at the conceptual
stage (para. 9);
(c) operational and maintenance expenditures for the Project
Implementation Unit, included in the SAR, were not reflected in
the DCA, thus requiring an amendment to the Credit Agreement
(para. 11);
(d)  provision of basic services and infrastructure at the project
institutions should have been foreseen at appraisal rather than
resulting in a sizeable increase in the cost of civil works
midway through implementation (pa.a. 12);
(e) the ODA-funded technical assistance team and equipment for the
TTTC, which for training purposes should have been in place in
the earliest phase of the project, were among the last to be
implemented, thus suggesting more careful synchronization of
activities (paras. 13 and 15);
(f)  training of the teachers of the Polytechnics and Engineering
Colleges rested entirely on the TTTC which for at least half of
the project was not operational. Better planning in the early
stages of the project would have yielded a more logical
sequencing of activities (para. 16);
(g) major delays occurred in the project through the lack of
decision on staff appointments and technical assistance. In the
planning of future projects, the paralyzing effect of
bureaucratic decisions should be recognized and dealt with
appropriately in formal agreements (paras. 19, 21 and 22);
(h) the verification of employability trends and numbers should be
established through continuing tracer studies (para. 25); and
(i) more frequent and longer supervision missions with a balanced
mix of specialists, particularly in the latter part of
implementation would have been desirable in view of training and
staff appointment difficulties (para. 30).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1490-BD)
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA PERSPECTIVE
I. PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name     Technical Education Project
Credit No        1490-BD
RVP Unit         South Asia Region, Country Department I
Country          Bangladesh
Sector         : Education
II. BACKGROUND
1.       Sectoral.  Technical education is of relatively recent origin in
Bangladesh. From 1947 to 1960 there was no significant development in
technical education except for the establishment of the Dacca Polytechnic
Institute in 1955. A major step followed with the establishment of the
Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) under the Ministry of Education (MOE)
in 1960. By 1980, the Directorate had under its administration, four
Engineering Colleges, 17 Polytechnic Institutes and other institutes
specialized in leather , ceramics, glass and textile technologies and 35
Vocational Training Institutes. While development plans for the post
Independence period of 1972-80 gave priority to vocational/technical
.education, emphasis was placed on reconstruction and expansion of physical
facilities to accommodate increasing enrollments at the expense of training
quality provided by the system.
2.       The Government in its Second Five-Year Plan (1980-85) (SFYP)
recognized the urgent need for reorganizing and strengthening technical
education through consolidation rather than expansion of the system. The Plan
stressed the need to utilize the existing Engineering Colleges and
Polytechnics more fully and to improve the quality of training of engineers
and technicians needed for public and private sector development.
3.       Bank Involvement.  IDA's general strategy in Bangladesh was to
support the Government's policy in the education and training sector and
focused on manpower development through support of specialized (Business
management, Public administration), vocational, technical and agricultural
training, and assistance in expanding and improving the quality of primary
education. At the time of project preparation, the Bank Group had approved
seven previous Credits to the sector totaling US$ 126.0 million. Of these,
four were given to the technical/vocational subsector and clearly reflected
IDA's more specific strategy of supporting technical manpower and



2
consolidating institutional development started under previous projects. The
first of the four Credits (Cr.407-BD, US$ 21.0 million) was signed in 1973 and
closed in 1980. The project was the rosult of consolidating two previous
credits to East Pakistan and consisted of the construction and the equipping
of Polytechnics. The following two technical projects aimed at supporting the
development of technical agricultural manpower (Cr.621-BD of 1976, US$ 12.0
million -nd Cr.1396-BD of 1983, US$ 8.1 million). These Credits were closed
in 1983 and 1989 respectively. The fourth Credit (Cr. 912-BD of 1979, US$
25.0 million) focussed on vocational training and supported the construction
of new Teacher Training Colleges and the establishment of the National Council
for Skill Development and Training (NCSDT). The project closed in 1987.
Despite delays of one to two years, overall experience in implementing these
projects could be qualified as satisfactory on the construction/equipment side
but with variabie results in institutional development and training.
III. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
4.       Prolect Objectives.  The project supported the Government's policy of
developing an adequate supply of well trained technical manpower to meet the
infrastructure and industrial development needs of the country. Its
objectives were to: (a) improve the quality of training at the Engineering
Colleges and Polytechnics and (b) improve the management and administration of
the technical education system.
5.       Prolect Components.
A:     Ouality Improvement.
(i)  Upgrading of the training program for Polytechnic and
Engineering College teachers;
(ii) revision of existing curricula and development and
implementation of new curricula for training of the TTTC,
Polytechnic and Engineering College students;
(iii) development and implementatlon of practical attachment programs
for TTTC, Polytechnic and Engineering College students;
(iv) modernization of equipment through replacement of old equipment
by new and provision of workshop and maintenance equipment at
the TTTC;
(v) construction of new, and renovation and rehabilitation of
existing academic,workshop and hostel facilities, including
provision of furniture at the TTTC, 17 Polytechnics and four
Engineering Colleges and including newly constructed staff
housing at the TTTC.



3
B:     k1anagem nt and Administration ImRrovement,
(i)  Strengthening of the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE)
through the establishment of a Program Inspection Wing (PIW) and
strengthening of the existing Project Implementation Unit;
(ii) strengthening of management and administration of Engineering
Colleges through the establishment of an Executive Board at the
national level and Finance, Planning and Development Committees
at the college level; and
(iii) reform of the examination system at Polytechnics and
Engineering Colleges.
C:     Technical Assistance.
(i) About 22 consultant-years of foreign technical services and 99
staff-years of fellowships financed by ODA and UNDP.
IV. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
6.       Identification and Pregaration.  IDA received a request from the
Government in February 1981 to support consolidation and qualitative
imprQvement in technical education. An IDA mission met with officials of the
DTE in March 1981 and agreed on the preparation of the project. From
identification up to appraisal took about 30 months with details of the
process covered in three Project Briefs dated April 1981, June 1982 and April
1983 respectively. Preparation was somewhat lengthy due to the initiation of
tasks undertaken by the Government with the assistance of UNESCO in areas such
as staff recruitment and training plans, technical assistance requirements,
the review of curricula and surveys of buildings and equipment. The dialogue
developed during the preparatory stages of the project between the Government
and IDA was very good with shared views of problems and policies.
7.       ARpraisal.   The project was appraised in October, 1983 and followed
logically the strategy and objectives outlined in the three Project Briefs,
which in turn were based on sustained dialogue with the Government. Two
issues emerged from the appraisal, namely (i) co-financing and (ii) reduction
of project costs. On the first issue, the Government from the start had
expressed its desire to have all technical assistance inputs financed from
grants, together with the provision of equipment for their respective
components, which ODA and UNDP agreed in principle to take up. The issue,
being one of coordination of experts and procurement of equipment, was largely
resolved through the proposal that the project finance the services of a Chief
Technical Adviser and that equipment for the UNDP component be procured
through the services of EQUIPRO. The second issue resulted from budgetary
constraints both on the part of IDA and the Government, with total project
costs reduced from pre-appraisal estimates by about 25%. This reduction
affected particularly one of the original objectives which was the planned
increase of capacity utilization of project institutions. In practice, it
meant that existing student hostels, although rehabilitated partially through
the project, could not be expanded from an existing 37% to 60% of student



4
enrollment at the Polytechnics and 75X to 100% at the Engineering Colleges.
Although this had been an objective on the part of the Government, it had to*
be dropped from the project.
8.       Negotiations. Financing and Credit Effectiveness.  Negotiations took
place as anticipated in Washington in April 1984 and were preceded the same
month by co-financing discussions.  During negotiations, the Government
requested, and IDA agreed, to an increase in the Credit from $30 I million to
$36.0 million in order to increase the disbursement percentage fo civil
works. With grants of $6.2 million from UNDP, $4.7 million from ODA and an
IDA credit of $36.0 million, total foreign financing amounted to 90% of total
net project costs.2 The Credit was declared effective eight months later, in
December 1984.  The somewhat long delay was due to the approval of the Project
Proforma (PP), an internal Governmental procedure, at several ministerial
levels, together with the signing of separate agreements with ODA and UNDP.
9.       In summary, during a period of nearly four years, from initial
identification to the start of implementation, there were no major changes in
policy or objectives, thus pointing to a clear and appropriate concept. The
project was innovative in creating the PIW and its monitoring efforts,
devising "ad hoc" instructor training when teachers were available and
recommending the autonomy of the Engineering Colleges. Whereas the scope of
the project was right, the scale was possibly too ambitious in terms of
training and curricula. It should also be noted that since the time of
appraisal, the Bank has put more emphasis on labour market and employment
issues. These issues including.prospective employment of technical education
graduates have not been elaborated on extensively in the appraisal report.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
10.      Project Duration and Extensions.  Implementation of rhe project, as
reflectid in the Credit documents, was estimated to take six years with an
original Closing Date set at December 31, 1990. The project was extended
three times: (i) by 12 months to December 31, 1991 because of delays due. to
the lengthy bureaucratic clearance process; restrictions on recruitment and
delays with civil works. The latter included additional rehabilitation work at
the project institutes that were necessary but which were not foreseen at
appraisal; (ii) by three months to March 31, 1992 due to calamitous rains and
floods which occurred in July and August, 1991 and which disrupted transport
and construction activities; and (iii) by another three months 'to June 30,
1992 to fully complete residual civil works and equipment procurement.
11.      Project Amendments.- The Credit was amended in January, 1989 to allow
the reimbursement of payments made for operational and maintenance
expenditures (vehicles, utilities, communications etc.) for the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and the 22 project institutes. These had been
2/The UNDP grant covered technical assistance for the DTE, Curriculum
Development, Examination Reform and supplemental equipment for the
Polytechnics. UNDP also financed a tracer study to assess employment outcome
of Polytechnic graduates. The ODA grant financed technical assistance and the
provision of equipment for the TTTC.



5
included in the appraisal. report but were not reflected in the DCA. A second
amendment took place in November, 1989 to adjust the disbursement percentage
for civil works from 80% to 87.5% in order to compensate for local counterpart
funding constraints.
12.      Physical Rehabilitation.  One of the main objectives of the project
was to'improve the quality of training at the TTTC, the Engineering Colleges
and Polytechnics through the physical rehabilitation of academic, hostel and
workshop facilities. Implementation of the construction program has been
generally satisfactory throughout the project as reported by IDA supervision
missions although slow progress of civil works at the TTTC placed critical
constraints on starting training programs and installing equipment. The
original civil works program included mostly repair and maintenance of
existing buildings at the project institutions and took 80X of funds in the
civil works category, while the construction of new facilities absorbed the
difference. Because of welL established contracting procedures in the country
as well as sustained supervision on the part of the consultant engineers,
architects and the'PIU, this program benefitted from an early start and would
have reached completion within the original time schedule established at
appraisal without subsequent changes brought about during implementation.
These came about through a realization on the part of both the Government and
IDA that infrastructure and services at the project institutions were totally
inadequate to meet the needs and criteria required by improved learning
environments.  In most of the institutions there were acute shortages of gas.
water and electricity, insufficient drainage and sewerage capacity and poor
access roads. Remedying this situation became a priority which was addressed
through the Government's preparation of a new Project Proforma in 1989,
increasing the civil works envelope from Taka 386 million to Taka 588 million.
Since the Government was unable to assume this increase on its own, it
requested the Association for an increase in reimbursement percentage as per
para.lO(i) above. These changes were implemented following IDA's approval in
January, 1990 and were therefore responsible largely for the first extension
-of the Credit. Despite political disturbances and'the Gulf War which slowed
progress between September 1990 and February 1991, civil works could have been
completed by the first extension deadline, save for the cyclone which hit
Bangladesh in April, 1991 followed by heavy rains and floods in August and
September, 1991. Under these circumstances, completion of the project 18
months past the original closing date was a remarkable achievement.
13.      EgUigment Modernization. Procurement of equipment for the project
institutions was divided in three separate exercises. The largest share (USS
10.5 million) financed by IDA and procured tirough ILO/EQUIPRO provided
specialized workshop and laboratory equipment for 17 Polytechnics and 2
Engineering Colleges. Equipment for the Bangladesh Technical Education Board
(BTEB) and 2 Engineering Colleges was provided through UNDP separate and
parallel financing and procured through UNESCO (US$ 1.2 million), while ODA,
through similar financial arrangements, financed and equipped the TTTC through
its own procurement procedures (US$ 2;4 million equivalent). Since equipment
needs and lists for most of the institutions had been identified and
quantified during project preparation, contracts were awarded in the early
stages of implementation and delivery and installation generally completed in
1988. The TTTC on the other hand was equipped in the last two years of
implementation due to the slow progress of civil works at the institution and
the late appointment of ODA's technical assistance team, which placed critical
constraints on the start of training programs and the'installing of equipment.



6
The failure to have the technical assistance team in place early in the
project made it difficult to relate equipment specification to the training
programs. Much of the equipment specified for the Polytechnics, particularly
in mechanical engineering, led to the ordering of large scale industrial
production machines rather than more appropriate and cheaper training units.
Also much of the equipment specified was for craft level training rather than
technician training offered at these institutions. With respect to IDA's
equipment, a second procurement tranche was initiated in 1990/91 to cover
residual equipment which had not been initially foreseen as well as spare
parts. Delivery took place during the last twelve months of implementation.
TDespite different methods of procurement related to sources of financing,
acquisition of equipment for all the institutions went smoothly because of the
experience of the Agencies involved as well as the coordinating inputs of the
PIU.
14.      Teacher Training.  One of the major objectives of the project was to
improve the quality of training imparted at the Engineering Colleges and
Polytechnics, through teacher training programs and staff development at the
TTTC. Despite the importance and centrality of this objective, its
realization was arduous with many delays occurring during the first three
years of implementation.
15.      TTTC., Prior to appraisal, the TTTC although existing in principle,
had been converted into the Dacca Engineering College (DEC) largely in
response to the demand from Polytechnic graduates for access to degree
programs. In reorganizing and revitalizing the TTTC, the project included
the rehabilitation of existing academic facilities vacated by the DEC (which
was relocated in the same area of Dacca), the construction of student hostels
and the appointment of teaching staff. While rehabilitation and construction
proceeded on schedule, appointing key personnel as well as training them
suffered serious delays due to cumbersome Governmental review and approval
procedures. For instance, by the middle of 1989 only half of the 32 faculty
members were in post, of which 5 had received training and only 3 man-years of
a total of 24 man-years of available fellowships had been utilized. Another
cause of delay was the late appointment of the ODA Chief Technical Adviser
(CTA) and subject specialists. Although recruitment procedures were
initiated relatively early in the project, there was no interest at first in
response to advertisements and the first candidate for the post of CTA was
turned down by the Government. The CTA and his team were eventually in post
at the end of 1988. Ongoing construction at the TTTC premises together with
the shortage of teaching staff affected the quality and number of training
programs during most of the implementation period. With repeated concern and
advice on the part of IDA supervision missions, measures were finally taken by
the MOE to obtain the necessary Government clearances to remedy the situation.
It is only in the last two years of implementation that good progress was made
in staff development and the project was completed achieving a nearly full
complement of staffing at the TTTC and a satisfactory utilization of
fellowships, although 11 members of the TTTC have still to receive UK based
training.
16.      Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges.  As part of the overall
objective of improving the quality of technical education through better
trained teachers, the project included the training of teachers of the PIs and
the ECs to be conducted at the TTTC. Along with the difficulties described in
para.15 above which made early training nearly impossible, there was already



7
at the start of the project a 20% shortage of teachers at these institutions
which made the detachment of teachers for training purposes very difficult
since the institutions would be left with insufficient staff to conduct their
regular teaching programs. In addition, the Government had established a ban
on recruitment of teachers which lasted nearly three years and proved a major
impediment to training (due to these reasons, no teachers from the Engineering
Colleges were able to attend training programs at the TTTC). The start in
earnest of the TTTC activities in 1988, the help of ODA's technical assistance
team and the recruitment of additional teachers, caused training to finally
take off with full time training programs leading to Bachelor and Diploma
levels in technical education. The TTTC also provided more than 100 short
courses of 1 to 4 weeks duration to more than 1000 teachers and
administrators.
17.      Curriculum DeveloRment and Examination Reforms.  The objective was to
improve the practical aspects of courses and develop curricula more related to
advances in technology and the future needs of industry, commerce ahd
Government. This was to be achieved by review and revision of existing
curricula, examination reforms, practical attachment programs, and an
increased supply of books and training materials. Implementation of
curriculum revision, under the auspices of the Bangladesh Technical Education
Board (BTEB), was carried out effectively and at the early stages of the
project with respect to the Polytechnics. By the end of 1985, the existing
curricula (dating from the late'1960's) for each of the three years in nine
technologies had been converted into behavioral objective format and copies
issued to teachers and students. However the implementation of curriculum
reform was only initiated in 1990 following the allocation of ODA funding.
Revision of curricula for the Engineering Colleges was undertaken one year
later and had to wait until these institutions, which were affiliated to the
zonal universities, were converted through Government ordinance into
autonomous Bangladesh Institutes of Technology (BITs). Following this initial
phase, the BTEB undertook a tracer study financed by UNDP to assess the job
performance of graduates and the efficiency of the PIs and BITs. The findings
of the study in turn were utilized to bring the curricula of these
institutions more in line with job requirements and new technologies along
with a plan to involve employers, the TTTC, PIs and technical committees in
the process. Under the overall guidance of the BTEB, examination reforms also
followed closely the changes brought about in curricula and reflected the
outcome of the'tracer study.
18.      Practical Attachment and Books.  Because of the weak practical
content of the original curricula at the PIs and BITs, the industrial
attachment program was introduced in 1986. The following year, while a second
round of practical attachment was organized, the BTEB prepared an evaluation
of the first year activities. This process continued in the following years
of implementation with the introduction of modifications brought about as a
result of the various studies/surveys done by the BTEB. In all, about 21,000
students will have received training through this program. Another successful
part of the project which contributed in achieving better qualified graduates
was the increased availability of-books for teachers and students. Under the
responsibility of the BTEB and TTTC, 51 titles were produced in Bengali (about
128,500 copies) for the use of Polytechnics while technical books in English
for teachers and the use of the TTTC were procured through UNESCO.



8
19.      Strengthening the Department of Technical Education.  In the light of
curricular changes and major investment in the sector and the objective of
improving management, the DTE was strengthetned through the establishment of a
Program Inspection Wing (PIW) or Inspectorate with the following functions:
(i) ensure that courses are conducted in accordance with curricular
requirements; (ii) act as an advisory service to principals and staff of the
institutions with respect to proposals initiated by the DTE; (iii) liaise
with institutions on equipment repair and maintenance; and (iv) promote the
practical experience attachment program.   Partial sta,-ing of the PIW took
place in 1985, but the appointment of its director, again due to bureaucratic
delays had to wait until early 1989, thus lessening its effectiveness.
Progress however had been made in the interim on the practical attachment
program and once the director was in place, the other functions followed suit.
Because of the excellent support from the PIW, management of technical
education by the DTE improved significantly. By 1991, sessions and exams were
held on schedule, teacher attendance improved and students showed more
interest in their studies. This has been accomplished through periodic
reports on the performance of the Polytechnic Institutes (PIs) including
admissions, enrollment, dropouts, examinations, output and staffing. The PIW
also introduced a system for the self evaluation of the performance of
teachers and produces a comprehensive annual report for each PI. With respect
to industrial attachment, the program has been made an integral part of the
curriculum, is well accepted by students and emplcyers and the continued good
relations between the PIW and industry insures that it evolves according to
realistic parameters.
20.      Restructuring the Engineering Colleges.  The primary goal of
restructuring the Engineering Colleges into autonomous BITs was to improve the
quality of engineers trained at these institutions. By ordinance of March 12,
1986, a Council of Institutes was set up to perform the functions of a Board
of Governors for a period of 5 years after which individual Academic Councils
would be set up. With the signing of the ordinance, a major step was taken
which was followed by revisions and improvements to the curriculum and
examinations, upgrading faculties through fellowships and strengthening
management and administration. The quality of teaching at the BITs should
improve as a result of the increased autonomy and also due to improved
facilities, equipment and books provided under the project.
21.      Proiect Risks and Unforeseen Factors Affecting Implementation.  The
introduction of practical attachment programs in the TTTC, Colleges and
Polytechnics, which was seen at appraisal as a difficult process, did not in
fact create anticipated problems and was not a risk to the project. In
hindsight, a far more. difficult process was the institutional development
aspect which absorbed much more implementation time, required more training
and upgrading of staff already working in these institutions and achieving
staff appointments. What was not foreseen but should have been, were the long
delays in appointing staff and technical experts at the TTTC and appointing
the Director of the PIW due to intractable official procedures and sanctions.
Another unforeseen risk was the politicizing of students and protests which
hindered progress through frequent closings of the PIs and BITs, the
postponement of exams and difficulties in meeting curriculum requirements.
Finally, the cyclone of April 1991 followed by calamitous rains and floods
four months later, affected all operations in the country for most of that
year and could not possibly have been foreseen.



9
22.      Decisions AffectLng Implementation.  Positive decisions and factors
affecting project implementation were the appointments of the Project
Implementation Unit Director and the local professional consultants who in
cooperation managed all construction and procurement activities, the UNESCO
Chief Technical Adviser who managed the selection of experts and fellowships
for all the institutions and the local British Council which followed the
project closely. On the negative side, the lack of decision in the timely
appointments of institutional staff and key management positions seriously
hindered implementation. Although this was flagged repeatedly by IDA
supervision missions, there appeared to be no official solution or remedy to a
process which was clearly undermining many positive accomplishments of the
project.
VI. PROJECT RESULTS
23.      Ouality Improvement: Civil Works/Equipment.  This objective was
largely met in the case of physical rehabilitation and procurement of
equipment for the project institutions (paras 12,13). Despite the project
being extended by 18 months past the original Closing Date, civil works were
implemented with smoothness considering several factors totally beyond the
project's control.  Objectives were not only met but exceeded since, in the
second phase, most institutions were provided with basic services which had
not been foreseen at appraisal. Similarly with equipment, this phase provided
complementary equipment mostly related to maintenance.
24.      Ouality Imorovement: Teacher Training/Curriculum DevelopMnnt.
Despite a late start, the re-establishment of the TTTC was successfully
accomplished and by the end of the project, full-time programs leading to
Degree and Diploma levels in technical education were fully established and
short duration courses had been provided to over 1,000 teachers and
administrators. Staffing had reached a full complement while all fellowships
for staff upgrading had been utilized (paras. 14-16). Curriculum Development,
examination reforms, the practical attachment programs and the production of
books, all under the combined guidance of the BTEB, TTTC, PIU, PIW,and DTE met
the objectives established at appraisal (paras. 17,18). The project provided
the framework to carry out all the above activities but the fact that these
achievements came very late in the project makes an assessment of the
institutional development objectives difficult at best. The software such as
curriculum development and teacher training were delayed and out of phase with
the delivery and installation of hardware, thus complicating the necessary
integration of these activities. Consequently in the absence of tangible
indicators, quality improvement brought about by the project would at this
time have to be qualified as partial.
25.      Tracer study.   A Tracer Study, funded through UNDP and administered
through the BTEB, was conducted over a period of 11 months in 1990. The
purpose of the Study was to evaluate the employability of graduates and the
internal efficiency of the Polytechnic Institutes in order to revise the
policy and objectives of diploma level engineering courses as well as
curricula. The main conclusions of the study were that about 2/3 of the



10
graduates were able to find empliyment within 18 months of their graduation .
There were numerous recommendatiois made with respect to internal efficiency
of the Institutes and staff trainit.g including phasing power engineering out
of some institutes and replacir.g it by electronics for improved employability.
The BTEB and PIW have been charged with following up on these recommendations
and translating them into curriculum revisions. With respect to the study's
results, a verification of numbers and trends should be established through
follow-up tracer studies. Employment in Bangladesh as well as in the Gulf
States would-have to be taken into consideration.
26.      Management Improvement: Strengthening the DTE/Restructuring of ECs.
Once more the late appointment of the PIW Director delayed activities of the
Inspectorate for several years, but once in place, the results of this unit
have been very rewarding (para. 19). The restructuring of the Engineering
Colleges into autonomous BITs should improve the quality of teaching at these
institutions (para. 20).
27.      Project Impact.  At the macro level, the project contributed in
principle to better prepared technicians for the agriculture, industry and
infrastructure (telecoms, roads etc.) sectors. In terms of out-migration of
workers, a major source of foreign exchange for the country, improvements in
the quality of training of technicians and engineers provided through the
project should result in Increased accessibility to foreign jobs. At the
sector level, better institutional eapability should, in the long run, result
in better policies since with the PIW in place, policy makers will have the
necessary data, diagnostic and strategic information, to develop these
policies. With respect to human resource development, the project contributed
to the training of technicians, engineers, the upgrading of PI teachers and to
a new faculty with high qualifications at the TTTC. The revival of this
institution and its key role in the sector is a major. legacy of the project,
as well as the major improvements brought to the BITs. In terms of physical
environment, the project contributed substantially in improving all the
institutions with increased facilities but specially by providing badly needed
infrastructure such as roads, sewerage/drainage and utilities.
28.      Project Sustainability.  The proposed extension of support to the
TTTC by ODA, would be a positive development toward sustaining the project and
some of its objectives and would enable the technical assistance team to
complete work presently in progress. Some questions however remain in the
broader technical education context, namely, whether the Government can
sustain increased contributions (once the project's financial assistance
ceases) towards the industrial attachment program, the maintenance of physical
facilities and the provision of consumable materials.   These are risk factors
which should be addressed through industry contributions to the program
(Polytechnics however have to convince industry of the relevance of their
training to meet its needs), more involvement on the part of teachers and
students for maintenance and devising income producing services to reduce the
Government's share in the above recurrent expenditures. In this respect, the
polytechnics could for instance develop consultancy services to help industry
solve real problems.. Since it appears unlikely at this point that the
.J/ The findings of this study are not to be confused with the conclusions
reached by the Bank's Vocational and Technical Education Review (1990), which
dealt exclusively with the vocational training subsector and did not consider
the Polytechnics and Higher Technical Education institutions. The findings of
that review were that only about 30P of enrolling students were gainfully
emploYed in fields related to their training.



11
Government's budget would increase for this purpose nor that industry would
contribute substantially more, the project's sustainability should be
qualified as uncertain.
VII. PERFORMANCE OF PARTICIPANTS
29.      IDA Performance.  Staff contribution to the project in all its phases
could be qualified as professional as well as supportive. Preparation went
smoothly with frequent dialogue with the Government and ODA and UNDP as co-
financing institutions. Project design was clear in concept with logical
division of components between IDA and the co-financiers. The objective of
improving the quality of technical education with the TTTC at its core was
basically sound but minimized the difficulties of revitalizing an institution
which existed only in name at the time of preparation and which was designed
to be the center for most of the project's training. Due to their
interdependency, the TTTC and the other technical institutions were upgraded
simultaneously and equipment ordered ahead of staff training in the use of
such equipment, whereas ideally they should have been implemented in sequence,
thus avoiding many of the difficulties experienced with staff development and
overall delays in the training programs.
30.      IDA supervision missions were carried out regularly at first every
six months, but with longer intervals later on in the project, and despite
most of them being one person missions, were very helpful in assessing the
situation and finding solutions to problems, particularly those related to the
software aspects of the project and which required sustained attention.
Despite this assistance, they were not able to break through the time
consuming procedures of the Government in appointing the required number of
staff for the institutions and teachers and trainers for the new programs. In
retrospect, the addition of a financial/public administration specialist and
other specialists to some of the supervision missions would have been helpful
in resolving some of these issues.
31.      IDA showed considerable flexibility in extending the project three
times (para. 10) and in amending the Credit Agreement which helped with
operational expenditures and compensated for local counterpart funding
constraints (para 11).
32.      Borrower Performance. Design, construction, the procurement of goods
and services and the keeping of accounts was successfully managed throughout
the project by the PIU which was strengthened under the project. The able
direction of the PIU was shared between two project directors, the first from
1985-1991 (until his retirement) and the second from 1991 to the completion of
the project. This aspect of the project, including the submission of audits
in conformity with IDA's requirements, was relatively problem free and can be
qualified as very successful. Management of the academic aspects of the
project unfortunately did not keep pace with the above progress, although
quality improvements are notoriously more difficult to implement. A similar
Board to the one adopted for the transitional management of the BITs should
have been adopted for the Polytechnics which could have accomplished better
coordination of training activities and staff development. Considering the
difficulties involved and the delays experienced and repeatedly highlighted in
this report, the end result is far from negative. The DTE/PIW did some
excellent work in the short period of the project it has been fully



12
operational and similarly the BTEB has done important groundwork in curriculum
development, examination reforms, tracer studies, etc., with far-reaching
consequences beyond the limits of the project.
33.      Project Relationships.  The qualified success achieved by the project
was the result of cordial working relationships between IDA and the Borrower.
There were also very good relationships established from the onset between
IDA, ODA and UNDP in formulating the project, which were carried throughout
implementation. During the project, UNESCO for technical assistance and
ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement of equipment also worked in close cooperation
with the Borrower and IDA. Dialogue between the Government and IDA was
sustained, amiable and direct at all times even in consideration of the slow
response or action to certain specific issues.
34.      Consulting Services to the PIU.  The 'n'.al firm of
architects/engineers responsible for the design and overlooking the
construction aspects of the project performed satisfactorily particularly in
view of the difficulties experienced as a result of the 1991 cyclone and
ensuing floods. The quality of construction was generally good, cost control
efficient and supported by a reporting system which provided accurate
information on the progress of civil works, and similarly, the work of
ILO/EQUIPRO in procuring highly specialized equipment for the project was very
satisfactory.
35.      Project Documentation and Data.  All IDA project documents referred
to in this report were well prepared. The appraisal report was concise, well
written and, together with the working papers, provided excellent reference
material for the implementation phase. Supervision reports concentrated
appropriately on the software aspects of the project and were helpful in
understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the project.
VIII. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
36.      The Technical Education Project, took almost four years from
identification to the start of implementation with no major changes in policy
or objectives, thus reflecting an appropriate concept and well defined needs.
Quality improvement objectives were fully met in rehabilitating and equipping
the project institutions and despite a very late start,, teacher training and
curriculum development activities also contributed to these objectives, but
were not given the necessary priority at the start of the project to achieve
full impact. In sum, the project should have been "curriculum led" rather than
"equipment led". Nanagement and administration improvement objectives suffered
equally from delayed action. The employment prospects for graduates of project
institutions were not adequately assessed during appraisal. Project
sustainability and the responsiveness of the new curricula to the requirements of
industry and as a result,improved employability, are some aspects of the project
which have yet to be evaluated and the need for tracer studies to be carried out
on a continuous basis.- Nevertheless, the strengthening of the DTE and
establishment of the Program InspectiQn Wing, the restructuring of the Engineering
Colleges and the examination reforms and tracer work produced by the BTEB should
be viewed nevertheless as positive accomplishments, whose effects should last well
beyond the life of the project. Physical implementation including construction
and procurement of equipment, despite major logistic difficulties was handled with
great competence and efficiency by the PIU and the consultant engineers.



13
37.      Lessons Learned.  The principal lessons learned as a result of
implementing the project are summarized below:
(a) the absorption capacity of the labor market in terms of employment
of graduates from the technical education system should have been
explored more fully at tbe time of appraisal (para.9);
(b)  the difficulties of implementing major changes in training and
revising curricula, were not fully realized at the conceptual stage
(para. 9);
(c) operational and maintenance expenditures for the Project
Implementation Unit, included in the SAR, were not reflected in the
DCA, thus requiring an amendment to the Credit Agreement (para. 11);
(d)  provision of basic services and infrastructure at the project
institutions should have been foreseen at appraisal rather than
resulting in a sizeable increase in the cost of civil works midway
through implementation (para. 12);
(e) the ODA-funded technical assistance team and equipment for the TTTC,
which for training purposes should have been in place in the
earliest phase of the project, were among the last to be implemented
thus suggesting more careful synchronization of activities (paras.
13 and 15);
(f) training for teachers of the PIs and ECs rested entirely on the TTTC
which for at least half of the project was not operational. Better
planning in the early stages of the project would have yielded a
more logical sequencing of activities (para. 16);
(g) it took from 1985 to 1989 to make the PIW effective through
appointing a director. Major delays occurred in the project through
the lack of decision on staff appointments and technical assistance.
In the planning of future projects, the paralyzing effect of
bureaucratic decisions should be recognized and dealt with
appropriately in formal agreements (paras. 19, 21 and 22);
(h) the verification of employment trends and needs should be
established through continuing tracer studies (para. 25); and
(i)  more frequent and longer supervision missions with a balanced mix of
specialists, particularly in the latter part of implementation would
have been desirable in view of training and staff appointment
difficulties (para. 30).



14
PART II:PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
I. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
The Bank's personnel were highly professional in all respect. The
officials in the local Resident Mission, responsible for programs and
accounting from Effectiveness to the Closing of the Project, were vigilant and
alert to solve problems. As many as nine4 supervision missions visited
Bangladesh to review implementation of the Project.  Mission members included
Technical Education Specialists and Architects. Mr. J. Bredie, Technical
Education Specialist participated in every mission and was accompanied by
Messrs. G. Sinclair and A. Andonyadis, Architects each on one occasion. The
Chief of the Population and Human Resources Division in Washington, Mr. M.
Karcher visited Bangladesh several times during implementation and the
Technical Project was fortunate to have his kind attention to solve many
problems and issues. Quick decisions on the part of Mr. Karcher from
Washington and untiring efforts of Mr. Bredie during supervision missions
played a key role in the successful completion of the Project. However some
shortcomings were also evident:
(a) the ultimate goal of the Project was the qualitative
improvement of technical education and much has been done
to achieve this through the technical education courses
offered in Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges.
Unfortunately there was no provision to improve the quality
of the products of Mono Technic Institutions (College of
Textile Technology, College of Leather Technology,
Institute of Graphic Arts, Institute of Glass & Ceramics
and Survey Institute). Efforts were made (Aide Memoire of
February 24, 1988 submitted by Bank supervision mission and
Project Review meeting held on May 8, 1988) to include
these institutions in the revised Project, but to no avail;
(b) reimbursement percentage against the Civil Works category
was increased from 80.0% to 87.5% to alleviate the
Government's share of matching funds but unfortunatoly was
not provided from the date of Credit Effectiveness.
II. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
Performance of the project personnel involved in overall project
planning was quite good.   Personnel involved directly in the implementation
process were the Project Implementation Unit staff members and the heads of
Project Institutions. Performance of the participating Institutions was also
quite good.  Most of the heads of these Institutions took up the project as a
prestigious one and worked towards achieving the established goals. The
indirectly involved personnel working in the Directorate of Technical
Education, Ministry of Education and the Planning Commission, Ministry of
Finance had a keen interest in the Project and did excellent work in decision
making, the release of funds, sending faculty members and administrators
4/ According to IDA files, there were 11 supervision missions (see Table 13).



15
abroad under the fellowship program, training teachers and
workshop/laboratory/library staff within the country and supervising and
monitoring the whole project, Curriculum upgrading work, although much
emphasized in the Appraisal Report, was not reflected in the original scheme.
However curriculum revision was taken up in the revised scheme by the
Bangladesh Technical Education Board with the assistance of ODA, which
provided funds as well as services of experts and which is continuing to do
so.
During implementation, the Project faced several natural calamities
such as the unprecedented floods of 1987, 1988 and 1990 and a devastating
cyclone and tidal wave in the coastal areas in 1991. There was also political
unrest which led to the transfer of power to a democratic government. As a
result of all these events, progress on the Project was seriously slowed down
but delays were mede up later, to the extent possible, by the hard working
project personnel.
Equipment for the 19 Institutions (17 Polytechnics and 2 Engineering
Colleges) amounting to US$10.0 million equivalent was received in 1988, much
ahead of schedule and ILO (EQUIPRO), in charge of processing the whole
program, did a commendable job. In tendering the equipment however, it was
not possible to receive quotations for a number of items, which resulted in
savings under this category. The left out items mainly for Electrical,
Electronics, Power and Mechanical Technology, which were essential items, were
eventually procured through EQUIPRO under the revised scbe'^
The Government failed to utilize about US$6.0 million equivalent
which sum reverted ultimately to the Bank. This sum could have been utilized
for the physical rehabilitation of the 6 MonoTechnic Institutes, which were
left out of the Project but which would.have improved the overall quality of
Technical Education and-the training of Engineers, Technologists and
Technicians.
While the Development Credit Agreement was amended to increase the
reimbursement percentage for civil works which resulted in savings for the
Government, the Borrower failed or was unable-to use these savings for project
related purposes.
III. MAJOR LESSONS LEARNED
(a) the appointment of experts; and particularly the Chief
Technical Adviser (CTA) should be made immediately after
Project Effectiveness. In this case, appointments were
delayed by more than one year;
(b)  lists of equipment with detailed specifications should be
carefully made to meet the demand of modern technology
including proper installation and the training of teachers
in the use of such equipment;
(c) any Project having more than one donor should have a
Central Coordinating Unit (in this case, the PIU) with
clearly stated responsibilities and authority throughout
the life of the Project;



16
(d)  communications between the Bank and the Borrower with
respect to reimbursement and replenishment should be well
and sufficiently documented; and
(e) the performance of UNDP, one of two co-financiers was
evaluated by a team comprising members from UNDP, UNESCO
and the Government and the findings were very useful in the
solution of some problems. A similar evaluation with
respect to ODA, the other co-financier, made by a team
including members from ODA, UNESCO, IDA and the Government
would have been equally useful.



17
PART III: STATISTICAL INFOEMATION
A. Related Bank Loans
Takla 1: IDA CREDITS RELEVANT TO THE PROJECT
Credit Number   Year of       Purpose of Project
Project Title   approval   Result of consolidation    Status            Comments
Cr. 407-BD      1973        Result of consolidation   Completed   Project suffered
of two previous credits   12/1981      delays due to post-war
to East Pakistan:  (a)                 conditions and short-
completing development                 ages of materials,
of Bangladesh Agricul-                 local funds and man-
ture University (BAU);                 agement capacity
(b) construction of 5
new Polytechnics and
equipping 8 ither Poly-
technics
Cr. 621-BD      1976        Supporting the develop-   Completed   Project accomplished
ment of technical agri-   12/1983      goal of establishing
culture manpower                       infrastructure for
through establishing 3                 agricultural training
new Agriculture Train-                 system but did not
ing Institutes (ATIs),                 improve quality of ATI
an Academy for Rural                   Training
Development and 15
Farmer Training Centers
Cr. 912-BD      1979        Strengthening vocation-   Completed   Buildings built; limi-
al training for skilled   06/1987      ted staff training but
workers through (a)                    outcome generally
construction of 5 new                  disappointing; insti-
TTCs; and (b) estab-                   tutions not function-
lishment of National                   ing as intended
Council for Skill Deve-
lopment and Training
(NCSDT)
Cr.1396-BD      1983        Continued support for      Completed   Project did not fully
development of tech-      06/1989      achieve its objectives
nical agricultural man-                due to late or inade-
power through (a) agri-                quate inputs
cultural technician
training; (b) career
development for exten-
sion agents; and (c)
extending Agricultural
Management Development
Program



.                   .             ~~~~~~~~~~~18
B.  h2oect Timetable
Table 2: PLANNED, REVISED AND ACTUAL DATES OF PROJECT TIMETABLE
Item               Planned Date    Revised Date    Actual Date
Identification Mission         09/81             -            09/81
Preparation Mission            03/82             -            03/82
Pro-appraisal I Mission        03/83             -            03/83
Pro-appraisal II Mission       06/83             -            06/83 -
Appraisal Mission               10/83            -            10/83
Loan Negotiations              03/84             -            04/84
Board Approval                                  0- 5/31/84
Loan Signature                                   -            07/25/84
Loan Effectiveness             10/84             -            12/20/84
Project Completion             12/90        12/31/91          06/30/92
C. Loan Disbursements
Table 3: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in US$000)
Bank FY                         1985  1986    1987    1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Appraisal estimate             0.50    4.38   11.94  23.82 .30.30  34.26  36.00    -
Actuai                          0.15    4.58   14.98  18.10  25.03  27.07  29.62  33.14
Actual as Z of estim4te        30.0   104.0   125.0   75.9   82.6   79.01  82.3   92.1
Date of Final Disbursement                 10/26/92



19
D.  Project o me lementation
Table A4: PLANNED AND ACTUAL COMPLETION DATES OF COMPONENTS
Polytechnics                             PART 1
Planned
Project        Completion          Revised           Actual           Months
Components       (Appraisal)       Completion        Completion        of Delay
1.  Dhaka        10/88             --               3/92              n. a5
2.  Chittagong   10/88                               10/91            n.a.
3.  Khulna       10/88                              11/91             n.a.
4.  Rajshahi     10/88                               2/92             n.a.
5.  Mymonshing   10/88                              7/92              n.a.
6.  Comilla      10/88             -                6/91              n.a.
7.  Barisal      10/88                              3/92              n.a.
8.  BogrA        10/88                              11/91             n.a.
9.  Rangpur      10/88             .                2/92              n.a.
1i. Pabna        10/88                              3/92              n.a.
11. Sylhet       10/88         _ -                  12/91             n.a.
12. Feni         10/88                              2/92              n.a.
13. Kaptai       10/88                              2/92              n.a.
14. Faridpur     10/88                              11/91             n.a.
15. Jessore      10/88                  7           1/92              n.a.
16. Kushtia      10/88             -                12/91             n.a.
17. Dinajpur     10/88             -                10/91             n.a.
PART 2
Planned
Project         Completion         Revised           Actual           Months
Components       (Appraisal)       Completion        Completion        of Delay
18. Chittagong   10/88             -                3/92              n.a.
19. Khulna       10/88                              12/90             n.a.
20. Rajshahi     10/88                              4/90              n.a.
21. Dhaka        10/87                              12/88             n.a.
22. TTTC         10/88                              3/92              n.a.
2/New buildings, roads, and services were added at each institution midway
through the project, thus making delay in completion not applicable.



. Project Costs and Financins
Table 5: PgOJECT oSTS
(Take iEition)
Original Estimate                    Revised Estimate                        Actual Costs
Category                                     Local     Foreign        Total       Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total
1. Civit works including
- land deveLopment                         368.757       -          368.757    587.656        -         587.656      607.519              607.519
2. Eoufmoent:
(a) CIF cost                               -         422.552     422.552                  423.662    423.662         -          418.01   418.01
(b) CO$T                                 185.655                  185.655    169.589        -         169.589      170.634               1 t70.634            N)
(c) Development surcharge-IDA                          -            -          0.476                   0.476         4.76         -        4.76
3. Vehicles                                  23.80         -          23.80       29.30                   29.30         24.232        -       24.232
4. Technical Assistance
(a) Expert services and fellowships        -         90.308       90.308                   89.764      89.764                    83.645   83.645
(b) Staff salaries                        24.807      -           24.807      67.395                  67.395        45.558        -       45.558
5. Other Cost
(a) Books                                 3.798      15.144        18.942      8.305       14.856     23.161        10.171       10.419  .20.59
(b) Consumable training materials        103.656      -           103.656     107.832       4.845     112.677       102.768       4.845  107.613
(c) Industrial attachment                33.60        -           33.60        29.393       X         29.393        30.904        -       30.904
(d) Furniture                            35.346       -           35.346       35.346                 35.346        35.345                35.345
{e) Operation and maintenance             5.819       -            5.819       9.095                  -_ ,- 9 5298                 _       fM
Grand total                          785.238   528.004      1313.242    1044.387      533.127    1577.514      1035.429     516.919 1552.348



21
TableO:  Project Financing
(US$ milUion)
IDA                          36.0              33.1
UNDP                          6.2                5.9
ODA                           4.7                4.2
Government                   .1iS               t3.0
Total                        62.2               56.2
Table  : Attlcation of Credit-Proceeds
_ __ _ _ ~~(n Sf -) 
(1)   Civit works (including professionat                       13,itO OOO                      tt 306,184
fees
52)  lEquipment and vehicles                                    13,300,000                      10,824,530
(3)   Furniture                                     .              90 000           .583,191
*A}  80oks                                                        380,000                          2o00625
(5)   Salaries of Incremental Staff,                            3,620,000                        2,607,112
practical attachment allowances and,
consumable training materials
(6)   Unaltocated
2,600,000                           0.000
Total Amount Withdrawn
Undisbursed 8alance                                                                       26,079.448
Cancelled                                                                                      0.000
_________                7~~~.820fss2
TOTAL
33,900,000                      33,900,000



Table B: CMST ANALYSIS OF PROJECT INSTITUTION5: APPRAISAL ESTINATES AND CIUML CSTS fOR CIVIL VOAKS IN TAM (NILLIOS)
1.  DinaJpur                            9.265     16.589      9.363     9.1211   1.655         7.427     0.20          0.21      20.483    33.347
2.  Faridpur                           10.667     21.718      7.148     6.938    1.43         11.652     0.50         1.619      19.745    41.99
3.  Feni                               12.416     19.557      5.664     6.672    1.905        10.082     1.00          1.568     20.985    37.879
4.  Jessore                             7.879     18.121      8.831     8.105    1.33         10.47      0.10         0.65       18.14     37.316
S.  Kushtla                            13.05      22.935      5.303     8.375     1.33         7.618    0.081         0.40       19.764    39.328
6.  Rajshahi                           11.068     17.871      9.22      10.464    1.68        12.084     0.10         1.199      22.068    41.618
7.  Kaptai                              1.07       0.507     13.666    19.055    1.83          7.SS5     0.20         -          16.766    27.117
8.  Chittagorg                         11.47      13.258      7.242    12.364    0.26          7.82       ,           -          18.972    33.442
9.  Comi lt a                           5.722      9.048     4.64       7.739    0.13          4.332      *                      10.492    21.119
10. Ohaka                               4.758     18.304     13.46     20.915    0.39          7.722      .                      18.608    46.941
11. Khu(tn                             12.617     14.701     7.70       6.906    0.13          9.767      .           1.37       20.447    32.744
12. Nyiiingh                            4.905     6.831      5.36       6.039    0.13          9.385         .        1.424      10.395    23.679
13. Barisal                            2.965      6.764      2.368      7.698    0.13         4.257                   0.925       5.463    19.644
14. Bogra                              2.965      7.248      3.436      9.s44    0.13         3.608       .          0.065       6.531    20.465
1S. Pabna                              2.965      6.212      2.368      5.966    0.13          1.612      .                      5.463    13.79
16. Rangpur                            2.965      5.017      2.368      6.667    0.13          2.501      .           0.078       5.463    14.263
17. Sythet                             2.965      2.955      2.368      7.075    0.13         2.387               _      _       S.463    12.417
18. B.I.T. Chittagon                   6.504      8.763      4.66       4.4r4      *          3.688       .                      ¶1.164    16.905
19. B.I.T. Khutna                      8.413      10.23      4.95       7.73       .          0.861       .                      13.363    18.824
20. B.I.T. Raishahl                     2.394     8.416      4.815      5.719      .          .           .           .           7.209    14.135
21. B.I.T. Dhaka                        1.18      0.735      .                                                                    1.18      0.735
22. T.T.T.C. Cotlege                    7.821     11.894 -   5.221     22.912    1. 03      4.303 _                   0 648      14.08     39.757
Grand Total                      146.O24    247.737    130.151     13        129.111     10.156 1- '                        9        W..2  607.19



23
P. Proiect Results
lab-la 9: PROJECT OUTCOMES
Appraisal                Actual
Indicator                        estimate               achieved
Students admission increaseU                  80                       80
Students trained
in project
institution                              103,656                   107,613
Students
trained in industry                       19,680                    30,904
Teachers and
staff trained                                 874                      618
Institutions
served by the project                          22                       22
New hostel places
for female students                          476                       476
New hostel places for
male students                                 972                      972
Specialist Assistance rman-monthsl
Re-establishment of TTTC                      168                      142
BTE-B:  examination reforms                    12                       12
DTE:  establishment of PIU                     36                       36
polytechnics and ECs:
staff development                            234                      188
PIU: management and
coordination                                  54                       48
Fellowships-
Re-establishment of TTTc                      288                      254
BTEB:  examination reforms                     12                       12
DTE:  establishment of PIW                     27                       24
polytechnics and ECs:
Staff development                             582                      520
!The project was not designed to expand the system



24
Table 10: Student Enrollment During Project Period
Polytechnic Ingtitutes
Institute          Year      1984-8S   1985-86   1986-87   1987_88   1988.89   1989-90   1990-91   1991-92
Admission      600       600        600       600        600       600        600       600
1.Ohaka                         --- 
____I.Dh ____k   Enrollment    1650       1670      1656      1670       1680       1660      1666       1656
2.Cb±tna8ona    Admission       360       360       360       360        360        360       360        360
Enrollment     992       982       1008       996        986       988        998       986
3.Rhula         Admission      200       200        240       240        240       240        240       240
Enrollment     552       548       660        656       658        665        648       672
4.Rajahahi      Admission      200       240        240       240        240       240        240       240
Enrollment     550       658       654        664        6S6       653        660       648
5.Mymenahing    Admission      260       260        260       260        260       260        260       260
Enrollment     716       710        718       715        720       714        712       718
6.Comlla       Admission      220       220        220       220        220        220       220       220
Enrollment     606       604       610        603       608        S98        600       602
7.Barisal       Admission      220       220        220       220        220        220       220       220
Enrollment     610       603       608        602       598        600       603        604
8.Bogra         Admiesion      220       220        220       220        220        220       120       220
Enrollment     608       604       610        605       598        602       600        606
9.Ranapur       Admission      220       220        220       220        220        220       220       220
Enrollment     606       610       603        608       600        598        602       604
10.Pabna        Admission      220       220       220        220        220       220        220       220;
Enrollment     603       612       608        604       615        608        606       602
11.Sylhet       Admission      220       220       220        220        220       220        220       220
_ Enrollment   612       606       603        608        606       598        604       600
12.Feni         Admission      180       180        180       180        180       180        180       ISO
Enrollmet      496       498       498        502        495       504        500       494
13.Kaptai       Admission      120       120        120       120        120       120        120       120
Enrollment     335       330       332        325        340       345        330       325
14.Faridpur     Admission      180       180        180       180        180       180        180       180
Enrollment     498       502       496        494       492        498        504       494
1S.Jessore      Admission      180       180        180       180        180       180        180       180
Enrollment     496       494       501        495       494        498-      502        498
16JKushtia      Admission      180       180        180       180        180       180        180       180
Enrollment     502       498       496        494       504        501       496        494
17.Dinajpur     Admission      180       180        180       180        180       10         180    _  180
Enrollment     494       496       497        492        501       498        492       502



25
Institute           Year      1984-85   1985-86   1986-87   1987.88   1988-89   1989-90   1990-91   1991.92|
A&dssolado     180       IS0       18o       ISO        ISO        too       IS0       I80
l  8.CW.rttgonS                             -         -         -                    -          -         -
_____________   lurolliaeut     715       720       718       725        710        712       724       726
19.Khul"a        Adaission      180       180       180       180        180        180       180       180
.________ _   EnrollmDent   720       724        722       720       718        715       716        722
20.Rajahash      Admlseion      180      1to        180       180        t80        180       180       180
Enrollment     72S       720       722       718        716        710       720       724
21 .Dbaka        Admlealon      18        to1       Ig0       I80        1o0        180       180       180
Enrollment     720       726       730       725        710        715       720       730



26
0. Status of Credit Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Credit Covenants
-$EUQO   COVENANT                               STATUS OF COMPLIANCE
3.01 (b)  The Borrower shall employ or,        The Project Proforma approved by
cause to be employed staff in       GOB include staffing pattern and
the departments, agencies, and      schedule of staff appointments.
institutions of the technical       Recruitment is behind schedule
education system in accordance      but MOE is attempting to fill
*with Schedule 4 of Agreement.       vacancies.
3.07      The Borrower shall ensure that       There are still a number of
by July 31, 1988, all new teach-    teachers who do not have a
ers appointed by Polytechnics       diploma.  Upgrading these teach-
will have at least a Diploma         ers at the TTTC is ongoing.  The
from the Technical Teacher's        situation is steadily improving
Training College.                   as more teachers are being
trained
3.08      The Borrower shall-ensure that       Some difficulties envisaged
after January 1', 1986, all exis-    fully meeting this requirement.
ting teachers in Polytechnics       However, teacher education pro-
who do not hold a Diploma in        grams are modular and include
Technical Education will enroll     correspondence and non-residen-
for,said Diploma in the Teacher     tial courses to make it possible
Training College.                    to train teachers in-serve.
These programs are now ongoing.
3.09      The Borrower shall cause the         The Technical Education Board
Technical Education Board to        has prepared guidelines.  Prac-
make participation in the Prac-      tical attachment for Engineering
tical Attachment program a re-      College students started in
quirement for the Diploma in En-   'December 1985 and that of Poly-
gineering and Technical             technics in February 1986.  The
Education by July 31, 1987.         program has been implemented
every year since then.
3.10     -The Borrower shall cause each        The Government order establish-
Polytechnic and Engineering         'ing the program was issued in
College to establish by July 31,    October 1984.  Institutions have
1985 an advisory committee to       appointed a staff member to man-
organize and monitor the            .age the program, advisory
*practical attachment program at     committees have been formed.
the local level.



27
3.11 (a)  The Borrower shall ensure that        Materials are supplied at the
consumable materials will be         agreed level.
provided at levels agreed to and
as set forth in Annex to
Schedule 1 of DCA.
3.11 (b)  After project completion, to          To be reviewed.
continue to support the
provision of consumable
materials at the annual levels
of provision per student reached
during project implementation
3.12      The Borrower shall ensure that        Steps have been taken to have
the Financial Rules of 1978 be       the rules revised.  A proposal
revised not later that July 1,       from the MOE was prepared in
1985, so as to raise for the         1988 but there has been little
purposes of adequate                 progress in this area.  However,
maintenance, the limits for          maintenance has improved and
expenditures which principals of    maintenance staff have been
technical education institutions    appointed at each project
can authorize.                       institute.
3.13      The Borrower shall ensure that        The Project Implementation Unit
adequate annual budgetary            (PIU) will be a permanent
allocations will be made to the      integral part of the Directorate
MOE Facilities Department for        of Technical Education under
maintenance of Technical             MOE.  With a view to converting
Education Institutions.              the PIU into a permanent unit of
the Directorate of Technical
Education for maintenance of the
educational institutions (This
includes maintenance of
buildings, machinery and
equipments etc.) and for the
implementation of the future
Development projects of the
Directorate, the process of
transferring the posts of PIU
under normal Revenue Budget of
the Government is underway.



Table 12:  STAFF INPUTS BY STAGE OF PROJECT CYCLE IN STAFF WEEKS
.Project Cycle
Phase         FY  80   81   82   83   84   85    86   87   88    89    90    91    92   TOTAL
1) Preparation and   .7   .7  3.8 17.9  3.4   --    --   --   --    --    --                       26.5
Pre-Appraisal                                     .
2) Appraisal           .3   --   -- 1.0 40.5   --    --   --   --    --    --    --    --    41.8
3) Negotiations        --   --   -- 2.9  7.6   --    --   --   --    --    --    --    --    10.5
4) Supervision         --   --   --   .2  1.7  7.1   9.1  7.5   6.9   4.5  6.2   8.8  10.9   62.9



29
Table 13: MISSION DATA BY STAGES OF PROJECT
Project Cycle                  No. of    Days in                          Perf.
Stage                Date        Persons   Field         Specializations   Status
G2ene$ati.°
Identification 1 May 77        3          15          A, E, EP
Identification 2  Oct 80       2          10          A, TE
Preparation        Nov/Dec 80  2          18           E, GE
Appraisal          Oct 83      4          16           A, E, GE, TE
Suv2yisxion
Supervision 1      Oct 84      3          22          A, E, TE            1
Supervision 2      Jul 85      2          15          A, TE               1
Supervision 3     Jan 86       2          14          A, TE               1
Supervision 4     May 86       1          13          TE                  1
Supervision 5      Oct 86      1          11          TE                  2
Supervision 6     Mar 87       1          8           -TE                 2
Supervision 7      Mar 88      2          9           A, TE               2
Supervision 8     Jun 89       1          5           TE                  2
Supervision 9      Jun 90      1          11           TE                 2
Supervision 10    Jun 91       1         .7           TE                  1
St  -vision 11    Nov 91       1          11          A                   1
A - Architect                                            GE - General Educator
E - Economist                                            TE - Technical Educator
EP - Education Specialist



30
ANNEX 1
BANGLADESH TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
EXCHANGE RATE FLUCTUATIONS
1984       lUS$  -  25.2TK1SDR  -  1.12 US$
1985       1US$  -  28.OTK1SDR  -  1.10 US$
1986       1US$  -  30.3TK1SDR  -  1.23 US$
1987       1US$  -  31.0TK1SDR  -  1.42 US$
1988       lUS$  -  31.8TK1SDR  -  1.35 US$
1989       lUS$  -  32.3TK1SDR  -  1.26 US$
1990       1US$  -  34.9TK1SDR  -  1.34 US$
1991       1US$  -  36.3TK1SDR  -  1.32 US$
1992       lUS$  -  39.OTK1SDR  -  1.45 US$
Currency Unit of the Country:  Bangladesh Taka (TK)
Currency Unit of the Credit:   Special Drawing Rights (SDR)



IBRD 17776R
A,_4                89 <'>BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
AA. POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTES    *D 8. ENGINEERING COLLEGES
f   t(  ) \  < X E <    ,Al   S8fhr0 81  Dhaka(JoydebPr   I)
Oauhatt   A2 Banmw                       B~~~~~~~2 Khwlnta
A3 Bogm                 ~~~~~~83 Chittagong
2 6 . f       H n A u r a n  \ >       >C               \   .                 A 4  R aishah i                   8 4   R aishahi                   26  t
AS Kaptai
I N                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A7 Faridpur         Cl Technical Teacher Training College
Ajetwhoob  >  ,s  ABa  Dinelur   C2  Technical Education   Oad
AB   F1<JPUV                     C3 Directorate of Te|hnical Education
A12 Fonte                       PRIM'ARY ROADS
2   8   t \   i^  1 \   \ \   t $               ~~~~~~~~~~~At4 Kushtib           RIVERS
AIS iAhulna                     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
AlS Pabna          -*    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~  M    $~NGH    ~        SYLHET               5        eica
Ir \ur b
e                                   ,                                                               --  '- (/
T ide h'                               T    GAIL
Q~~~Th' ~~~~~~nq~~~~eaioo. md ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     iai
W~~~~~~~~~~~
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                                                            I't N¢ D   a<ut I A;w   1Ss  
. n    fA    bnnndon.n   d,,.                                  / 
aANGLADEs,)&i                                  ,2.,,       .-,                   ,                            f        >   
INDIAv                    w                                  
(    (  0{ etc"ffE   <    2r         0           25           50          7   IE                                 t       &     2
R        R              ..-     I MLA     S
\   _f f,,2'3. 0     Awzn ts *                            0               S0            100 KILOHEtERS
OCTOBER13



