Document of
The World Batik
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 485 2-BD
Sli'FF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADES H
TECHNTCAL EDUCA'i TON  PROJECT
April 25, 1984
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Human Resources Division
hins doeument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Taka           US$0.04
25.2 Taka        US$1.00
(As of March 31, 1983)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
Grades 1 - 10
January - December
Grades 11 and above
July   June
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BAU     -        Bangladesh Agriculture University
BMET    -        Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training
BUET    -        Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
DTE     -        Directorate of Technical Education
DG      -        Director General of Technical Education
GOB     -        Government of Bangladesh
MCOE    -        Ministry of Education
N(;SDT   -       National Council for Skill Development and Training
ODA     -        British Overseas Development Administration
PIU     -        Project Implementation Unit
Pp      -        Project Proforma
SIDA    -        Swedish International Development Authority
SFYP    -        Second Five-Year Plan (1980-85)
TTTC    -        Technical Teachers Training College
TTC     -        Technical Training Center
TEB     -        Technical Education Board
UNDP    -        United Nations Development Program
UGC     -        University Grants Commission
VTI     -        Vocational Training Institute
VTTI    -        Vocational Teacher Training Institute
(



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANLADZDSH
TECHNICAJ. EDUCATION PROJECT
Table of Contents                   Pate No.
BASIC DATA
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
I.  TECHNICAL EDUCATION IN BANGLADESH ...................,...       1
A. The System  .......................        1....             1
B. Problems and Issues  ..        .**,.,,,          .....     2
C.  Gowernment .olicies and Programs                            5
D.  External Financing of Technical Education                   6
E.  Bank Role and sector Lending Strategy .. a  . . . . .       7
I I.* THE PROJECT * *......................................           8
A. Goals and Objectives           ..........                    8
B. Teacher Training                    ............             9
C.  Curriculum Development ........e..................    10
D.  Equipment Modernization        ........................   12
E.  Physical Rehabilitation .... .........................   13
F.  Strengthening Directorate of Technical Education ....   14
G.  Restructuring/Reorganization of Engineering Colleges.   15
H.  Reform of the Examination System ...... ..............    15
I.  Technical Assistance Summary e.....................    16
III.  PROJECT COSTS. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND
DISBURSEMENTS .............             ..... .              18
A.  Project Costs ....         * ................    18
B.  Financial Plan                                             21****.******.*...  Z1
C*. Recurrent Expenditure .  .. ....................    22
D.  Implementation             ... .. ....................  23
E.  Disbursements   ..  *..........**..................    25
F.  Accounting and Auditing ..............................   26
IV.  BENEFITS AND RISKS       ..................     .......... .   26
A.  Benefits .......* ...................... .........   26
B.  Risks                         ............  26
V *   A REEi T  REACHE.. D ..   . . . .  . . .      . .0&*I..6. . .  . . * *  . . . .  . . . . . I. . . . 276
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED -o..  .....  .*....27
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Bangladesh in
October 1983.  Mission members were Messrs. R, CambTidge (Mission Leader),
A. Andonyadis (IDA), R. Ellis and G. Howell (Consultants) and K. Zaheer
and L. Sirawardene (UNESCO).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotrnance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ANNEXES
1 -  Education Indicators
2 - The rechnical Education System
3 - External Assistance to Technical Education
4 -  Manpover Demand and Supply for Engineers and Technicians '
5 -  Annual Requirements for Consumable Training Materials
6 - Technical Assistance and Fellowship Program
7 - Schedule of &ppointment of Additional Staff
8 - Project Costs:
Table 1: Sumnary Costs by Component and Categories of Expenditure
Table 2:  Summary Account by Time
Table 3: Summary Account by Project Institution
9 - Implemientation Schedule
10 - Forecast of Expenditures and Disbursements
11 - Selected Documents in Project File
CHART
Organization of Project Implementation System
MAP
Map of Bangladesh Showing Project Institutions



-iii-
BANGLADESH
TECHENICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
,Population (1983)                                 93.6 million
Rate of Growth                                    2.6%
GNP Per Capita (1981)                             US$120
Literacy Rate                                      26%
School Enrollments 1981/82 1/
Girls as x
Level and Age Group      Grade        > of Age Group 21       of Enrollment
Primary (6-10)                1-5                 66                     37
Junior Secondary (11-14)      6-9                  23                    20
Senior Secondary (15-17)    10-12                 23                     20
Higher (18+)                 13+                    4                    16
Fublic Expenditure on Education (1982)
1.  As a percentage of GDP                                         -    1.1%
2.  Recurrent education expenditure as a percentage
of total government recurrent expenditure                      -   14.5%
3.  Recurrent expenditures on technical education
as percentage of total recurrent education expenditures        -   27.0%
4.  Annual recurrent cost per Engineering College student           -   US$114.0
5.  Annual recurrent cost per Polytechnic student                  -   Us$70.0
6.  Development funds allocated to technical education
as % of total education development funds under SFYP           -   7.4%
7.  Education development funds as % of total
development funds under SFYP                                   -   5.4%
8.  Total public expenditures (recurrent and development)
on education as % of total public expenditures                 -   8.5%
11  See Annex 1 for Comparative Education Indicatcrs
2/  Gross enrollment ratios, including overage students.



- iv-
BANGIdJDESH
TCECNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summary
Borrover:            People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:              SDR 33.9 million (US$36.0 million equivalent)
Terms:               Standard
Proiect:;            The project would support the Government's policy of
developing an adequate supply of technical manpower to
meet the needs of the public and private sectors. Its
main objectives would be to: (a) improve the quality of
training at the Engineering Colleges and Polytechnics
through (i) teacher training, curriculum development,
and a Practical Attaclhnent Program, which emphasizes
practical skills training, for students and teacher
trainees, (ii) equipment modernization and improvements
in maintenance, and (iii) physical rehabilitation of
acedemic, hostel and workshop facilities; and (b)
improve the management of the technical education
program through 'i) establishment of a Program
Inspection Wing in the Directorate of Technical
Education to oversee curriculum development, monitor the
adequacy of facilities, equipment and training materials
and liaise with industry and other agencies to promote
the Practical Attachment Program, (ii) support of
procedural and institutional reform in the Polytechnics
and Engineering Colleges, and (iii) support of
examination refora.
Risks:               There is one significant risk associated with the
project. The introduction of Practical Attachment
Programs as an integral part of the new curriculum for
students of the Colleges and Polytechnics and teacher
trainees at the Technical Teacher Training College would
be difficult to organize, and its its success depends to
a large degree, on the attitudes of managers at the
enterprise and field level who would supervise the
students. A reluctance to include a training function as
part of their normal duties could endanger the program.
This risk should be minimized by the Government providing
additional funds to finance fellowships and honoraria for
the industrial/practical tutor in the corporations and
departments.



Estimated Cost: L/a                                  Lo! FIoreUR    otal-
----US$ million -------
Teacher Training                 1.6        3.1       4.7
Curriculum Development           2.8        2.1       4.9
Equipment Modernization          6.4.     13.1       19.5
Physical Rehabilitation         12.0        1.4      13,4
Strengthening DTE                0.9        1.4       2.3
Restructuring Colleges            -         0.1       0.1
Examination Reforn               0.1       0.2        0.3
Total Base Costs            23.8      21.4       45,2
Contingencies
Physical                     2.3       Z.0        4.3
Price                        7.9       4.8       12.7
Total Project Costs        34.0       28.2       62.0
,a  Includes taxes of Us$ 10.2 uilliot equivalent of which
83% is for impoTted equipment.
FinancinR Plan:                                      I.al    foreiga     Total
IDA                             18.2       17.8      36.0
tfl4DP                           0.3        5.9       6.2
ODA                              D.2       4.5        4.7
Government                      15.3         -       15.3
T:tal                      34.0        28.2      62.2
Estimated
Disbursement:        IDA FY          FY85  FY86  FY87  IF8   r1Y89  PY90  FY91
Annual           0.5   3.9   7.5  11.9   6.6   3.9   1.7
Cumulative       0.5   4.4  11.9  23.5  30.4  34.3  36.0
Economic
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Appraisal Report:   BANG1ADEHSI:  Technical Education Project,
Report No.4852-BD, dated April 25, 1984,



-1-
r. TECENICAX EDL1tATION IN BANGLADESH
A.  The System
1.01    Introduction.  There is an extensive irfrastructure of technical
education facilities and programs already established in Bangladesh. Like
most of the developing countries in South Asia, the technical education
system has been plagued with a myriad of problems which has greatly reduced
its effectiveness to meet its primary objective, i.e., providing skilled
manpOwer for the industrial and agricultural development of the country. The
system's deficiencies can be linked to a number of factors, the most
prominent of which is the human and physical destruction which resulted from
the War of Liberation in 1971. More recently, the general shortage of
resources to support the system, coupled with weak and ineffective teaching
has exacerbated the situation. With a concerted program of rehabilitation
and modernization, and the attendant policy changes, the technical education
system in Bangladesh can be made to fulfill its potential.
1.02    Administration.  Technical education is organized ia three tiers:
degree, diploma and certificate courses. The degree program is designed to
train engineers and is of four years duration.  Diploma courses are operated
for training technicians and usually last three years. Certificate courses
are offered for skilled workers and normally are of six months duration.
Responsibility for the adainistration of the system rests with three minis-
tries and the University Grants Covmission (1GC). The Bangladesh University
of Engineering and Technology (BUET) and the Bangladesh Agriculture Univer-
sity (BAU) are the apex institutions of the system. They are both
autonomous, but operate under the jurisdiction of the UGC.  The Ministry of
Education (HOE) through its Directorate of TechLical Education (TE) is
responsible for the administration of 4 Engin - - 'olleges (Rajshahi,
btulna, Chittagong and Dhaka), 2 specialized C c-_.a for Textile and Leather
technologies, 17 Polytechnics located at district headquarters, and 3
Monotechnics devoted to Glass and Ceramics, Survey, and Graphic Arts tech-
nologies. The Ministry of Manpower through its Bureau of Manpower Employment
and Training CBMET) manages 5 Technical Training Centers (TTCs), 35 Voca-
tional Training Institutes (VTIs) and the Vocational Teacher Training
Institute (VTTI). The Ministry of Agriculture operates the Bangladesh
Agriculture College at Dhaka, and 11 Agriculture Training Institutes (ATIs)
for the training of agriculture extension technicians. The Ministries work
closeLy with the Technical Education Board (TEB). The Board is autonomous
and has the power to grant or withhold recognition to any educational
institution offering courses in technical education. It awards Diplomas and
Certificates and also prescribes admission requirements and conducts examina-
tions.  Finally, it has the power to inspect any institution under its pur-
view, and all syllabi require its approval.  The institutions of the techni-
cal education system, including enrollments, output, and staffing are given
in Annex 2.



-2-
B. Problems and Issues
1.03    The problems and issues discussed refer only to the diploma and
degree programs in technical/engineering education because agriculture issues
are being addressed by IDA under Credit 1396-BD of June 1983. The problems
of certificate level vocational programs are being pursued by IDA under
Credit 912-BD (para 1.19) and other multilateral and bilateral donors (para
1.17). The major issues affecting the Engineering Colleges and Polytechnics
concern the management, quality of instruction, levels of expenditure on
training materials, curricula, physical infrastructure and student assessment
systems.
1.04    Organization. Management and Administration.  The management of the
technical education system by the DTE is weak. The Directorate is small and
operates in isolation from industry and the institutions it is supposed to
manage. There are no formal feedback/advisory committees with membership
from industry or teachers, at either the national or institutional level.
This further isolates the Directorate from its clientele. The operations of
the DTE are also hampered by the lack of management information. Statistics
are sparse and unreliable. An efficient system of data collection relevant
to student capacity, admissions, progress and examination is required if
management is to improve. Finally, the Directorate's management of the
maintenance and repair of both buildings and equipment is poor, largely
because of the inadequate allocation of resources to this activity, and the
cumbersome procedures which inhibit the ability of principals to undertake
repair and maintenance at the appropriate time.
1.05    The management of the Engineering Colleges is a special problem.  The
lack of autonomy in finance, administration and curriculum has been a severe
handicap to the development of these institutions, in particular their
ability to attract and retain qualified teachers. Principals of the Colleges
have little or no authority to manage because the organizational structure
which links them academically to the zonal universities and administratively
to the DTE, inhibits initiative and independent program development relevatn,.
to their cl4 ntele.  The success of BUET as an independent university has
served as a model of what an autonomous college could be, and this has led
over the years to suggestions that the Colleges become autonomous Institutes
of Technology. This has been a major source of concern to the Government.
1.06    Teacher Training.  The most important input to a systematic and
qualitative instructional program is the teacher. In Bangladesh, the techni-
cal teacher training program has been defunct since 1977. At the Colleges,
there is an acute shortage of teachers, with only about 66% of sanctioned
posts filled. Shortages are particularly acute at the Assistant Professor
level where only about 21% of the posts are occupied. In the Polytechnics,
the position is relatively better with about 82% of the sanctioned staff in
position. Here however, the shortages occur at the level of Chief Instructor
and Workshop Superintendant. The student/santioned staff ratio at the Col-
leges is about 12.5:1 which is within acceptable norms of 10:1 for this
level. The student/staff ratio at the Polytechnics is about 21:1 which is



-3-
high for technical subjects, as a norm of about 12:1 is more acceptable for
teaching at this level.
1.07    Staff at both the Engineering Colleges and Polytechnics lack
appropriate training and experience. Most of the staff at tl ' Colleges have
had no teacher training and industrial experience. They tend Lo be fresh
graduates from the University and view indust-ial experience t.8 basically in
conflict with their status as academicians. Of the polytechnLc teaching
staff only 11% have degrees, while most of the others have d;plomas. This is
serious, since they are at the same academic level as the third-year students
whom they teach, Most of them have also received little or no formal train-
ing in teaching methodology or pedagogy. Only 26.5% have had up to the three
months training in these areas. The exception is the Chief Instructors, of
whom 86% have received the Diploma in Technical Education and had some over-
seas training during the 1960s and early 1970s. Most of Lhese are now
approaching retirement age, and with their departure from the teaching force,
the situation would be even graver. Industrial experience is also very low.
Among Chief Instructors, 26% have had five years or more industrial
experience. Among Instructors, only 5% have had this exposure to industry,
and none of the Junior Instructors have bad any in-plant experience. There
is clearly a need for a systematic in-service training program to include
pedagogic training, subject matter upgrading and equipment maintenance and
repair. There is also a need for an organized system/program of training
teachers in industry. Some attempts to give this kind of training have been
made in the past, and attachments to industry of up to 4-6 weeks have been
organized. About 400 teachers benefited from this program during the 1976-79
period.
1.08    Curriculum.  While the written curricula are fairly comprehensive for
each technology, they tend to be overloaded for the time available to the
student, with little indication of the objectives of study for particular
topics.  In 1971, courses for the Polytechnics were revised, but closer
analysis showed that while an additional 30 'ours per week were added, there
was little likelihood that students would benefit. There is little or no
provision of time for private study. In order to reduce the student class
contact time, the content of the curriculum needs to be examined, and the
number of topics reduced with the opportunity for a greater degree of selec-
tivity. More emphasis should also be placed on the acquisition of trans-
ferable skills raither than an excess of factual knowledge. As with the
teachers, practical experience programs for students are essential to enrich-
ing their curricula, reducing class contact hours, and improving their per-
formance in the work place when graduated.
1.09    Curriculum requirements and the method of teaching depends on the
amount of instructional material available in the classroom/workshop. An
analysis of the 1982 recurrent budget shows that fully 60% is allocated to
staff renumeration, while only about 12% is allocated to materials. This
translates to between US$ 10.00 and US$ 20.00 (depending on the institution)
per student per year for consumable training material. International stand-
ards are about US$ 75.00 per student per year. It is not surprising that the



-4-
untrained teachers resort prinicipally/almost exclusively to chalk and talk
methods of instruction, given the extremely low provision of consumable
training materials.
1.10    The allocation for books is about US$ 980.0 per institution or about:
100 books per year. Comparable institutiorns in other developing countries
spend up to US$ 10,000 per year on books, and other reading materials.
Library support in the Polytechnics and Colleges is minimal.  Most text books
are out of date, seldom catalogued, and are mostly locked away from the
students because librarians are usually untrained. There is also a lack of
suitable texts in Bengali. Because of the lack of proper English teaching in
the high schools especially for technical subjects, the English texts avail-
able in the Polytechnics are largely unused.
1.11    Physical Infrastructure.  The Colleges and Polytechnics have adequate
provision of academic buildings and dormitories for the existing students.
The available space could be better utilized with higher room usage, but this
is aggravated by the tendency to hold theory classes early in the mornings
and workshop classes later. The accommodations need general renovation and a
higher standard of maintenance. This is important educationally as students
would only aspire to the standards set by their own institutions. Workshops
in particular need renovation because of the need to install new equipment.
The capacity utilization (total teaching space/enrollment) is about 77% for
the Polytechnics, and 67% for the Engineering Colleges. The Polytechnic
usage is acceptable by given international standards. The rate at the Col-
leges is low because the Dhaka Engineering College does not as yet have a
third year intake. The utilization rate will increase in 1984/85.
1.12    Most of the equipment in the Colleges and Polytechnics which was
purchased between 10 and 15 years ago, is now in need of replacement in
specific areas, and of repair and maintenance in general. An organized
routine of preventive maintenance is lacking, and this has resulted in the
breakdown of many machines which have been left idle rather than repaired.
Due to the age of this equipment, many of the spare parts are scarce or
unobtainable.   Many spares could be made in the Polytechnics, but little
attempt has been made to do so, which is a reflection on the competence and
attitudes of the workshop instructors and staff. Equipment inveatories are
theoretically available at each Polytechnic, but no central record is kept by
the DTE. A comprehensive inventory of all equipment, together with the state
of repair and replacement is a necessary management tool for the DTE.
1.13    Examinations.  An analysis of examination results in the Polytechnics
and Engineering Colleges shows that high internal inefficiency (repetition
and dropout) is directly linked to the method of student assessment
(Annex 2).  At the polytechnic level, the disadvantages of the present system.
are clear. There is a wide variation among Polytechnics in the interpreta-
tion and administration of examination regulations. This leads to variable
standards and uneven coverage of the curriculum by the teachers who are the
examiners for most of the course. Students in the first five semesters arj



-5-
only allowed to progress to next semester when all subjects are passed. The
system results in students who are already weak being subjected to lengthy
periods of waiting for the next semester to begin. There is no provision in
the system for slow learrers. At the Colleges, the major weakness of the
system is t' at the examinations are too long and course work has tended in
the past to be examination oriented. The zonal universities are also not in
a position to supervise the examinations and are dependent on information
received from the Colleges.
C. Government Policies and Programs
1.14    Under Bangladesh's two previous development plans  (First-year Plan
1973-1978 and the Two-year Plan 1978-1980), priority was given to voca-
tional/technical education with an emphasis on increasing capacity
(facilities) and programs for out-of-school youth and unemployed adults. A
review of the experience under both Plans showed substantial enrollment
increases in Engineering Colleges, Polytechnic' and Commercial and Vocational
training institutions. However, these gains were offset by: (a) a cor-
responding lack of relationship between the demand for labor with particular
skills and the supply of these skills from training institutions; (b) a
propensity of the system to develop negative attitudes on the part of stu-
dents to manual work; and (c) a moribund system of teacher training. The
Technical Teachers Training College located at Tejgaon was converted into the
Dhaka Engineering College largely in response to agitation from Diploma
holders (polytechnic graduates) for access to degree programs. Because of
admissions requirements, the organization of the academic year, and general
resistance from the four other degree awarding institutions (three colleges
and BUET) in admitting diploma students, the new college was created. This
policy decision justified in terms of manpower requirements and political
necessity, nonetheless Reriously affected technical teacher training.  Under
the Second Five-Year Plan 1980-1985, an overhaul of the technical education
subsector is one of the four major priorities in the education sector. The
emphasis is on consolidation rather than expansion of the system, th' upgrad-
ing of teachers, re-orienting curricula to be more in line with the needs of
the country, the introduction of second shifts to overcome the under utiliza-
tion of facilities, and to respond t.. increased manpower requirements when
clearly identified. Only 7.4Z of the education allocati.on is devoted to
technical education, but fully 60% of this supports the consolidation effort.
..15    In the three-years since the SFYP was launched, the Government has
taken a number of steps to reinforce the priority on consolidation. IDA
assisted the Government in preparing a Medium-Term Education Plan (MTEP).  It
culminated in a portfolio of priority projects for external financing. In
the technical education subsector, the Government was particularly aware that
in the post-independence period, lending by donors, and GOB's own investment
priorities were targeted on reconstruction and expansion of physical
facilities to accommodate increasing enrollments. These prior investments
have now placed an inordinate burden on recurrent budgets, and the only
strategy open to the Government given the sunk Costs in the system, is to
improve management, quality, and utilization of existing facilities. In



-6-
June 1981, the Government prepared a project and sought IDA assistance.  1
The project sought through its consolidation objective, to remove some of
the anomalies apparent in the system which resulted from the intervention of
a large number of donors in earlier periods (para 2.14). A second activity
undertaken by GOB was an internal review of thw system.  In May 1983, the
DTE issued its report which noted that improvements in the sesteux depended on
investments in teacher training and curriculum improvement, particularly the
introduction of practical content in the training of both teachers and stu-
dents. The upgrading of equipment and workshops was also viewed as essential
to this process. 2/ Lastly, as a result of extensive discussions with IDA
during project preparation, the TEB undertook a review of the examination
system.   In August 1983, a new system was instituted by the Government
(Annex 2).
D. External Financinx of Technical Education
1.16    Technical education has been a major and favored object of external
assistance (Annex 3). At the degree level, USAID was instrumental in the
establishment of BUET. Assistance was provided in the form of equipment,
expert services and a staff training program at Texas A&M University. A
similar program was also undertaken for BAU. The Engineering Colleges at
Khulna and Chittagong have received assistance (equipment and technical
assistance) from NORAD. Dhaka Engineering College has been provided equip-
ment and expert services from the USSR. The Technical Teacher Training
College, established in 1964, has over its period of existence, received
assistance for exDansion, and staff training from the Ford Foundation, USAID,
UNESCO, and the Colombo Plan.
1.17    At the diploma level, various polytechnics and monotechnics have been
the focus of bilateral and multilateral assistance in addition to IDA (para
1.18). The Dhaka Polytechnic was established by assistance from the Ford
Foundation, while the Chittagong Polytechnic was largely assisted with
resources from the UN Special Fund. The Australian Government, under the
Colombo Plan, provided substantial help in establishing the Khulna Polytech-
nic Institute. DANTIDA has provided equipment, books and technical assistance
for the introduction of a food technology program at the Dhaka Polytechnic.
UNDP has provided financial assistance to the Glass and Ceramics Institute.
SIDA has concentrated its efforts at the vocational (certificate) level and
has contributed to the development of 35 VTIs, and the VTTI at Bogra (para
1.02). UNDP has also assisted at this level and has with ILO as executing
agent, developed two new TTCs at Chittagong H411 Tracts, and Faridpur.
Equipment was also provided to the Chittagong, Rajshahi and Dhaka TTCs.
1/ UNDP has provided assistance (US$ 371,200) through UNESCO to further
prepare the project.
2/  Evaluataion Report on Polytechnic Institutions: Committee ronstituted by
the Directorate of Technical Education, Dhaka, May 1983.



-7-
E. Bank Role and Lending Strateev
1.18    IDA has approved seven Credits totaling US$ 126.4 million to the
education sector in Bangladesh. Four of these have been to se techni-
cal/vocational subsector and clearly reflect IDA's strategy of supporting
technical manpower development to meet manpower requirements snd consolidat-
ing investments in quality and institutional development started under pre-
vious projects. 1/  The first of the four Credits (Credit 407-BD, US$ 21.0
million) of 1973 was closed in 1980. The project was the result of a con-
solidation of two previous credits to East Pakistan. The project assisted
in: (a) completing the development of BAU; (b) construction of five new
Polytechnics; and (c) equipping eight other Polytechnics. The draft project
completion report (PCR) pointed out that the reasons for delays in implemen-
tation were due to post-war conditions, and shortages of materials, local
funds and management capacity. A number of recommendations were also made,
the major ones being to: (a) concentrate future assistance on improving the
quality of technician education; (b) strengthen the DTE and establish
improved management and inspection arrangements; (c) establish a separate
technical teachers training program; (d) establish on-going procedures for
the conduct of regular maintenance work on both buildings and equipment; and
(e) organize courses of training for laboratory and workshop technicians. /
1.19    The second and seventh credits (Credit 621-BD of 1976, Us$ 12.0
million and Credit 1396-BD of 1983, US$ 8.1 million) are aijed at supporting
the development of technical agricultural manpower. Credit 621-BD provided
assistance to: (a) the Graduate Training Institute (GTI) at BAU; (b) estab-
lish three new Agriculture Training Institutes (ATIs); (c) the Bogra Academy
for Rural Development; and (d) 15 Thana Training Units (TTUs) for training
model farmers. The Credit was closed in 1983 and a completion mission is
scheduled for January 1984. Credit 1396-BD is designed to assist in further
upgrading the quality of extension and research by: (a) improving the quality
of agriculture technician training and higher level in-service training;
(b) developing a career development strategy for extension agents; and
(c) extending an on-going Agriculture Management Development Program. The
fourth credit (Credit 912-BD of 1979, US$ 25.0 million) is focussed at the
vocational training level, and supports the construction of five nev rTCs, in
addition to the establishment of the National Council for Skill Development
and Training (NCSDT). Project implementation has been uneven with delays
occurring both in the construction and institutional development aspects of
the project, but implementation is now proceeding satisfactorily. Major
1/ Bangladesh Education Sector Memorandum (Report No. 3548.*BD), para 5.09,
IDA, June 1981.
/  Bangladesh First Education Project.  Credit 407-ED (parts B and C)
Project Completion Report, December 1981.



-8-
reforms in the certificate level vocational training system have been
achieved, mainly through the cooperation of IDA and SIDA through tha reBpe^-
tive projects they support. The proposed project is a continuation of thib.
overall strategy. It is responsive to the need to consolidate and bring
order to a subsector in which many donors have been active (paras 1.16 and
1.17).  It adequately reflects the priorities for further investments as
outlined by the Government (para 1.14' and is relevant to the conclusions of
the PCR (para 1.18). Lastly, it is in line with the World Bank Special
Assistance Program to member countries 1983-1984 where lending for
rehabilitation and modernization is emphasized.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Goals and Objectives
2.01    The principal goal of the proposed project is to support the strategy
outlined in the Second Five-Year Plan to develop technical manpower
(engineers and techaicians) needed for public and private sector industrial
development, and the Power, Water, Construction, Transport and Communication
sectors. Because present student intake capacity at the Engineering Colleges
and Polytechnics is sufficient to meet present and projected manpower
requirements (Annex 4) physical expansion is not required. It is necessary,
however, to improve the quality of the output from these institutions so that
it is responsive to the specific needs of Bangladesh.  Within this context,
the project would pursue two major objectives, specifically:
(a) to improve the quality of training imparted at the Engineering
Colleges and Polytechnics; and
(b) to improve the management and administration of the technical
education system.
2.02    The quality improvement obiective would be achievud by four interven-
tions.  These are:
(a) teacher training/staff development;
(b) curriculum development (including practical attachment
programs, books, and training materials);
(c) equipment modernization; and
(d) physical rehabilitation.
Investments in quality improvement would inevitably lead to higher utiliza-
tion of existing training capacity.



- 9-
The management improvement obiective would be achieved by:
(a) strengthening the Directorate of Technical Education through the
creation of a Program Inspection Wing and strengthening the Project
Impl .entation Unit;
(b) supporting procedural, organizational and institutional
reform in the Engineering Colleges; and
(c) supporting examination system reform in the Polytechnics through
the Technical Education Board, and at the Engineering Colleges.
B. Teacher Training (Proposed Outlay US$ 4.68 million) 1I
2.03    The major emphasis cf the technical teacher training program would be
to upgrade the subject matter capabilities of technical teachers, to provide
practical experience, and to give pedagogic training. The objective would be
to improve teaching methods, and to raise the quality of output from the
technical education system. For Polytechnic teachers, the thrust of the
program would be on enhanicing methods for practical subject teaching, lesson
planning, management of teaching resources, general teaching methods aad
specialist subject teaching methods (para 1.07). The use of teaching aids
and audio visual techniques would also be an important element in the train-
ing program. Each teacher would also be placed on practical experience
attachment in industry. The Polytechnic teacher training program would be
carried out at the re-organized and revitalized Technical Teachers Traininzg
College (TTTC) located at Tejgaon. Courses offered would be: (a) In-Service
courses for new and existing teaching staff of Polytechnic Institutes; (1l)
Short Courses on special teaching method topics; and (c) Resource Manamement
and organization courses. In its initial years of operation, the TTTC would
concentrate on offering teacher training to the Diploma of Technical Educa-
tion level (one year duration). Later, it would offer a limited intake to a
degree program (two years). The TTTC would have a teaching staff of 16 in
relevant subject areas. They would be trained in two ways: (a) an
in-country program assisted by expatriate experts; and (h) international
fellowships. The student capacity of the college would be 235, of which, 170
would be for in-service, 25 for short-course requirements and 40 for inten-
sive pedagogic courses for Engineering College staff. Because of the neces-
sity to get trained teachers into the Polytechnics, a staffing program
including a schedule of appointments has been included in the project
profornma prepared by the Government (para 2.21). During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that: (a) all newly appointed staff after
July 31, 1988, would be required to have at least a Diploma of Technical
Education; and (b) by January 1, 1986, all existing underqualified teachers
would be required to enroll in the in-service training program at the TTTC.
1/ This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays are baseline costs
including taxes.



-10-
2.04    Entineering College teacher training would consist of three elements:
(a) subject knowledge acquisition, (b) teaching methods, and (c) enhancement
of practical techniques. The teachers would undergo staff development in
subject upgrading at the BUET on local fellowships. Some teachers would be
selected for overseas training to obtain Masters degrees and post graduate
training in specific areas. Pedagogic training would be carried out at the
TTTC, while practical competence would be enhanced by attachments in
industry.
2.05    The expert services for all teacher training would be concentrated at
the TTTC. Their role would be to provide a service to teacher trainees,
train counterpart technical teacher trainers, assist in the planning,
organization and management of the TTTC as it is re-established, and develop
the system for teacher training.  In addition, they would be available to
provide expertise to the Colleges and Polytechnics in curriculum reform, in
improving the practical teaching programs, and developing short course
programs for in-service teachers. The proposed project would support techni-
cal teacher training by financing books, vehicles, expert services, fellow-
ships, and on a declining basis, salaries of additional staff, consumable
training materials and practical attachment allowances.
C.  Curriculum Development (Proposed Outlay US$ 4.93 million)
2.06    The objective of curriculum development activities would be to
improve the practical aspects of courses, and develop a curriculum more
related to advances in technology and the future needs of industry, commerce
and Government. This would be achieved by review and revision of existing
curricula, practical attachment programs, and an increased supply of books,
and training materials. Review and Revision: The TEB would develop new
curricula for all DiDloma courses at the Polytechnics. These curricula would
be established after surveys, consultation and collaboration with agencies,
including industry, and would be expressed in an objective format. The TEB,
in collaboration with teachers and other experts, would also develop a new
curricula for the Diploma in Technical Education (para 2.03). The course for
technical teacher trainees would be completely revised to include a greater
practical orientation and would include subject upgrading, industrial attach-
ments, repair and maintenance activities, pedagogy and supervised teaching
experience. In support of this activity, the TTTC would also offer courses
in curriculum development, implementation and design. The College would also
produce teacher guides and learning packages for curriculum implementation.
At the, Engineering Colleges, curricula would be reviewed and revised in
collaboration with BUET and the zonal universities. Each College curriculum
would be made to relate in some areas, to local and regional employment
opportunities. The review and revision process would be assisted by the
provision of expert services.
2.07    Practical Experience Attaclhments:  As an obligatory and integral part
of improved curricula, a program of practical experience attachments would be
organized for Bngineering College and Polytechnic students, and Polytechnic



-11-
teacher trainees.  These attachments would be of a two-month duration and
would be organized twice each year. Chittagong, Khulaa and Rajshahi
EnmiteerinR ColleRe  students vould undertake their attachments at the end of
their third year, whiLe Dbaka Engineering College students would have theirs
at the end of the second year of study. The annual number of engineering
college student attachments is expected to rise from about 730 -, 1986 to
about 870 from 1988 onward. Polytechnic students would undertake their
attachmeats at the end of their three year course. Attachments for about
3,700 students would be needted in 1986, and this would rise to about 4,300 by
1988. An additional 1,500 Commerce Diplnma students would also be placed on
attachments during this period.  Polvtec aic Teacher trainees, following a
one-year in-service course, would underta ,e attachments at the conclusion of
their theoreticaL training. From 1986 about 170 teacher trainees annually
would require attacbnents.  During negotiations, the GoveTnMent provided an
assurance that the TEB would, by July 31, 1987, make practical attschmients a
requirenent for the award of the Diploma in Engineering and the Diploma in
Technical Education.
2.08    The total annual demand for training attachments would be about
6,840. As a result of a study conducted by GOB during project preparation,
about 4,500 places have been identified in public sector corporations,
goverament departments, boards, autonomous agencies aad the private sector.
Since the places would be utilized twice each year, no problems of placement
are envisaged.  The Government bas issued an order establishing the practical
attachment pTogram. The order specifies the roles of public sector corpora-
tions, government departments and the private sector in supporting the
program. The progran is expected to be fully operational in 1986.
2.09    The program would be managed for the most part by the training
institutions (TTTC, Engineering Colleges, Polytechnics). Committees of
public and private sector managers would be constituted locally under the
chairmanship of the Principal, aad a full-time staff member would be assigned
in each institution to monitor the program as well as counsel students in
academic matters.  During negotiations the Government provided an assurance
that by July 31, 1985 each Polytechnic and College would establish such a
Coimmittee to assist ia organizing the Program. At the national level, the
Frogram Inspection Wing (Inspectorate) of the DTE would develop and monitor
the progrsm to ensure adequate access for each institution, to practical
experience facilities, and to undertake liason with the headquarters of
Corporations and Departments located in Dhaka. The project would support the
establishment and operation of the program by financing expert seivices,
fellowships, and on a declining basis practical experience allowances,
2.10    Books:  An increase in the provision of books and other reading
materials is essential to upgrading curricular standards. Books would be
supplied to the TEE, Colleges and Polytechnics. Multicopies of books for
student use in the Polytechnics would be in Bengali while reference books and
selected volumes for teacher use would be in English. At the Engineering and
Teacher Training colleges all books would be provided in English. Detailed
book lists for the TEB, TTTC, Colleges and Polytechnics have been prepared.



-12-
2.11    Consumable Training Materials.: Adequate supplies of consumable
training materials are integral to curricular improvement (para 1.09).  The
level of provision would vary according to institution. lWhile international
norms average about US$ 75 per student, in Bangladesh US$ 60 per year per
student for Colleges and US$ 50 per student per year for Polytechnics would
be a more appropriate target. Increases to these levels from present alloca-
tions is a necessary input to enable greater utilization of equipment,
increased practical orientation of the courses, and more effective teaubing
of students. However, a sudden jump from the current level of approximately
US$20 to the recommended levels would create a significant strain on the
recurrent budget. It is therefore proposed that the movement of the provi-
sion to the proscribed levels, be phased over the project period. During
negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that adequate annual budgetary
allocations for consumable materialS would be made at the levels outlined in
Annex 5. The project would support curriculum development by financing
books, expert services, fellowships, and on a declining basis consumable
training materials.
D.  Equipment Modernization (Proposed Outlay (US$ 19.53 million)
2.12    With an increase in the practical content of the curricula, modern
equipment, including tools and instruments, would be required. Some of the
existing equipment would have to be replaced; in other cases, repairs would
be undertaken, and in some institutions complete workshops would have to be
equipped (para 1.11). The major areas of modernization would be in the
civil, mechanical, electrical and power engineering fields. Electronics
would be introduced at two Polytechnics (T.ajshahi and Khulna) so that all
four regional Polytechnics (Dhaka, Chittagong, Rajshahi and Rhulna) would
offer courses in this area. Detailed equipment lists including specifica-
tions and workshop layout plans for each institution, have already been
prepared. In order to avoid past problems of equipment maintenance, the
installation and maintenance of the workshop equipment would receive special
attention under the proposed project. Most of the equipment would be
financed by IDA and procured by IL/EQUIPR0. As a part of their contract
with the Government, they would be required to provide training to staff of
the DTE/Proiect Implementation Unit (PIU) in equipment procurement, inventoTy
control, and equipment installation. Workshop staff of the Colleges and
Polytechnics would also be trained locally at the VTTI in equipment installa-
tion and maintenance.  Senior instructors, instructors and demonstrators
would be trained at the TTTC in equipment maintenance. Finally, with a revi-
sion of existing rules, the Principals of Colleges and Polytechnics wouLd be
delegated more financial powers to enable them to purchase spares and
replacements locEiLly.  During negotiations, the Covernment provided an
assurance that the 1978 financial rules 1/ which limit the spending authority
1/ Delegation of Financial Powers to the Subordinate Officers of the Direc-
torate of Technical Education: Ministry of Education (Education Division,
June 27, 1978.



-13-
of Principals would be revised upwards to limits mutually agreeable fo GOB
and tne Association, and which would facilitate maintenance and repair of
equipment at the institutional level. The signing of a contract with
ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement of equipment to be financed by IDA, would be
a condition of credit effectiveness. The project would support equipment
modernizat..n by financing the purchase of new equipment for all institu-
tions, spares and replacements, expert services for equipment procurement and
installation, fellowships and training of staff in maintenance and repair.
E.  Physical Rehabilitation (Proposed Outlay (U]S$ 13.43 million)
2.13    The inputs of better trained teachers, more practical curricula,
modern equipment, books and materials would have to be accommodated in a
physical environment in which they can be fully utilized in order to improve
the quality of instruction. Physical rehabilitation of academic and workshop
facilities is therefore an indispensable factor in any effort at quality
improvement (para 1.11). At the TTTC, Colleges and Polytechnics, workshops,
academic facilities and student hostels would be rehabilitated. Over 8O0 of
the investment would be for renovation/rehabilitation of existing facilities.
Some extensions/additional construction would be undertaken particularly at
the TTrC and the Polytechnics. For the TTTC, an existing facility would be
renovated and some extensions incorporated to meet the functional require-
ments of a teacher training institution. The introduction of electronics at
twa Polytechnics (para 2.12) and bringing others up to their full capacity
would require some extensions at several of the Polytechnics. Detailed
construction/renovation plans for each institution have been prepared and are
acceptable to the Association. Because the organization/ management of multi-
ple Tehabilitation contracts (as opposed to new construction) is difficult,
the project would support the strengthening of the PTU (para 2.16).
2.14    The Government and IDA have been concerned about the maintenance of
physical facilities. A Facilities Department has been created in the MOB to
manage the maintenance, repair and new construction programs for all educa-
zionaL institutions.  This is expected to be an improvement from normal
practice under which repair and maintenance of all government buildings is
under the purview of the Public Works Department (PWD). The Facilities
Department would be staffed with over 300 engineers and architects, and would
be organized at national, regional and district levels. To ensure that the
TTTC, Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges are properly maintained after the
rehabilitation program, the Government provided an assurance during nego-
tiations that adequate annual provision would be made to the Facilities
Department to cover maintenance costs. It is expected that the size of these
allocations would not be unduly large during project implementation, because
of the rehabilitation program, and because Principals would be able to under-
take preventive maintenance programs with their increased financial authority
(para 2.12). The project would support the physical rehabilitation program
by financing construction and furniture at the TTTC, Colleges and Polytech-
nics.



-14-
F.  Strengthening the Directorate of Technical Education (ProMosed Outlay
US$ 2.26 million)
2.15    In light of the proposed curricular changes and major investment in
the sector, the DTE would have to be strengthened in order to perform its
role more effectively. This would be supported under the project thsough the
establishment of a Program InsVection Wing (Inspectorate) and strengthening
the existing Proiect IrmJleentation Unit (PIU).  The Inspectorate would have
four major functions. First, it would ensure that courses are conducted in
accordance with curricular requirements as laid down by the TEE, the UGC,
zonal Universities and the Executive Board (para 2.17) established to oversee
restructuring of the Colleges. To this end, the quality of iaputs to cur-
ricular implementation, including teacher performance, adequacy and main-
tenance of teaching facilities and equipment, availability of books and
consumable training materials would be monitored at each institution. In
this function, the Inspectorate would produce all statistical information
with regard to student enrollment, staff levels, space utilization, wastage
rates and other matters of accountability. Second, the Inspectorate would
act as an Advisory Service to the Principals and staff of the institutions
with regard to proposals initiated from the DTE, and the dissemination of
good teaching methods and good practices observed in other institutions.
Third, it would serve to inform the DTE of any difficulties being experienced
locally by institutions with regard to e_ui_Met revair and maintenance.
Where necessary, it would initiate action for the procurement of spare parts
not locally available.  Fourth, liaison with industry, commercial and govern-
ment departments in order to promote the practical excnerience attachment
program would be a central function of the Inspectorate. It would advise and
assist local institutions, where necessary, to obtain sufficient student
attachment places in order to carry out these functions. The Inspectorate
would be organized in a matrix structure, with individual inspectors taking
responsibility for their own subject matter and on a regional basis for
general institutional duties.  The Government has issued an administrative
order creating the Inspectorate. The project would support the Inspectorate
by financing equipment, vehicles, expert services and fellowships.
2.16    The PIU established under Credit 407-BD would also be strengthened,
and would be responsible for the implementation of the physical aspects of
the project: (a) rehabilitation of existing workshops, academic facilities,
student hostels; (b) coordination with ILO/EQUIPRO, DDA (Crown Agents) and
!JNDP (UNESCO) for the procurement and installation of equipment. On-site
supervision of the civil works would be carried out with the assistance of
technical personnel of the Facilities Department. Local consultants would
assist the PIP in the tendering and supervision of the technical aspects of
the rehabilitation program. The project would finance on a declining basis,
the cost of salaries of additional staff and the rent of an office for the
PIU, and the costs of vehicles and office equipment.



-15-
G.  RestrLscturirlR/Reorganization of Engineerinz Colleges (ProDosed Outlal
US$ 0.12 million)
2.17    The management and administration of the Engineering Colleges is a
special problem (para 1,05).  To overcome this, the GovernmeD* has issued
an order establishing an Executive Board. The project would support the
Executive Board to manage the four Engineering Colleges. The Board would be
chaired by the Minister of Education; the Secretary of the MOE would act as
the Vice Chairman. Membership would include the Vice Chancellors of BURET,
Dhaka, Chittagong, and Rajahahi Universities, the Director General of Techni-
cal Education (DG), the Principals of the Colleges and the Deans of the
Faculties of Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering of BUET,  The
immediate functions of the Board would be to identify the problems facing the
Colleges and take remedial measures to remove them.  Since the staffing
situation at the Colleges is critical, the Board would in the first instance,
remove all procedural and bureaucratic barriers which delay the appointment
of teaching and technical staff.  The Board would also arrange with BUET for
the release of some of its teaching and technical staff to work at the Col-
leges for specified periods. Finally, the Board would be responsible for
regularizing ad-hoc appointments of staff made by the DG and the Principals
of Colleges. Within each college, the project would support the estab-
lishment of Finance, and P1 nning and Development Committees.  The Finance
Committee would be responsib;' for preparing the annual budget of the Col-
lege, and for all annual expendituTes to be undertaken by the College.  The
PlanninR and Development Committee would be responsible for all development
schemes and projects at the College. It would supervise activities in con-
nection with construction, development and maintenance work.  These two
committees would only be first steps in the long process toward developing
the Colleges' capability to manage their ovn affairs. Academic affairs would
continue to be managed by the Zonal Universities. The project would finance
expert services to assist in the restructuxingtre-organization process.
H.  Reform of the Examinations System (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.29 million)
2.18    To overcome the problems in the examinations' system of Polytechnics
and Colleges (para 1.13), a number of changes would be undertaken. At the
Polytechaics, the TEB would have direct involvement in conducting examina-
tions in alL semesters. The examination schedule would be the same for all
institutions, and the Board would assess marking schemes, standards of
examinations, and any inter-institute differences would be remedied. The
major benefit of the reformed system would be the automatic/continuous promo-
tion of all students. The system would provide for students to retake sub-
jects which they failed. This is likely to reduce the dropout rate, increase
the throughput rate, and spare students the necessity to wait one year to
attend classes if they failed a subject. Finally, as the TEB would use
external examiners, it is expected that the supervision and inspection of
teaching programs and facilities of the institutes could be monitored by the
TEB as well as the DTE. The project would support the reform of the examina-
tion system for the Polytechnics by financing equipment, expert services,
fellowships, vehicles and on a declining basis, consumiable materials. At the



-16-
Engineering College level, several measures for the reform of the student
assessment process would be instituted. These include changes in the weight-
ing of marks between college conducted examinations and those of the Univer-
sity, avoidance of repetition, preparation of detailed marking schemes,
external checks of practical work, better design of question papers, and
inclusion of project work in the assessment of the student and averd of the
degree. The Project would support examination reform at the Colleges by
financing expert services.
J.  Technical Assistance Summary (Proposed Outlay US$ 4.87 million)
2.19    The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 22.5 staff-years of expatriate expert services and 98.75
staff-years (46.25 international; 4.0 regional; 48.5 local) of fellowship
training (Annex 6). The assistance would be allocated as follows:
(a) 14 staff-years of expatriate expert services and 24 staff-years
of international fellowships to assist in the re-establishment
of the Technical Teacher Training College;
(b) 1 staff-year of expatriate expert services and 1 staff-year
of fellowships (6 months international; 6 months regional)
to assist the Technical Education Board in implementing
examination reforms;
(c) 4.5 staff-years of expatriate expert services to the Ministry of
Education to assist (i) the Project Coordinator and the Project
Director in overall project management/coordination; and (ii) the
restructuring of the Engineering Colleges;
(d) 3 staff-years of expatriate expert services, and 2.25
staff-years of international fellowships to assist the
Directorate of Technical Education to (i) establish the Program
Inspection Wing (Inspectorate); and (ii) assist in the development
of the Practical Attachment program; and
(e) 19.5 staff-years of international, 3.5 staff-years of regional,
and 48.5 staff-years of local fellowships to support the staff
development programs for Engineering College and Polytechnic
teachers.
2.20    The UNDP and ODA have agreed to finance the technical assistance
component of the project. ODA has earmarked all of the assistance required
for the TTTC, wh..le tJNDP would finance all other requirements. The signing
of technical assistance agreements between GOB, and UNDP and ODA would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. UNDP has agreed that UNESCO would procure
the equipment as well as implement the technical assistance component it
finances. ODA has agreed that the Crown Agents would procure the equipment
it finances and the British Council would implement the technical assistance
it finances. Terms of Reference for all expert services have been prepared.



-17-
During negotiations the Government provided assurances that: (a) the
qualifications and terms and conditions of employment of all consultants
would be acceptable to the Association; and (b) that counterpart staff would
be appointed prior to the arrival of technical assistance experts.
Proiect Proforma (PP)
2.21    To ensure that sufficient funds are allocated for all project com-
ponents, the Government has prepared two draft PPs, One PP prepared by the
DTE include all components except examination reform. The TEB prep.1red a
separate PP to cover this component.  The PPs include a detailed staffing
p:ogram for each institution, and a schedule of appointmezts for additional
staff. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that it
would maintain this schedule of additional staff appointments (Annex 7). The
approval of both PPs by the Government would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness.



-18-
1II. PROJECT COST. FINANCING. IMPLEMENTATION AND DISBURSEMENTS
A. Project Costs
3.01    Summaries of cost.  The total cost of the project including duties
and taxes on imported goods is estimated at about Tk 1,567.5 million or
US$ 62.2 million equivalent. Detailed project costs by component, institu-
tion and time are given in Annex 8.  Breakdown of local and foreign costs for
each component is summarized in Table 3.1.
Table 3.1:   PROJECT COSTS BY COMPOVENT I/
Taka (millions)           US$ (millions)           % of
Base
CoM2onent          Local   Foreign  Total   Loca    P"orei    Total    Costs
Teacher Training       39.9    78.1    118.0    1.58        3.10     4.68      10.3
Curriculum
Development          71.5    52.7    124.2    2.84        2.09     4.93      10.9
Equipment
Modernization       162.4   329.9    492.3    6.44    13.09    19.53         43.2
Physical
Rehabilitation      302.4    36.6    339.0   11.98        1.45    13.43      29.7
Strengthening
DTE and PIU          21.1    35.1      56.2    0,87       1.39     2.26       5.0
Restructuring
Colleges              0.7      2.5      3.2    0.02      0.10      0.12       0.3
Examination
Reform                2.2      5.0      7.2    0.09       O.ZO     0.29       0.6
BASE COSTS           600.2   539.9  1,140.1   23.82    21.42    45,24          100
Contingencies:
Physical            57.0    49.9    106.9    2.26       1.98      4.24
Price              198.7   121.8    320.5    7.89       4.83    12.72
SUB-TOTAL            255.7   171.7    427.4   10.15       6.81    16.96
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS  855.9   711.6  1,567.5   33.97    28.23    62.20
Note:  Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
1/ Includes taxes and duties.



-19-
3.02    The estimated costs by categories of expenditure are summarized in
Table 3.2.
Table 3.2   Proiect Costs by Categorv of Expenditure j/
Take (millions)                 US$ (millions)
% of
Category of           i              Taxes &           V               Taxes &         Base
Expenditure         Local  Foreign  Duties  Total  Local  Foreign  Duties  Total  Cost
Civil Works         291.1    28,5    10.1   319.6  11.56    1.13    0.40   12.69  28.2
Profeosional fees    7.9        -        -      7.9   0.32      -        -       0.32   0.7
Furniture            12.8    10.3      4.6    23.1   0.50    0.41    0.18    0.91   2.0
Equipment           177.0   358.8   155.8   535.8   7.02   14.24    6.18   21.26  47.1
Books                  -      16.2       -     16.2    -       0.64      -       0.64   1.4
Vehicles              2.9      5.9      2.6     8.8   0.12    0.23    0.10    0.35   0.8
Expert Services:
. Foreign           10.7    60.0       -      70.7   0.43    2.38       -      2.81   6.2
Fellowships:
. Local              3.1       -       -       3.1   0.12      -        -      0.12   0.3
, Regional and
International      1.1    21.9       -      23.0   0.04    0.87       -      0.91   2.0
Salaries of Addi-
tional Staff      17.1       -       -      17.1   0.68      -        -      0.68   1.5
Consumable Training
Materials         46.0    37.2    13.9    83.2   1.82    1.48    0.55    3.30   7.3
Practical Attachment
Costs             27.2       -       -      27.2   1.08      -        -      1.08   2.4
Operation and
Maintenance        3.3      1.1     0.5      4.4   0.13    0.04    0.02    0.17   0.4
BASE COSTS          600.2   539.9   187.5 1,140.1  23.82   21.42    7.43   45.24   100
Contingeffcies
Physical            57.0    49.9    16.9   106.9   2.26    1.9P    0.69    4.24   9.3
Price              198.7   121.8    42.9   320.5   7.89    4.83    2.09   12.72  28.1
SUB TOTAL           255.7   171.7    69.8   427.4  10.15    6.81    2.78   16.96  37.5
TOTAL PROJECT
COSTS               855.9   711.6   257.3 1,567.5  33.97   28.23   10.21   62.20 137.5
Note:  Subtotals may not add to totals due to rounding.
.LJ Includes taxes and duties where applicable.



-20-
3.03    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Estimated cost for new construction and
rehabilitation of existing  ai2ldings are based respectively on (a)  current
unit building costs and (b) physical survey of the existing buildings. The
average cost per square ft for new construction/extension was estimated at
about US$ 14.0 (excluding site development and contingencies); and for
rehabilitation at between US$ 1.50 and US$ 4.0 per sq ft depending on condi-
tions. These costs are reasonable and below the median construction cost for
comparable Bank-assisted school construction in other countries of the
region. Costs for professional architectural services reflect the current
scale of fees established for services provided by local architectural firms.
3.04    Estimated equipment costs are products of (a) lists reviewed during
appraisal, and (b) current FOB unit prices adjusted to include fees for the
procurement agency, freight, insurance, local transportation costs and where
appropriate, installation costs. Furniture estimates reflect the results of
the surveys carried out during the physical survey of the buildings. Con-
sumable training materials costs were based on appropriate cost/trainee place
and by type of training and institution.
3.05    Customs Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to customs
duties and taxes. The cost of the project includes import duties and taxes
for equipment estimated at about US$ 8.49 million (50% of C.I.F.) and
US$ 1.72 million for civil works, furnitures, vehicles and consumable
materials. In preparing the draft PP, the Government was asked to provide
sufficient funds to cover customs duties and taxes.  During negotiations, the
Government provided an assurance that sufficient local funds would be
provided to cover import taxes and duties to ensure prompt customs clearance
of all goods, particularly workshop equipment.
3.06    Contingency Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies (US$ 4.24 million) estimated at 10% of base costs of physical
components, and 5% of salaries, technical assistance and practical attachment
components and price contingencies (US$ 12.72 million) to cover expected
price escalation at the following rates.
1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990
For Civil Works & Goods:
Foreign Costs            8.0     7.0      7.0     7.0      7.0      7.0     7.0
Local Costs            12.0    12.0    12.0    11.0    11.0    11.0    11.0
For Salaries & Services:
Foreign Costs           7.0      6.0      6.0     6.0      6.0      6.0     6.0
Local Costs             10.5    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0



-21-
3.07    Foreign Exchange Component.  The estimated foreign exchange component
of US$ 28.23 million representing 45% of estimated total project costs, has
been calculated on the basis of estimated foreign exchange proportions as
follows: (a) civil works (new construction and rehabilitation) 9%; (b)
furniture 4k%; (c) equipment 67%; (d) vehicles 67%; (e) books 100%;
(f) fellowships 95%; (g) foreign experts 85X; (h) consumable material 45%;
and (i) operation and maintenance 25%.
B. Financial Plan
3.08    The total project cost of US$ 62.2 million equivalent would be
financed as follows: (a) a proposed IDA credit of US$ 36.0 million equivalent
would cover 69% of total project cost net of taxes; (b) UNDP would finance
US$ 6.2 million equivalent for expert services, fellowships for all project
institutions except the TTTC, equipment for two Engineering Colleges, books,
printing materials and equipment for the TEB and selected consumable training
materials for all project institutions except the TTTC; (c) ODA would finance
US$ 4.7 million for expert services, fellowships, equipment, books, salaries
of additional staff and consumable training materials for the TTTC; and
(d) the Government would finance the remaining net costs of US$ 5.1 million
(10% of total net project costs) and all taxes. Total external financing
would cover 90% of total project costs net of taxes. The proposed financial
plan for the project is summarized below.



-22-
Table 3.3 Financial Plan
(US$ million equivalent)
GOB
Category                                 including
of Expenditure           Taxes   Total    Taxes       IDA     UN4DP    ODA
Civil works &
Professional Fees        0.56   18.74    3.59       15.15      -       -
Furniture                 0.25    1.27    0.25        1.02      -       -
Equipment                 8.49   28.32    8.49       14.94    3.39    1.50
Books                      -       0.84     -         0.43    0.20    0.21
Vehicles                  0.12    0.42    0.12        0.30      -       -
Expert Services            -       3.49     -          -      1.32    2.17
Fellowships                -       1.38     -          -      0.79    0.59
Additional Staff
Salaries                  -      0.92    0.37        0.36      -     0.19
Consumable Training
Material                 0.76    5.04    1.77        2.73    0.50    0.04
Practical Attachment
Costs                     -       1.50    0.60       0.90      -        -
Operation and
Maintenance              0.03    0.28    0.11        0.17      -        -
TOTAL BASE COST          10.21   62.20   15.30      36.00    6.20    4.70
C. Recurrent Expenditure
3.09    When fully operational in 1989, project institutions would generate
about Taka 32.0 milLion annually in incremental recurrent costs at 1983
prices, including the substantial costs for salaries of additional staff,
practical attachment allowances and consumable training materials for the
Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges. This amount is equivalent to less
than 1% of recurrent expenditures on education in 1983 and would therefore be
accommodated within the normal growth of education expenditures. However,
within the technical education sector, expenditures on these items (salaries,
allowances and materials) would take fully 84% of the recurrent budget as
opposed to the present allocation of around 72X. The largest percentage



-23-
increases would be for consumable materials which would increase from about
12% to over 20%, and salaries from about 60% to around 62%. This balance is
in keeping with acceptable norms and is expected to overcome some of the
problems which have affected the institutions (para 1.09-1.11). During
negotiations, the Government gave an assurance that funding at the level
supported during the project would be maintained after comple_ion (para
2.11).
D. Implementation
3.10    Implementation Period.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about 6 years. As indicated by the implementation schedule
(Annex 9), rehabilitation, furnishing and re-equipping of project institu-
tions and technical assistance activities would be completed by December
1988. However given the disbursement experience in Bangladesh, to allow time
for the processing of final withdrawal applications and the settlement of
accounts, the proposed Closing Date would be December 31, 1990.
3.11    The Joint Secretary (Development) of the MOE has been designated
Project Coordinator. He would have the responsibility for overall project
coordination. He would: (a) coordinate all aid agency inputs (IDA, UNDF,
UNESCO, ODA, ILO/EQUIPRO etc) and be responsible on behalf of the Government
for signing or arranging to be signed, all agreements/contracts etc,; and
(b) coordinate all Government inputs to the project, particularly the resour-
ces of the DTE, the Facilities Department, TEB, Zonal Universities, Planning
Commission, External Resources Division, Ministry of Finance, Corporations
and other government departments. The Coordinator would be assisted by a
Project Director who would be responsible for the daily inplementation of the
project. The Government has designated a Project Director and his appoint-
ment would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The Project Coordinator
and Project Director would be assisted by a Chief Technical Adviser whose
primary function would be to assist in coordinating the activities of the
technical assistance experts financed by UNDP and ODA. This management team
would work closely with the four Directors in the DTE. The PIU would be
responsible for the implementation of the physical aspects of the project
(Para 2.16). The responsibility for monitoring and administration of the
technical assistance and local, regional and international fellowships would
be divided between the Directors, Planning and the Director, Administration.
The Director, Program Inspection would coordinate all inputs for the develop-
ment of the practical attachment program. The TEB would oversee the process
of examination system reform of the Polytechnics and Colleges.  The implemen-
tation structure is shown in Chart 1.
3.12    Sites.  All project institutions are existing and no additional land
has to be acquired.
3.13    Buildings DesiRns.  The survey of the physical facilities and the
preliminary architectural work for the rehabilitation and extension program
have been carried out by a local architectural firm which has been engaged by
the DTE. It is expected that this firm would also assist in the tender.Lng



-24-
and supervision of the technical aspects of the rehabilitation program (para
2.16).
3.14    Procurement.  Procurem..'nt arrangements are summarized in the table
beLcw.
PROCURE14ENT METHODS 1/
Other         NA           Total g/
Proiect Element          ICB      LCB                                  Cost
(US$ Million)
Civil Works, Professional  _       20.01                                  20.01
fees, and Furniture               (16.17)                               (16.17)
Equipment & Vehicles       21.82               6.92                       28.74
(15.24)            [4.891                     (20.13)
Books                                          0.84                       0.84
(0.43) [0.411                   (0.84)
Training & Technical
Assistance                          -         4,87           -           4.87
[4.871                     (4.87)
Incremental Expenses        -        -          -            7.74          7.74
(4.16) [0.731    (4.89)
TOTAL                    21.82   20.01       12.63          7.74        62.20
IDA                     (15.24) (16.17)    (0.43)          (4.16)      (36.00)
ODA and IJNDP                               [10.17]        [0.731      [10.90]
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Figures in brackets are the respective amounts financed by other
donors (UNDP. ODA).
!/ Figures represent total cost including contingencies.
2l Includes duties and taxes where applicable.
separate contracts for rehabilitation and furniture for each project institu-
tion (US$ 19.60 million) would be awarded on the basis of LCB procedures
which are acceptable to the Asaociation and do not exclude foreign bidders.
Civil works contracts which would range from about US$ 60,000 to about
US$ 1.10 million would be awarded in,;lusive of the costs of conatruction
materials. Contracts for electrical works would be awarded separately to
qualiZied electrical contractors. Equipment _.nd vehicles contracts
(US$ 28.74 million) would be awarded as following: (a) equipment financed by
the IDA credit would be on the basis of ICB; (b) equipment financed by ODA
(US$ 1.50 million) would be purchased according to ODA regulations; and
(c) equipment financed by UNDF (US$ 3.39 million) would be on the basis of UN
Guidelines (ICB). Books (US$ 0.84 million) would be purchased directly from
publishers, distributors or book jobbers on the basis of three competitive
price quotations when feasible. Incremental expenses include US$ 0.92 mil-
lion for salaries of additional staff and US$ 1.5 million for practical



-25-
attachment allowances for which procurement is inapplicable, and US$ 5.32
million for consumable materials and operation cost which will be procured
through normal commercial channels. Fellowships and technical assistance
financed by ODA and UINDP would be in accordance with their guidelines. All
furniture,  -vil works, equipment and vehicle contracts over US$ 250,D00 each
would be subject to prior IDA review which would cover 67% of value of works
and about 97% of equipment and vehicle value. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post-award review.
E. Disbursements
3.15    The proposed Credit would be disbursed over a period of about six
and a half years which is one year shorter than the average country disburse-
ment profile of IDA assisted projects in Bangladesh during the period
1972-1982. One year reduction is justified due to the availability of sites,
advanced stage of rehabilitation studies and the procurement of equipment by
an experienced agency. A forecast of disbursements based on a six and a half
years and adjusted to reflect the project implementation schedule (Annex 9)
is shown in Annex 10. The Credit would finance 69% of total project costs
net of taxes in following manner:
Catezory                        % of Expenditure to be Financed
Civil works, professional fees
and furniture                              80% oi total expenditures
Equipment, materials.                     100% of foreign expenditures;
vehicles and books.                       100% of local expenditures (ex
factory);
67% of local expenditures on items
procured locally (off the shelf
purchase)
Salaries of additional staff,             on a declining scale to average
consumable training materials,            about 60% of total expenditure
practical attachment allowances
and operation and maintenance costs.
3.16    Disbursements for small civil works and furniture contracts for the
equivalent of US$ 10,000 or less, salaries of additional staff, consumable
training materials and practical attachment allowances would be made on
statements of expenditures. Reimbursement applications would be submitted on
a quarterly basis for amounts of equivalent of US$20,000 or more. Other
disbursements would be fully documented.



-26-
F.  Accounting atid Auditin
3.17    The PIU would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance
w;i'h sound sccounting practices.  Separate project accounts would be prepared
iind withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation.
Expenditures on salaries and other recurrent ezpenditures would be reimbursed
against statements of expenditures certified by the Project Director. During
negotiations, the Government provide4 assurances that: (a) accounts and
financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and audited by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (b) certified copies of the
audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year, together with
the Auditors report would be furnished to IDA as soon as available, but not
later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.01    There are several benefits of the project.  The infusion into the
Colleges and Polytechnics of better trained teachers, a more practical cur-
riculum, adequate amounts of consumable training materials, books, equipment
and rehabilitated functional workshops, would necessarily lead to an output
of better trained and motivated engineers and technicians.  The management
improvement measures supported under the project, i.e., the creation of an
Inspectorate, training of workshop staff in maintenance and repairs, delega-
tion of more financial authority to Principals, a reformed examination sy8-
tem, and a new management structure for the Engineering Colleges, are all
likely to result in a more effective use of already scarce resources, and the
consolidation of a system that once bordered on being non-functional. The
lonaer term benefit of this investment however, is that Bangladesh's efforts
in development, both in the public and private sectors, wilL benefit from
properly tTainvd engineers and technicians.
Risks
4.02    There is only one significant risk to the project.  The introduction
of practical attschment programs in the TTTC, Colleges and Polytechnics would
be difficult. Its success would depend to a large degree, on the attitudes
of managers at the enterprise and field levels where most of the attachments
would be undertaken. A reluctance on the part of these managers to include a
training function as a normal part of their duties which is mostly oTiented
to production, could seriously endanger the program.  The risk is minimized
by the fact that the Government would provide funds to finance fellowship
training and honoraria for the industrial/practical tutors in the Corpora-
tions and government departments.



-27-
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED
5.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) after July 31, 1988, ensure that all new teachers to be appointed at
the Polytechnics have a Diploma in Technica). Education (para 2.03);
(b) after January 1, 1986, ensure that underqualified teachers in the
Polyte"hnics enroll in the in-service program offered by the TTTC
(para 2.03);
(c) require that the TEB would by July 31, 1987, make practical
attachments a requirement for the award of a Diploma in Engineering
and a Diploma in Technical Education (para 2.07);
(d) ensure that each College and Polytechnic would establish by
July 31, 1985 ar4 advisory committee to assist in organizing the
practical attachment progran locally (para 2.09);
(e) make annual budgetary allocations to the levels agreed (paras 2.11
and 3.09);
(f) revise upward the financial rules of 1978 so that the Principals
could undertake more building and equipment maintenance and repair
(para 2.12);
(g) make adequate budgetary provision to the Facilities Department
for maintenance and repair of technical education institutions
(para 2.14);
(h) agree that the qualifications, and terms and conditions of employment
of all consultants be acceptable to IDA (para 2.20);
(i) appoint cointerpart staff prior to the arrival of technical
assistance experts (para 2.20);
(j) appoint all additional staff according to a schedule agreed with IDA
(para 2.21);
(k) provide adequate funds to ensure prompt customs clearance of all
goods, particularly workshop equipment (para 3.05); and
(1) ensure that accounts would be audited by independent auditors, and
certified copies furnished to IDA no later than nine months after the
end of each year (para 3.17).
5.02    In addition to the above assurances the following are conditions of
credit effectiveness:



-28-
(a) issuance of a Governuent order establishing the Practical. Attacbknent
PrTogram (Para 2.08);
(b) signing of an agreement with ILO/EQUIPRO for the procurement of
equipment to be financed by IDA (Para 2.12);
(c) signing of Technical Assistance Agreements between GOB and
UNDP, and GOB and ODA (Para 2.20);
(d) approval of the two Project Proformas by GOB (Para 2.21); and
(e) appointment of the Project Director (Para 3.11).
5.03    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$ 36.0 million, to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh for a term of 50 years, including a 10-year
grace period.



TochnlcAl Mq4.*04 an Prolect
COMPARATIRE. RDOUCATION I NRIC4TORIq
AprI I 23, 1444
IKP NDITI3RP,   EDUCATION3                            fCIOMPLY1(of              IRKCIIRRP.NT
ON1 E.DUCATION  RP.cuRRENr        AI3ULT                RA418  PORe              UNIT COST  PROCRYSIRION
GNP1 PP.N               4AS PENCFIIT      EXPENDITURE0S  LITERACY PRIMARY PR IMARY            PRIMARY   PRIMARY        RATE PROM4   SECMNDARY Str.NDARAY  NIGHER8
BASF0  POP.  CAPITA   PERCENRT GN9P TOTAL CENTRAL AILOOCATRD TO: RATE                ENROLL. RCI63L          STUDERNTS EDUCATION  PRIMARY  To  ANRELL,   STIII318Tq  ENROLL,
YEARR HILLS. (00)   qEvI3TF.R  To) .COVKRNHF1N?          PRI  SEC   HI       (0)    RATrO    CYCLE9          PER        AS PP.RCENT 88CPNDARY    RATIO           Pelt         RATIO
(1979) (1979)   EDU3CATION  EXPEND3ITURE                 (2)         (19 76)    (l)          (0)      TRACKER  GNP/CAPirA           (0)          (1)      TR.ACKER        (1)
(I)       (2)          3)             (4)             (5)            (6)        (7)        (a)          (9)         (10)           (II)          ( 12)       (131)     (14)
DE.VELPED0P    COUNTIOrI 0
AUSTRALIA             no      14.66   4,80        6.3           14.6          -                              )fl3 --  0  100l        2)1         ---             99           73          11       20.90
CA74ARA       RI    ~~~~~~23.76   9:,43    7.7"a~         :Sa*5y      30a? 34'? 23"t99                06'       100           21         19.907         100            920        IR        22.60'
C.FR8MANN F.R.        79     61.2   12, 290       4.6            9.9"           ----       *-.    996        49a       Ion,e          -        ---             ISO"          .340                 12. 100
NEOTHROLANDS          79     14.0   10,4906       7              5 .1         20   35    25       9967       96          95           18         15.3            99           R2          13       12.40
NEW ZEALAND)          9       3.2b  6.091b    5.5"              13.4          37   31    28       996        0   100   o             26          11.61         100            82          1s       25.80'6
SWEDEN9               79      4.3   12,750        9.0           18 .2        31    10    10       996        990        100           19'        19.9           100           7)4        jio3'    36.%0'?
EASTERN APRI(CA
BOTSWANA              80      0.86       7206     6.3w          19 .3        48    28    IS       356        94          74          32         22.0             33"'         29         18          1.50
R)iR)i0pi3            RI      4.2       235       2 ,8bw.       1q.0         43   28    27        25          2 9'       35          3?         201.2            12             30        17         1.40
COP40ROS              99      3,41)    280        6.5"          25.4         40   286b  14        -           99'        65          45          16.0            58           210         90         1,40
OJIROII?l             43      0.3       480       5.4           10.8         60   40    .. .    10            32         ---         41         ---              60             A         19        0.50
OTHIOP01IA            RI     32.86,      1406     2.9P          39 .7        45    25    20       53          42         1 24        6)         40,0             930          14         44         0.4 5
KENYA,                79     is.3        390      5.9w          I F.Ob'       71   15    IA       4            2         74          40          1.              A             8         2818
LISOIOIR   82       1.46     ~~~~~ ~~4356  5.5        16 .9        38   32    26        536        1160       41           48           9.6           46            2!         21          1.30
MADAGASCAR            77      8.5       330       4,0w          24 .8        53   28    19        50         94h.        a3          5Sb          8.0:          38            18         23         3.IOby
HA3,AW0               8I      6.l1,    23106      3.5           11.4          38    14    25      5256        62         23          65           S. F           1 2            4        21         0.40
MAt1RITIU8            80      a.'    i.08oh    6.9              11.5         39   40       7      80         87          7A          2)6         17.1            79           45x        21         0.40
RW3ANDA               AO      5'?        2006     3.2           21.3         62    17    II       836         570        62          40          14.0)            6             40        13        0.40
ORYCRELLES            79      0.6    1,770        5,0           22.0"        3A4 3 S30   10 Ob    --    --               --          293         --              -.--           --
SOR4AI. IA            A R     4.5       280O      1.5           10.5         596b  446    66      50 ~    2b             806         296          9.06h0                      126,       22         3.90
SUDAN8               A9      19761      3806      3.0           ---          66   39    .. .      32         sI"x        68          34           1.4            44           10         16        ..
SW6AZILAND0           8O      0.6       700       7.9           8s.8         41   34    IS        456         79         s0          34          11. 2           98           376         la        2.90
TANZANIA              80     183        260       5.9           17.7         47b  10       6                 956        87           43          11.0                           2        20'        0.30
UGANDA                89     I26         30                     1."b3    376   206                48          540        6)          34         --17                            5        23         0.60
ZAI8E                 78     27.5       210"b     6 .0"         22.8         49    26    25       IS         8A4        64           42"         -               41           1 30       2?         1.106Y
ZANIA               g89       5,76      5866      4,5IP         III          48    23    22       446        95         90           48          12.             19           16         22          1.50
ZIROABRI8E77                            700b      5.1           19 .5        62   32       6      446        90          55          39         20.0             a5           15         2 3        0.00
W181T1R8 AFRlCA
SEE41                 79      3,46      3206      6.5"          35.8         43   21       5     ilb         42          30          46         14.0             30           II         43         1.00y
CA740R008             78      8.2       590       2.9y          16.0y        338  43'  20"                    74?        45'         SOY         11.8"1          20"          147        26          1.30Y
C.A.R.                79      2 .2      280       3.58?         20 .6ay---                                                          658Y                        ---          -          -.         0.700y
CHAD                  76      4.4       120       2,4bioy       21.7, 6is                                    25'          -          77                 ---                     P 3Y     21         0.20?
CONGO                 78      1.3       470       940awY        27.70?                                                               546?                        30                      4315'Y      4.800a7
GABOR                 77      0.6    3.420        3 7by          8.4y                                                    ~ -        46by                        ---                      igby      2.8o"y
CAIORA                77      0.6       220       3,3aw          6 ,5b       46   2 5'   68    10b           406?        90'         2,6y       46.7a            40           I 21,07    17
G13A3A                76     11.3       400       4.4y          155            -         - -- --             71b6,0     --          276?by                                   36bIy      21
GUIREA                79      5.3        290P'    4.6P          --           25'"  28'  28"    20             34.        36          38         20.0'1P          85           18         29         7.8008
1908Y COASTr         81       R,36   1,070b    10.8             45.0         33   46    13       306         60         86           43         26.0            47            158"Y      26         1.90')'
LIBMERIA              89      1.90      520       4.6           19.6         41   23    24       30          52          32          35         20.0             76           22         20         2.90
861.                  8I      7,b        190      4.28          21.7"       3IC    21    it       10         20         60           44         15.7             66             1        11         0.9007
MAURITANIA            78      1.6b      320b      5.5           16.9         "'3   43    25      17b         32          60)         46         52.0             30            8         25         0.37
NIGZII                78      5.2       300       4.3ay         16.40?       520  438   5"        8           17         56'         41"        38.7'           40             2         246        0.20Y
NIGERIA               77     82.6       910       4.1s'          9.6                                                                                                          I -- --  -  ----jZ  25  0.17Y
30N(GAI               7 7     5.5       450       5.8            7.          46   34    20       10          34b03y                  43b'v       .               20           30         21         2.206?
RIERRA LEOME          77                250       4b            36 .061--5b                                 3 7                     35         25.0b           84            15Si       22         0.6067
TOGO                  78      2.4       400       6.5tIw        26.5q        308'   2     21"       18         4         4           546?       3.05                             b2xy0    44        160y
UPPER VOLTA           78      5.6        180      3.404w        19.3"?       31    16    32      ---          156?       23          536?       52.5?            89             363tY    25         0.02?
LATIN  IMERICA ARn  TIRE CARIBBEANI
A1RGENTINA            78     2 7 .3 ~2,210        2.7           10.9         43'  31a   14a    93b            89         52          17           -              87           31           8       23.00
RAHLA3AS              79      0.2    2,770        5.7           19.1         36   36    I1       93ob        99         97           24         ---             97            75         19          -
MoRwos      78      0.2    2,~~~~~~~~680  8.5"y'      22 .1"       435  310   16'    996           1oo0        89          27y         18.9' 1                      757        20Y         -
BOLIVIA               88      5.4       550       4.I"y         30.5"                --    - 63           74?        --          23?        ---              ---15                   ---       12.607
BRAZIL.               79    318.5    1 770        3.8            6.2         SI           I4     76          73'?Y                    23"?        4,56 b         6*             s?       14ay      12,62b
CAILI                 76     10.9    1 890        3.2 by        133,46                        - ---        6zr                  346?        --               -           55bKv      20~ by    1.90 y
COILGIUIA             88     26.7b  I I80O-    3.3              75.8         35    20    20      4lb          78         36          32           6.6            ---          47         20        10.92'?
COSTA, RICA           88      2.2b   I,410b       8.4           31.1         40    27    33      90          93          77          13           5.5            77           40         27        14.00
CUBA                  78      9.4        8-'       .0           11 .0               --   -- 96           Ii2 bxy     98          14by       ---              98           7,bxy      35        19.02by
ROR4I9ICALN REP.      88      5.3    1,030        2.9           13.0          39    21   22      686          40         31          59           3.2            94           30         33        16.00
ECU7ADOR              88      9,46)  1I10         6,4P          36.7         45   31    16       81          105         ---         36          12.6           86            47         16        29.00
EL  SALVADOR          77      4.4       640       3             2? 3.I61      64     8    27     67          4260?       32          39         ---              41           26630?     276?       7.90by
OOATIR0A1A            78      6.8    1,0110       1,70?y        12.6b         --6         -- -              496030      -           356?Y      --9                           356307     1Rby       5.50?
GUYANOA               76      8.8       630       8,1by         13.8y-6?-                         -          996070     --          376?          ..                         596:0       ---       3.06by
HIAITI                84      sob       230       3.4w           7 .9O?      65      9     6     23b          50         20          4           390             a2            a0        2           28
907N8DU84S            78      3.6       520       3,5b          14 .36?      62"  15'  19"    60              496X30     30'         416?        12.80           088          21'?        19        8.007
JAMAICA              84       2.1    1,110        6.5           13.7         37   43    20       90          98         98           40           2.3           95            81         22         8.90
310X010      40    ~~~~~~~~6.5    1,8      .           1."           4     3      5      9           98         53           46          9.5            86           56          17        10.30
NICARAGUA             78      2.6      I18        3   I"          It' -o6                        906 ,6                  24          376                                      266        30~
PANM(A         ~~~      ~~78  I 8b  i.55ob   5,367y       21.46?        42"  13'  13        426         956?                    256        -16-5                        56          27b       20.40by
PAELAI3LAY            79      3.0    1,140        1.4w          14.2         42    17    20      84           93         32          28           3,jr           76           22         12         0.70
PERU                  80     16.6    1 000        3.6           14 :3b       53    IS    19      80          9l3         56          39           9.8            89           39         22        14.407
TRINIDAD 6 TOR.    77          1.1    3,910       4.66?          8.6         48   32    20       95           98         91          30          10.5?,          49           62         24          -
0RLIGIIAI              8      29       ,0         2.5            9-46             -             94bx6                                24        ---              -.            64~       --        17.R0'y
VENEZtUELA            78     14.4    3,440        5.3?          18.9682                                     13660x       -          28         ---                           3860       17        21 .10?



BANGOLADESH                                                                       Pago  2
rechinical Education ProJect
COMPATIRTVE ERI5CATIONO INDICATORS
April 23, 1984
CENTRAL
GOVERNMIENTI
oN EUCATION  RicuRIReNT         ADIULT              RATE FOR                UNIT COST  PROGRESSION
GNP PER                AR PERCENT      EXPENDITUJRES  LITERACY PRIMARY PRIMARY           PRIM4ARY  PRIMARY      RATE PROM   SECONDARY SECnNDARY HIGHER
BASE  POP.  CAPITA  PERCENT GNP TOTAL CENTRAL ALLOCATED TO: RATE                ENROLL. SCHOOL         STUDENTS EDUCATION  PRIM4ARY TO  ENROLL.    STUDEN?S  ENRnLL,
YEAR MILLS. (U5$)   DEVOTED TO  GOVERNMEHT            PRI  SEC  Hi    (2)    RATIO   CYCLE             PER       AN PERCENT SECONDARY   RATIO           PP.8        RATIO
(197) (179)    DUCAIONEXPENDITIIRE            MR         (1976)    (2)          (2)      TEACHRP.   GNP/CAPIT4       (2)          (9)    TEACHER        (2)
(I)      (2)         (3)            (43            (5            (6)        (7)       (8)         (9)         (10)          (1I)         (12)        (13)     (14)
FAST ASIA AND THlE PACIFIC
CHINA                 el   996 Ob      2006     i.6           8,3         34   39   Z7        66b       80         63          23         7.0           72           3$         17         3.70
INDONRSIA            81    1509b    520         2.1           9)          70   24    6       32b        98        61          37         11.0           74           27         26        3.70
*b   1
KOREA                82    39.3      ,6366      7.7w         20,8R        34   34   31       96         99         98         43         19.0           98           84         38       21.80
MALAYSIA             81     14,2b   I1,788      9.2          22,0         32w  37w  15S5    6Ub         96aE      97          22         12.2w          87           454        19        3.704
PAPUA N.G.           03      3.0       7        5.4          19,0         40    17 *22       -          60         734        3JIn       is.0           35           1310       274       1.00
PHILIPPINES          79    483ob    S90b                     14,0         64    346* --      756        84        65          31          7.)           89           55         36       21.00
SINGAORE             NO      2.4   4,620        2.7           6.7         39   40   16       83         92        82          31          N.H           96           55         22        R.OO
SOLOMON ISL.         NO      0.2      460       4.2Pw        )S,011      4)   34   Z0        --.-       60        NO          26         ---            35           IN
THAILAND             so    47:3b      723b      3.4          20,9         59    1s   1s      866       9q          --          17         935                        29         22        4.00
SOUTH ASIA
BNGHLADESH           79    92.3k       90       j11p         10.,ay      51    17   20       22b        63Y         -         53          5.6           --            4         23        1.43
INDIA                77   659.6       210       3,9y          9.9557              -  -   36         795t       ---        41         ---            ---          2Nx        ---       8.304Y
NEPAL                82     15.06     1596      1.4         ---           -- -- --            JR        70         ---        us         ---            ---          2)         23        3.704
PAKIISTAN            79    79.7       270       2,ocy         5,ly        39   26   27       24         56K        80*        48          6.',          51           20x        17        6.00
EUROPE. M1IDDLE EAST AND MONTH AFRICA
AFGHAHISTAN          77     13.5       --       1.7           3.7         47    19   15       12        31by       69          376         -            62            N         22by      1.aoY
ALGERIA              79     18.3b  2,770        2.8H4        12.3         34a5  260  21a    35          N3Y        454        37          7.0?          35a          39Y        26        3.70Y
EGYPT          *     N      43.0      5396      3)4aw         4,5         314  35"  364    44           R4X        50a        34          9.Aa          83a          43         19       1.
CREECE         ~76      9.2i,                I ,5       10,6        37   26   21                   976                   29b         6.2?          ---          791        276      170?
IRANd                79    36.9                 : 7           4,14Y                   s            Iola       --          324"-                                  448t       249       4.9134Y
IRAQ                 79     12.6    2,719       4.3ay         6.945'100?OO                                        ...        28         ---            ---          4545Y     394        9.30av
IRELAND              8t      3*4b  4,480       6.34Y         1I.81Y-98                                  93        94          29         ---            98           81         14       11.00
JORDAN         N~~~I 2.26  1,420b          4.95          02         1      6    1   10108                    8           32          7.2           91           921        25       19.00
LEBANON              79      2.3      --18,6                              --    ----          ..        99         ---        19         -6--46                                          27.80"y
MOROCCO              so    19.5       740       6.34w        17,54       36   44   20        29         59ay       33         39         2-9.7          40           251        21        4.50
OMAN2                92      0.9b  5,920b       3,545a         .1          -      -    - j,39b7        7J1        65         25         ---            96           11         14
PORTUrAL             79      9.8b  2,060        3.6         22.2         50   28   11        78         97         20         I9a        12.8           NRa          451        170      1.301
ROMANIA              78     33.1   2,100        3,96?         6.27- ----                    99        1066        --         2336       --             98           84b%       336      10.60by
SPAIN                76    S~. e3   4,920       M.1          16.87         -- _ -           - ._       98bY       --         396         -              -           67b5'     2.4- 6ob0y
SYRZA                78      8.6    1,170       4.4P         10.3        39   25   24        58b        87by      80          356         -             68           41by      3-lb      12.60
TUNISIA              79      6.4    1130        7.0p         19.0        42    39   18       962       1001       No          396        12.8           30           30x        30        6.00
TURKEY               81      4:76   1,4601      3.1          26.2------                      73b      2181C       90a        28          7.9           51           3R         20        6.70
YEMEN A.R.          so       6.8      420       5.0p'        12.0        94      7            21b       37         12a        35?        67.0           a5            3        20         1.10
YEM4EN P.O.R.        82      2.01,   is0b       7.6           9,7        63a  144   9A    53            61         34         25         22.0A          46           17        20         2.50
NuMbeRY FOf CoVEntrIes:CUnI                  84                94       70   69   67        76         98        64          94         62             72           9I        86        89
Range:                                      (1.4-             3.7-  (19-  (7-  (5-    (8-          (15-       (12-         (17-       (1.1.          (6-          (2-       (R-       (0.01-
10.0)           45.0)  04)   46)  36)        99)       119)      99)          77)        67.0)          99)          84)       48)       29.0)
Quartiles: Upper:                            5.6             20.8      52   35   22        00         96         79         42         20             85           45        25        10.6
Median:                         4.0             15.5      43   27   is        52         83        60          ?5         12             61           25        21         5.7
Lower:                          3.0             10.5      37    Is   13       24         56        35          27          7             40l          13        18         1.0
Quartile Deviations                           1.1             5.1     7.5  9.0  4.0   23.0         20.5       22.5         7.5        6.4           11.5         15,5       8.5         4.8
Meant                                        4.5             16.1      46   28   10        53         75        60          36         16             60           31        21  .    6.9
Standard Deviation,                          1.8              7.4      13   10      7      30         26        25          11         13             27           23          7        7.4
Medlan,                                      4.0             15.5      43   28    19       53         83        61          35         12             61           25        32         3.7
SYMBOLS:                                                            TOOTNOTES:
DATUM UNAVAILABLE                                               A - DATUM PRIOR TO BASE YEAR                               5 - MINISTRY OP EDUICATION (MOE) ONLY
..NAGNITUDE NIL1 OR BJEOLICISLE                                    B - DATUM MORE RECENIT THANA  BASE YEAR                    T - NOR ANDO STATE GOVEBM2SNT ONLY
I  DATUM QUIESTIONABLE.                                             N - CURRENT PRICES                                        55 * PUBLIC EXPENDITURE ONtY
a  INCLUDES PART-TIME STUDENTS                                      P -GDP                                                    X - INCLUDES OVER-AGE STUDENTS
V - UNESCO SOURCES
SOURCESs                                                                                                                                      Z - LOWER SECONDAPY ONLY
Columms I 408 2: WJorld Bark Atlaa or 1350 misaono.s
Columns 3 to 14:  lBRO ifiesiota., Government sources and/or UlnoOro Statietical Yearbook.
Coaparative Education Data are useful In the evaoluation of varlous education systems and ana37sis of relative stages of educational developenat heEveen various
countriao. However, on the basis of the present data, ctoso-atOional ootaisrison should be approached with groat caution. Data presented in the above Sable have
been collected largely by Bank missions freet Ntovareent sources, the remainder are staff eatOMates or data from. Unesco.  Efforts have bean vmade to steederdl2e,
definitions and, wiEthin limits, to check She accuracy of She data.  Nevertheless, auch data are atlil Im.perfect in sevoral reapects and tha Rank to working So
Improve them progreasivsly on the occasioon of its operational vork. In the use of these data, the followloig quealfication.t should be kept En mind:
(1) 'Education' an defined tn the table Includes all education and training, bolt. formal and non-form,Al.
(2) 'Prieary' education refera So education at the first level and 'aeeosdary' education refers to all education at the secondary level regardless of type
(e.g., general, tech::ical, agtIcs.ltural).
(3)  'Llteracy rates- (0o1, 6) are often obtalned free country censusea,  In many countrias they Are only approxisarfoem and it In doubtful that any uniform
definition of 'literate' has been followed c.nisitently.
(4) 'Public emependiture in education' (cols. 4 and 5) refers to all capital and recurrent expenditures devoted to education by public and quaoe-fuhlic
agenicies.
(3) 'Enrcllaent ratio#' (colo, 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and are the percentage of eligible children enrolled full-time In the approPriate school,
public and privata by level. They are often subject So a wide margin of error In the developing countries owing to vsriattone in the accuracy of baseic
data (i.e., age-specific population and ensollnenbs). Enroilmant figures frequently are higher than the number of studenta actually in school. Over-aged
students whose inclusiot is Indicated by footnotes also can inflate the ration.



-31-
ANNEX 2
Page I
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Education in Bangladesh
Introduction
1.      Technical manpower falls into three categories.  Each iB distin-
guished by the relative amounts of manipulative skills and the application of
mathematics, science and technology. This is illustrated below:
I  Skilled       I                I Professional    I
I  Craftsman   I Technicians        Euxngineers
I Manipulative Skill             l                    I
l               l             Application of Math,  I
Ii  ^        Science & Technology  I
2.      Technical manpower is a sine qua non for industrial development.  The
adequacy of the supply of manpower depends upon numbers, quality of skills
and its proper utilization. The engineer, the technician and the skilled
worker form a three-man team responsible for the effective execution of an
engineering project. This concept of the three-man team form the basis of
the three level technical educational program in Bangladesh: (a) Degree
programs for engineers; (b) Diploma programs for technicians; and (c) Voca-
tional-trade programs for skilled workers. Table 1 shows the number of
institutions, enrollments and output.
Degree Programs
3.      The responsibility for engineering and technological education at
the degree level rests with the Bangladesh University of Engineering and
Technology (BUET) (Dhaka), Bangladesh Agriculture University (BAU) (Mymen-
singh), four Engineering Colleges located at Dhaka, Khulna, Chittagong and
Rajshahi, the College of Textile Technology and the College of Leather Tech-
nology. BUET and BAU are both autonomous institutions established under two
separate Acts of the Government. The four engineering colleges and the
colleges of Textile and Leather Technologies are under the administrative
control of the Ministry of Education, through the DTE; but are affiliated for
academic purposes to the respective general universities of the region in
which each is located. The Chittagong Engineering College is affiliated to
the Chittagong University, both the Khulna and Rajshahi Engineering Colleges
to the Rajshahi University, while the Dhaka Engineering College is deemed a
constituent college of the Dhaka University in the Faculty of Sciencee The
two Colleges of Textile Technology and Leather Technology are both affiliated
to the Dhaka University as its constituent colleges. All Eix colleges at
present conduct only first degree courses.



-32-
ANNEX 2
Page  2
4.      Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technologv (BUET),  The BUET
is the apex institution of the technical education system. The university
offeTs a four-year bachelors degree in civil, mechanical and electrical
engineering, architecture, chemistry, metallurgy and physics. A masters
degree program of an additional two years is also offered in most subject
areas. The medium of instruction is English. Entrance requirements to these
programs are highly selective and only a limited number of students with the
highest passes of the Higher School Certificate (USC, Grade 12) are admitted.
5.      Bangladesh Agriculture University_(BAU).  The BAU located at Mymen-
singh is under the general administration of the Ministry of Agriculture.
BAU has six faculties, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Science,
Agricultural Engineering and Technology, Agriculure Economics and Rural
Sociology and Fisheries. It admits holders of the HSC (Grade 12) to the BSc
program. Total enrollment is about 3,200 with a teaching of about 300. On
the average, BAU has a total annual output of some 350 BSc and MSc graduates,
the majority of whom come from three faculies, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry
and Agriculture Economics.
6.      The three Engineering Colleges (Chittagong. Khulna and-Raishahi)
offer four-year courses leading to the B.Sc. Engineering degree in Civil,
Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. Admission to the program is contin-
gent on passing the regular Higher School Certificate (HSC) examination
(Grade 12) at least in the second division with Physics, Chemistry and Math-
matics as subjects. Those who have passed the SSC examination (Grade 10)
at least in the second division and the Diploma-in-Engineering Examination of
the TEB in the first division, are also eligible to apply for admission.
Admission is made, in order of merit, on the results of a competitive written
admission test examination conducted by each engineering college. The
present intake capacity for each of these colleges is 180, equally dis-
tributed amongst the three departments of Civil, Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering. The three colleges follow the annual system. Each college
conducts a half-yearly examination during each academic session, while the
annual examinations are conducted by the respective affiliating university at
the end of each academic year and are designated as Part I, Part II, Part III
and Part IV examinations respectively. The Part I examination (on common
courses) can be regarded as a qualifying examination for promotion to the to
the second year class, while the combined results of the Part II, III & IV
examinations with equ'al weightage, are considered for the determining the
class to be awarded in the degree. A candidate qualifies for the degree only
when he has passed all the Part I, II, III and IV examinations.
7.      The Dhaka Engineering College is the fourth engineering college,
established in 1980, specifically for providing an opportunity to holders of
Diploma-in-Engineering to enhance their academic qualification to degree
level in Civil, Electrical and Mechanical Engineering. This College selects,
through ar. admission test, diploma holders for admission into the degree
course and a selected candidate is required to successfully complete a



ANNEX 2
Page 3
14-week special course in Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and English as a
pre-requisite before being allowed to join the B,Sc. Engineering Course. The
College follows the semester system. The total duration of the degree course
is, in additio,. to the 14-week course, three academic years and each academic
year is divided into two semesters, each of 16 working weeks. The first
batch of 120 students was admitted in 1980. The annual intake is to be
increased to 180 over the next few years. The first batch of 120 students
has been distributed equally between the three branches of engineering. The
second batch of students began their classes in October 1983. There is no
output of graduates as the first batch is still in the second year.
8.      The Bangladesh College of Textile Technologv was established in 1950
as the Textile Institute, to offer diploma-level courses in textile technol-
ogy, textile chemistry and jute technology. This Institute was up-graded in
1978 to a College, affiliated academically to the Dhaka University to offer
four-year courses leading to B.Sc. degree in Textile Technology. For admis-
sion into the regular degree course, a pass in the HSC examination at least
in the second division with Physics, Chemistry and Mathmatics an.4 the SSC
examination at least in the second division. Eligible applicants are
required to pass a written admission test in Physics, Chemistry, Mathmatics
and English (functional) and selection is made on the basis of the results in
this test. The number of seats available for the 1983-84 academic session is
50.
9.      The Bangladesh College of Leather Technology was established in 1978
by up-grading its predecessor, the Bangladesh Institute of Leather Technology
which was established in 1949.  It is under the administrative control of the
Ministry of Education through the DTE, but for academic purposes affiliated
to the Dhaka University. The college first started offering the four-year
degree course from the session 1979-80. A special two-year degree course was
also offered by the college specifically for diploma holders in Leather
Technology, but this has been discontinued and no student has been admitted
since 1982. According to the up-grading scheme the annual in-take capacity
into the four-year degree course is 20, minimum admission requirement being
HSC. The college offers also the following courses, in addition to the
degree course: (a) Advanced Certificate course in Leather Technology (two
year course for SSC passed etudents), Intake capacity - 30; (b) Advanced
Certificate course in Footwear Technology (entry qualification SSC), Annual
Intake capacity = 30 (two year course); and (c) Trade courses (one year after
Grade VIII): Artisan in Tanning (30 seats), Artisan in Footwear (30 seats)
and Artisan Leathergoods (30 seats). The colleges of Textile and Leather
Technologies follow the annual system. They conduct the half-yearly examina-
tions for degree students and the affiliating university of Dhaka conduct the
final annual examinations at the end of each academic year. These final
examinations are designed as Part I, II, III and IV examinations. The Stu-
dents of Leather Technology follow the same courses from first year to the
third year and specialization occurs in the fourth year. Division/Classes
are awarded on the combined results of all four parts of final examinations
conducted by the University.



-34-                           ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.     Bangladesh Agriculture College (BAC) is located in Dhaka.  It offers
a degree in general agriculture, and its academic program is affiliated with
BAU from what it obtains its authority to award degrees. It has an enroll-
ment of about 500, a teaching staff of about 55, and an average yearly output
of 60.
11.     Technical Teachers Training College (Established in 1964) has not
functioned since 1977. During the period of operation, it offered a two-year
degree course for holders of Diploma in Technical Education. The course was
designed for the technical teachers of Polytechnic Institutes to up-grade
their academic qualifications through advanced courses in Engineering and
pedagogical sciences. The minimum qualification for admission into this
course was a technological diploma and a technical teacher training diploma
(obtained from a course at the same Technical Teachers' Training College)
plus teaching experience. The curricula and syllabi of the courses were
prescribed by the Dhaka University which also conducted the final examina-
tions and awarded the degree. Trainees could have specialized in any of the
following branches: Civil, Mechanical, Electrical and Power Engineering.
Courses leading to the Diploma-in-Technical Education were also available at
the Technical Teachers' Training College. These were one-year courses and
the minimum qualification for admission was a technological diploma from a
Polytechnic and some teaching experience. The curricula consisted of both
pedagogical and technological courses as approved by the TEB, which also
conducted the examinations for awarding the Diploma Certificates.
Diploma Programs
12.     Polytechnics.  Diploma courses in various fields of engineer-
ing/technology, couimercial and industrial subjects are offered at 17
Polytechnic InstitLites which are located at district headquarters.  The
Government has rec'ently decided to establish with assistance from Saudi
Arabia and UNESCO', a Mohila (Women) Polytechnic at Dhaka. These institutes
are all under the administrative control of the DTE, but academic control
rests with the Technical Education Board (TEB). The Board was set up by an
Act of the Government to organize, regulate, supervise, and develop technical
education in the country. The Board has its own executive body. Public
examinations are held for every type of courses under the auspices of the TEB
and, all diplomas and certificates are awarded by the Board. Diploma courses
in the following technologies and commercial sub4ects are available at the
institutes: (a) Diploma-in-EngineerinR (three years): Architecture,
Automobile, Chemical, Civil, Electrical, Electronics, Food, Mechanical, Power
and Form Technologies (Power); and (b) Diploma-in-commerce (two years):
Accounting and Secretarial Science. This wide range of courses is not
offered at all the institutes, but the majority offer courses in Civil,
Electrical, Mechanical and Power Technologies. Courses in other technologies
are offered by institutes depending on the local requirements and facilities
available in them. Courses leading to the Diploma-in-Commerce are offered at



ANNEX 2
Page 5
the attached commercial departments of Polytechnic Institutes and six Commer-
cial Institutes, Each institute has a Principal, a Vice-Principal and a
Registrar and other administrative staff. The Principal is the administra-
tive head of the organization. Each teaching department is headed by f Chief
Instructor and is composed of the following categosies of teachers: (ai
Technical Department: Chief Instructor, Instructors, Foreman (Workshop) and
Junior Instructors; and (b) Related Subiect Deiartments (non-technical):
Chief Instructor, Instructors, Lecturers and Junior Instructors. The number
of teachers in all polytechnics is about 1001. About 80% of the teachers
have had no training (practical or subject-specialization) beyond their
Diploma. Some have had some industrial training, but it .as been irregularly
organized. There are very few degree-holdere as teachers.
13.     Monntechnics.  Diploma courses are also offered at the Glass and
Ceramics Ins;titute. Graphic Arts Institute and the Survey Institute. These
institutes are also under the administrative control of DTE, and academic
control of the TEB Admission requirement is a Grade 10 education.
14.     Examinations.  Polytechnic and Monotechnic Institutes follow the
semester system; each academic year being divided into two semesters each of
16 weeks duration. Grade 10 is the minimum entry requirement, and uniform
admission procedures are laid down by the TEB, Eligible candidates are
required to sit for a written admission test, and admission is purely on the
order of merit. Students are required to indicate their choice of department
at the time of admission. Recently, a revised examination system for the
award of Diploma-in-Engineering has been adopted by the TEB. According to
this new system, the institutes would conduct both the mid-semester and
semester-final examinations. Mid-semester examinations comprise 25% of the
total marks allocated for a subject; class tests, quizzes, attendance and
conduct 25% and the Board-based semester final examination, the remaining
50%. Mark distribution for the practical portion of subjects have also been
prescribed. A student is promoted from one semester to the next semester
irrespective of whether he has failed in one or more subjects, theoretical,
practical/sessional i.e., a student is allowed to carry oves subjects from
one semester to the other, which he can clear in the following semester. A
student will proceed upto the end of the forth semester or second year in the
manner as described above. If a student has carried over subjects failed in
the 1st, 2nd, 3rd and 4th semester, he will have the opportunity to appear
and pass in the failed subject:s in the 5th and 6th semesters compreheneive
examinations conducted by the TEB or even earlier. The B4erd will conduct
the Diploma Final Part I and Part II examinations at the end of 5th and 6th
semester respectively. Award of Diploma is based on the combined results of
both the Part T and Part II examinations.
15.     AAriculture Training Institutes (ATIs).  Pre-service training to the
diploma level for agricultural technicians, of which majority are employed as
general extension workers (BSs), is conducted at Agricultural Training
Institutes (ATIs). The Division of Training (DOT) in the Ministry of



-36-                           ANNEX 2
Page 6
Agriculture administers the ATIs. Originally these institutions were
intended to train Block Supervisors for emplroyment solely by the Directorate
of Agriculture-Extension and Management (DAEM). Since DAEM has now been
abolished and merged with other agencies and due to the increasing and varied
demand from other government agencies and from the private sector, training
content has been broadened to ensure that ATI graduates can perform multi-
functional tasks, both in the public and private sectors.
16.     There are 11 ATIs with a total enrollment capacity of 2,720.  Cur-
rently 1,027 trainees are enrolled and undergoing first year training leading
to a two-year diploma; there are at present no second year trainees due to
student unrest two years ago. Five of the ATIs have been recently con-
structed and equipped; one by GOB, one through a Danish International
Development Assistance (DANIDA) grant and three by an ongoing IDA assisted
project (The Agricultural & Rural Training Project: Credit 621-BD). Four
existing ATIs were also renovated and partially equipped under this project.
One other existing ATI is located in old and dilapidated premises which will
be vacated in 1985 when a further two new ATIs are completed; one is now
under construction by Government at Barisal, and the other would be built
at Joydebpur under a second DANIDA. grant.
17.     The ATI dip'loma courE-  4sts two years.  Places at ATIs are offered
to grade ten leavers on             ive basis.  The current curriculum, adopted
in 19/9, covers general  &Aicuitural subjects including animal husbandry and
fisheries. The female students take home economics and home management
courses during the time male students take Zarm machinery courses.  During
the first year, training is conducted entirely on campus. During the second
year, however, trainees spend about 30% of their time in the field under an
apprenticeship to serving extension officers.
Certificate Programs
18.     This program trains and prepares skilled workers in different trades
and vocations. Successful trainees are awarded certificates. These certifi-
cate courses were originally of 1-2 years duration after eight/ten years of
general schooling and offered at 35 Vocational Training Institutes (VTIs) and
5 Technical Training Centers (TTCs). Prior to September 1982, the VTIs were
under the administrative control of the Directorate of Technical Education
(DTE) while the TTCs were under the Bureau of Manpower, Ximployment and Train-
ing of the Ministry of labor (BNET). Both sets of institutions are now
managed by the BMET. BMET has also introduced modular courses of six months
duration in the VTIs and TTCs, offering certificates of Grade III, Grado II
and Grade I levels. The TTCs and VTIs are to be gradually merged into a
system of Vocational Training Centers (VTCs).
19.     Technical Training Institutes (TTC).  There are 5 existing TTCs and
7 new ones under construction. These insitutions offer 6 month course
recently replaced a two-year program. Admission requirement is a Grade 8
educatior..



-37-                           hAEX 2
Page 7
20.     Vocational TraininR Inatitutes (VTIs).  There are 35 VTIs located
at each of the major sub-divisions. These also offer the six month modulon
courses in 10 Trades. Unlike the TTCs, each VTI does not offer the broad
range of courses, but is limited to 2 trades.
Table 1: Institutions by Tvye. Number. Enrollment. Outvut
and Capacity Utilization 1982
Admis-              Total      Total               First    Capacity
Number      sion Re-  Teach-  No. of    Current   Yearly  'Year          Utiliza-
Name/Type of  of Insti-  quirement ing         Places   Enrollment Average Intake   tion (6)
Institution   tution       CGrade)   Staff  Available  (1982)    Output  CaDacity as 2 (5)
1             2          3         4         5          6          7        8
BUET                1        12        226      2,290      2,761        477      560     120.00
BAU                 1        12        300                 3,200        350
Engineering
Colleges          4         12        152      3,240      2,178        184     840       67.20
College of
Leather Tech.    1          12        n.a.        100        112        10      60      112.00
College of
Textile Tech.    1          12        n.a.       360        348         48     120       96.67
Bangladesh Agric.
College           1         12         55                   500         60
Monotechnics       3         10         59         115        118        23      65      102.00
Agriculture Trg.
Institutes       11         10                 2,720      1,027       800                37.70
Polytechnics      17         10      1,001     15,420    11,800       1,262   5,540       76.50
Technical
Trg. Centers      5           8       187      3,981      3,299     2,866   3,981        82.86
Vocational Trg.
Institutes       35          B        148      1,760      1,844       380   1,020       104.70
Source:  Bangladesh Bureau cof Education Information and Statistics.



-38-
ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
T9CHNICA.L EDUCATION PROJECT
External Assistance to Technical/Vocational Education
Duration of Assistance,
Level                    Institution                                  Donor                Amount (USS million)
Degree        Bangladesh University of
Engineering and Technology                               USAID             1962-1972
Bangladesh Agriculture Univerisity                        USAID             1962-1972
Graduate Training Institute (BAU)                         IDA               Cr.407-BD 1973-80, US$21.0
Bogra Academy for Rural Devlopment                        IDA               Cr.621-BD 1976-82, US$12.0
Islamic Center for Ter$nical and Vocational           ORGANIZATION OF
Training and Researb                                 ISLAMIC COUNTRIES    1980-
Technical Teacher TrAining College                        USAID             1964-1972
FORD FOUNDATION       1964-1970
EnRineering Colletes:  Ihulna                             NORAD
Chittagong                        NORAD             1979-1983
Dhaka (Joydebpur)                                         USSR              1972-1984
College of Leather Technology                             IDA               Cr. BD 1981-84
Diploma       Polytechnics:  Dhaka                                  FORD FOUNDATION       1955-1965
DANIDA            1974-1985
Chittagong                                            UN SPECIAL FUND
Rhulna                                                AUSTRALIA
New:  Barisal, Rangpur, Bogra, Pabna, Sylhet              IDA               Cr.407-BD 1973-80, US$21.0
Epuinment only: Comilla, Feni, Mymenrsiugh,
Rajahahi, Dinajpur, Jessore, Kushtia, Faridpur            IDA               Cr.407-BD 1973-80, US$21.0
Kohilla Polytechnic                                   SAUDI ARABI           Septl982, US$1.9
Glass and Ceramics Inatitute                              UNDP
7 Agriculture Training Institutes                         IDA               Cr.621-BD 1976-02, US$12.0
Agriculture Training Institutes                           IDA               Cr.1396-BD 1983, US$8.1
Certificate  Technical Training Centers
Chittagong, Chittagong Hill Tracts, Paridpur              UNDP
Maridpur (Dhaka)                                          SEATO
Bangla-German (Dhaka)                                  GERMANY F.R.         1974-1982
Rajehabi, Hymensiagh, Bogra, Bansal, Rhulna, NCSDT        IDA               Cr.912-BD 1979-  , U3S25.0
15 Thana Training Units ( eTUs)                           IDA               Cr.621-BD 1976-82, US$12.0
35 Vocational Trainiing Institutes (VTIs)                 SIDA              1974-Ongoing



-39-
ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Manpower Demand and Supply  for Engineers and Technic-.ans
1. ENGINEERS
A.  DEMAND                               1980             1990
Stock           Demand
7,620 aJ         19,500 bi
B. SUPPLY
1980 Stock in 1990                                    5,620
Cummulative output from
4 Engineering Colleges and BUET                     14,580 cJ
20,200
2. TECHNICIANS
A.  DEMAND                               1980             1990
Stock           Demand
15,724 af         58,100 EJ
B. SUPPLY
1980 Stock in 1990                                   11,591
Cuumiulative output from
Polytechnics                                       47.300 Li
58.891
a/  Source: Second Five Year Plan: GOB - Planning Commission.
b/ Engineers: includes number of posts available in 1980 plus additional
requirement of 1,200 each year to 1990.
Technicians: includes number of posts available in 1980 plus an additional
requiremeat of 3,600 (ratio of 3 technician: 1 engiaeer) each year to 1990.
c/  Engineers: includes output from specialized colleges and BAU (Eiigineering
Technology).
Technicians: includes output from Monotechnics. -



-40-                         ANNEK 5
BANGLADESR
TECHEICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Consumable Training Materials
A. Proposed Level of Provision per Student per Year
Actual
Provision
Institution                          (1982)   FY85   FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89
Technical Teacher Training College       -      35      45     50      55     60
Engineering Colleges                    20      30      35     45      55     60
Polytechnic Institutes                  15      25      30     40      50     50
B. Proposed Level of Provision by Institution
No. of
Institution           Students    PY85    FY86      FY87      FY88      FY89
per Year   --               -- US$
Technical Teacher
Training College         235      8,225   10,575   11,750   12,925   14,100
Engineering Colleges      2,610    78,300   91,350  117,450  143,550  156,000
Polytechnic Institutes  12,680   317,000  380,000  507.2D0  634.D00  634.000
Annual Totals                   403,525  481,925  636,400  790,475  804,1O
TOTAL        .US$ 3.116.425 1,
C. Proposed Level of IDA Financing
FY85    FY86     FY87      FY88      FY89
----------  us$
85%     75%      60%       50%       5D%
US$  342,996  361,443  381,840  395,237  402,050
TOTAL   .............  US$ 1,883.566
1/ Excludes contingencies.



-41-
ANNEX 6
Page I
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Foreign Experts
Man-Months
Institution      Field of Specialization   Total
<Mx FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90
Ministrv of        Project Management           42      6   12   12   12
Education         Restructuring Colleges       12      -   12    -    -
Technical          Senior Technical Advisor/
Teacher            Curriculum Development
Training          Advisor Electrical           36      6   12   12    6
College              i    Mechanical           24      -   12   12    -
(TTTC)               "    Civil                24      -   12   12    -
"    Power                24     -   12   12    -
"    Audio-Visual Aids  24       -   12   12    -
Short-term Consultants       12     -    -    6    6
Technical
Education Board  Examination Reform            12      -    6    6    -
Directorate of    Industrial Attachment         12      6    6    -    -
Technical         Inopectorate                 12      -   12    -    -
Education         Short-term Consultants       12      -    6    6    -
TOTAL                270    18  126  102   24    -



-42-                          ANNEX 6
Page 2
Fellowshis Protram
Man-Months
Institution   Area of Specialization         Total
and Type  _H/H  FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90
Technical        Curriculum Developt. (()        3      -    3-
Education      Examination )anagt. (1)          3      -    3          -       -
Board          General (R)                      6      -    6    -    -    -    -
Directorate      inspection (r)                   9     -    9
of Technical   Organization of Practical
Education         Experience Programs (I)      18      -   12    6    -    -    -
Technical
Teacbers       Teacher Training in:
TraininR          Subject Specialisms (1)    288       -   96   96   96    -    -
Colle2e
En-ineerinx     Postgraduate Training
Colleges          in Engineering (1)          234      -   30   42   54   54   54
M.A. in Engineering (1)       432      -  108  108  108  108    -
Polytechnics    Subject Updating (R)            42      -   12   20   10    -    -
Staff Development Seminar(L) 150       -   30   30   30   30   30
TOTAL ....,..............  1.185       -  309  30.  298  192   84
OF WHICE:   International (I)  .......     555
Regional (R)   ............    48
Local (L) .........,          582



-43-
ANNEX 7
Page I
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Schedule of Appointment of Additional Staff
Total
to be
Institution                Appointed  FY85   PY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90
Technical Education Board         7       4       3
Directorate, Technical Education
- PIU                          207 a/  177      30      -
- PIW (Inspectorate) bf         18       6       6      6           -          -
Technical Teacher Training
College cl                      47      27      20      -
Engineering Colleges b/         135      59      46     30       -      -       -
Polytechnics                    274     112    102      60-
A/  Includes 194 temporary technical and other personnel for a period of
18 months to assist in supervision of the rehabilitation program.
b/  Additional staff to be appointed and financed by GOB.
ci To be financed, by ODA.
Additional Staff Salaries to be Financed by IDA
1. Technical Education Board
Annual Salary
Numbers       including       Total
Title                  to be        65% Benefits    Staff-
Appointed       US$           Years
Manager (printing) cum
Proof Reader                      1            767            5
Machine Operator Curriculum       1            635            5
Press Mechanic                    1            370            5
Compositor                        2            370           10
Binder                            1            370            5
Machine Attendant                 1            209            5
Total:                     7



-44-
ANNEX 7
Page 2
2.  A.  Project Implementation. Unit
Annual Salary
Numbers       including       Total
Title                   to be         65% Benefits    Staff-
Appointed       U3$           Years
Equipment Officer                   1          1,450             5
Assist. Equipment Officer            1            875            5
Senior Accounts Officer             1            875             5
Estimator/Draftsman                 1             590            5
Steno Grapher                       1            488             S
Steno Typists                       3            442            15
Support Staff (Class III)          12            330            60
Support Staff (Class IV)           18            215            90
>Subtotal:                      38
2. B. Staff For 22 Sites
Annual Salary
Numbers       including       Total
Title                    to be        65% Benefits    Staff-
Appointed        Us$          Years
Site Engineers                     22            875           33
Sub Assistant Engineers            15            590         22.5
Work Assistants                    44            330            60
Support Staff (Class III)          22            330           33
Support Staff (Class IV)((Guards) 66             215           99
Subtotal:                   169
GRAND TOTAL 2.A + 2.B  .......  207



-45-
ANNEX 7
Page 3
3. Polytechnic Institutes
Annual Salary
Numbers       including       Total
Title                       to be        65% Benefits    Staff-
Appointed        US$          Years
Principals                            4           1,900           20
Vice Principals                        5           1,692          25
Chief Instructors                     27          1,470          135
Instructors                          52              905         260
Workshop Superintendants              26             905         130
Lecturers                             17             905          85
Junior Instructors                    90             554         450
Supporting Staff (Class III A IV)  53                293         265
Total: -74 



.40    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~a.
OX  In  .4.4   In      5.-S~~~~~~~~~n 
QIQ                                                                     at      a l          o g|  e    4M -
_____ ________________________________--------___- ____----
.4., c_.4                                         .                 0   _4  S -
-  -   - --  --    -  -  -   -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -           - - -  -
a    ____   I_________  __4__________      _  
-       - -       - -      -*   -  -  -   -   -  -  -  -   -               - - - - - - -             -   -   -.     - .. -   2        
9 j   .  S_  w   e 8 a  a  $  $     ,.a  - 2 a s _
>   g  o b a    w<o  e @ j     s s I    s          e @ f w    s a   
----- -- ---------------------------------------- -- ----- ---
if                                   ..                  O*2 ... .
upa-   'IO4                           SI.              . 
ca. i~                    .0 Z                                           .     00   ~
35.~~~aa  *0 5



_47_                                                                          ANNEX 8
Table 2
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary Account by Time
(TK '000)
Base Costs +
Price Cunt.
Base Costs                                   Foreisn txchanse      on Base      Tot.l Incl,
-------------................ -------------------------------- -----------  ----------------         Custs         t:ont.
85/86      86187       E7/88      88/s8      89/9Y    90/91    lotal          Z      Aeount      (USB '000)   (UbS '000)
1. IHVESTHENT COSTS
CIVILIORIKS                                23,443.1  203659.0   67,146.B    5,439.6           -        -   319'688.5      8.9   28,482.6       16v6;8,0      18,123.8
FURNITURE                                   2.302.5   10 2./9'  I0P32..9                             ,- 10411.2    44,8   10,S41.1             t.I53,7       1,269.1
PROFESSIONAL FEES                           3P196,9    3408565    1j,09.8            -        -        -     7992,2       0,0        0.0          373,7         411.1
FOREIGN EXPERTS                             4,711.7   32,982,1   26.699Y8    6,28i.3          -        *    70676,0    849Y  59,9iJ.9           3.3256        3,491.8
FOREHIN AND REGIONAL FELLOISHIPS                  -    6t471,4   6.170.7    6,144.6  21179, 2.117a9    23.0225    V4.9   21t859,1              1.142,5       1p199.6
LOCAL FELLOWSHIPS                                 -       729.3      729.3       12V.3    72Y.3   158.5      3,07,9      0,0        0.0          1672.9        171.1
EQUIPMENT                                  29,929,1  292,532.7  165.422.1   4i',Y15.9         -        -   5350b79,8    6/.0  358.813.7        250748.4     28.323.3
VEHICLES                                    8,784.7           -          -           -         -       -     8,784.    67,0    5t882.9           381.6         419.8
MOgKS                                       2)587,1    6.517.4    7,123.7            -        -        -    !v229.2   100,0   16,228.2            767,7        840.,4
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                        74,955.1  5564350.4  305375.1   66,511.8  2,847.2 2.276-.5 1.00)816.0   49.'  501,561.6             490714.1     54,454.0
11, RECURRENT COSTS
A. CONSUdIABLE TRAINING MATERIAL          109`10.9   120736-5   16t664.5   21,193.7 21,656.0         -    83r161.0    44.8  '3h226,6          4,885,1       5,043.6
8. SALARIES
TEACHING STAFF                         3,086.4    3507.1    3,b07.1    3#06,'.4 t.245.1 1,638.3         7.0Y90 5    0.0         0.0         878.4         922.3
_-      -    -- - -- -   -- - -- -   -- --- -   -- -- -   ---  -  .  __.._. ...  _..         .....  -- --   -- - -- -  -- - -- - -  -----------
Sub-Total SALARIES                        3.086.4    34507.1    3,507.1    3,086.4  2,24b.1 1,638.3    17P070,5         0.0         0.0          878.4        922.3
C, PRACTICAL A(TACHNENT COStS                    -    6t240.5    6,9`18.0    7.001.2  /,001.2         -    27.160.9     0.0         0.0        1.429.7       1,501.2
D. OPERATION AHD MAINTENANCE                 442.6      8851        885.1      885.1    885.1   442.6       4p425 ,    24,8    1.097.6           257.6        283.3
'otal RECURRENT COSTS                        14t440,0   23P169.2   2h914.8   32t166.5 31.787.4 2.080.Y   1318b18,8   29.1   38.324.2              7t150,b      7h750.5
,tal BASELINE COSTS                         8WJ95.0  579,119.6  343J,49.Y   V8P6/11.2 34644,7 4d 357,4 1,140.134.8    47.4  U39pb85.7            56P864.9      62t204.4
Phosical Continsencies                       8.549.6   55.475.4   31,133.7    8,705.6  2.858.8   240.D   106.963.2    46.6   49v896.9
Price Contingrncies                         11,167,4  134,676.6  110,803.7   40t960.6 20t375.5 2.470.4   32(P4536    38.0  121,771.7                   -             -
Ptal PROJECT COSTS                          109.112,0  769871.6  4?5,286.8  148,344.4 57t868.Y 7,06/.8 1567.551.6    4S-4  /11.561.4             56,864,Y      62.204.4
Taxes                                       176517.0  127.391.3   /Y.618.8   26.859.3  5.849.4    89.8   2b?t325.U        0.0         0.0              -     10,211,3
Foreign Exchanse                            48,520,2  338,016.7  226,041.0   77,268.6 18.482.9 3,232.D   711.561.4         0.0        0.0              -     28236.6
_ _ _ _-    - ----- ---- ---- ----- --- - ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ----  - - -  - - - - -  - - -  - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -



-48-
Table 3
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SimMary Account-by Protect Inatitutign
Base Costs                                     Total
65/86      86/97      87/88       P8/89     99/90    90/91         Tk      (USI '000)
A. ENGINEERINO COLLE1ES
_......... ._       -  
CHITTAGONG ENGINEERING COLLEBE                 191.8   24p520.7   21651.4    5,336#9        42#1    21.1      51076440    2P054,1
KNULNA ENGINEERINU COLLEGE                   1,016.6   29F510.8   244331.7    5W942,3       42#1    21.1      60,864.7    2,415.3
RAJHAHI ENGINEERING COLLE8E                    128.9   20,598.0   17,771t8    4,318.4       42.1    21.1      42.88093    1,701.6
DHAKA ENGINEERING COLLEOE                      873#1   32y362#3   26,224.6    6,336,7       42.1    21.1      65,H59.9    2,613.5
Sub-Total ENGINEERING COLLEGES                 2,210.4  106,991.9   89,979.5   210934#3    168#6    8443    221,368.9    8P784#5
B. POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTES
DINAJPUR POLYTECHNIC                        2,202.5   24,919.5   10,628.9    1,503,7        21,1    10.5      39t286#2    1,559.0
FARIDPUR POLYTECHNIC                        2,162.1   25,109.3   10,999.6    1P877.1        21.1    10.5      40,179.7    1,594.4
FENI POLYTECHNIC                            2U467.6   24,288.6   11166.7    1,740,7        21.1    10,5      410695o2    1,654.6
JESSORE POLYTECHNIC                         1,983.3   26,848,4   11628,?    2,129.1        21.1    10.5      42t621,3    1P671#3
KUSHTIA POLYTECHNIC                          2t162#1   26t561,4   11282,5    1,803,4       21.1    10.5      41,921.0    1,663,5
RAJSHAHI POLYTECHNIC                        2,391,2   32,286.3   13.894,1    2p567.8        21.1    1045      514171.0    2P030,6
DHAKA POLYTECHNIC                           2p451,6   32,369.4   14,566.?    2.59342        21.1    1045      52?012*5    2v064,0
NYMENSINOH POLYTECHNIC                      1,213.7   19,139.1    8,899,4    J0778.5        21.1    10.S      3.1i62.3    1,232.6
;HULNA POLYTECHNIC                          2,391.5   30,205.4   13,406.1    24313.8        21.1    10.5      48pa48.3    1,928.6
COMILLA POLYTECHNIC                          1t225.1   17,306.3    7,803.1   1IPJV.4        21.1    1045      27,763.6    Il01#.7
RANOPUR POLYTECHNIC                           635.6   15.33..7    7,323.7    1,769,0        21.1    10.5      25095,6        M?.9
PADNA POLYTECHNIC                              63,56   16#557,4    7?934.5    1,972.6       21.1    10.5      27,31.8   1tO/6.7
BOGRA POLYTECHNIC                             760.6   16036467    7,697,3    1,797.5        2141    10.5     26.651.8    1,057.6
BARISAL POLYTECVN1W                           6J356   15,407.9   7*359.8   1W781#0          21.1    10.5      25t215.1    1,000.6
SYLHET POLYTECHNIC                            635,6   16#160.2    7F735,?    1906.4         21.1    1O.S     26,489.8    11050,4
CHITTAGONG POLYTECJ4NIC                      2,2210   34t98J.l   15395,7    2#913,7        21,1    10*5      54,549.1   2,164.8
CHITTAGONG HILL TRACTS POLYTECHNIC          8P323.8    8,279,1    3,259.2         21.1      21,1    10.5      19P914,8      790.3
DIRECTORATE OF TECHNICAL EDUCATION         25,091.6   3.0U44*4   J3,606.7   346185,6 32.403.9 34043.4    167.J95.7    6,642.?
TECHNICAL TEACHER TRAINING COLLEGE         250731.6   49,208.5   36t945.0    80396#4  1,490,1 1.030.5    122,802.1    4,873.1
TECHNICAL EDUCATION BOARD                   1.860.9    3,353.0    1,836.6        213,8    213.8        -       7#478.2      296,8
Sub-Total POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTES              87#184,7  472,727.7  243.370,4   76.743,5' 34466.1 4t273.1    918076S,9   36o459,0
Total BASELINE COSTS                             89,395.0  579,79.6  333#34Y#9  9q8678,2 34#634,7 4,357,4  1.140,134,8   45,243.4
Phvsical Contingencies                         8,549.6   55,475.4   31J133,7    8,705,6  2,858.8   240.0    106P963*2    40244.6
Price Contingencies                           11,167.4  134,676.6  110,803.2   40.960.6 20,315#5 2,470.4    320,453.6   12,?16.4
Total PROJECT COSTS                             109.112.0  769,871.6  4754286,9  148,344.4 57,868,9 7,067.8  1.567.51,6   62s204.4
--------- - -. s==a 4c m cc= C z : X==V4aazrCssr   = a2zt 03==:Zma:cr  XsCC=v=zC= z=z=_==gzzz
TaXes                                         17s517#0  127,391,3   79,618.8   26,859,3  5,849,4    89.8    257,325.5   10,211.2
Foreign Exchange                              48,520.2  338,016,7  226#041,0   77t268#6 18,482,9 3,232.0    711,561,4   28r236.d
-- _ - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - - - -    ----------------------------------------_ _  _ . 



-'9-
AANN 91
BA! GLADIOGI
TECIOINBCAI gDUCATIOR PROJECT
FISCAL   g'A: I          FY 84          1 I      TYT           1        FY  86        I        FY07?          I       FY8as          I        FY 89                  PTY90         I        FY 91
CALEN2DAR      IYA01C83  1              CVO84          1       CY5            1       CY 86           I       CiB  I7a YBe                         I        CYS89          I       CY  9O         I  CY  O
-- --- I------------ I------- --- --                                                                       ----------I--------I ----
QIIABTFB;l 3 141 1 12 13 14 1 112 13 141 1 12 13 14 11 12 13 14 11  12 13 1 41 1 1 2 13 141  1 12 I1314 1 282
MONTH; IIB IONOIIJP8IAMJIJAB IBIIDIJOF818J4J'JARIOND IaFF8IAJ4JIJA  108NDlJFB.8A14JA3MI101D IJFNIAM.IJABIONDIJF JIM 11   IJABIONBIJF8 1AX8  IJASIONOIJFgIIAK.
I I I       I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I
A.   AFPBSINTMFJT  SF, srAPP/DBRATION OF SERVICE   I    I                     I    I    I    1 Coo01OOB01 000100 100 01 00010051020 DIOOOIOO0IOO0IO000 O0OIBoIBOBI0 0I 01080 IOI0o o IoOBIOY 0 I OOOIBOOIOOOiOOB 1000
2. SioEort   ofSu         hool    dceoao                      I     Ii                I    In                I0 co  00    I0        I    I      I    I    I    I       I 000000a I    I    I  I     I    I    I    I       I    I    I    I
I    I     I     I     I    I     I     1    I      I     I    I     I     I     I     I       I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I J     I
3. TCho--It.u    tArchirstysncoCllt                               I I   I  loooo  o    o go  looooi00 olDoogoooleo  Iooioloooologgogiolgolooolool0 ci ggOfloolooeolooIoegoloooo  oolooool
a.                                       ~~~I  I ol01 I                I     I     I II  I                I1 1   II  II       I        I   I I          I1 I 1I              1          I       II            1        1
b.    Agr.-..t     Signing                                    I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I       I     I     I1   1
2. Project coo                                                          I              oooolo looo loooooooloooloool0o0c00l0oOoloo00             oI      I           I           I  Ioc  Ioolo    ~ooolclolg   IooIoIoIoIoIo oI oI
B. CVI. AlRitB        rl   rifI                                    o lolol I    I        I    I    I    I       I    I    I    I        I     I       I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I                   I     I    I    I
il.     Slh -     tic     De.iI    I               I     I    I    1 0       I     I     I    I     I     I     I       I        I     I     I    I        I     I     I    I     I   I       I     I    I     I     I     I
c. Doesgnloo   Arv iel.      o..tC.   Eoi t               I    IOBIOBIOOOOIOIOOI                    BO0IOOOIOOBIOOl . O    1 500 00.100010I0     I I0I  I00081010  I00I    I    I    I                I     I    I    I    I       I    I     I
3.    BhcBidig   n     onstruto n Oo/oeto                         noocl                                                                  I 000000000000    0;0101010I DI OI OI OI    I    I    I      I     I    I    I    I       I    I    I
h.ABiddingocBginI  I                                                      l          I oo        I    I    I    I    I    I         I    I    I      I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I       I     I    I     I    I      I    I     I
o.  BC.ntr-BouPeroiodo   eoie                                          I    I    I oolooloo          onsoolooloooolooloooglool...olool                                   Io              I    I    fI          I    I    I       I    I    I
d.    D, .ct.   iabi kty    P ,i.dI                 I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I    I      I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I               .1 I   I           I     I    I     I     I     I    I
2.   FeoIP   oNT   DotBOOSAD PteNIrUE          POCn   EM        I    1000100D0100,100010001000100010001DOC IOIOIOI000010001000100010001                    I    I                       oo I I    I    I       I    I    I    I       I    I     I
a.   oohtetcelorefI    Ionoooo I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I    I                                            I    I    I       I    I    I    I    I        I       I    I I              I      I    I    I
P.Soelltio0ery       c                                 IIt adIyot  I.00 fo  I o        I    I1       1 I       I1 1 1           I     I1 1I             II1                   I I       I             I    I    I    I 8 1 1   I I   I
c.PBgjkig          ad   i   Deeopotc., R- Bio,to                                I olo1-0      oeooI   loI lIolIolIo Ioo I    I    I                  I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I       I    I    I
d.  Ci   oViL.otiog gd..          igDccooo                                      I    IloolooooI olIoloolIoIooIoo Ioo I    I                          I    I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I        I    I     I    I      I    I
3. Bidding g Pd roiotdgoIoml I    I    I    I 10000I8IOIOI0                                                                 IO    SOI OI BIOBI0oIoO I OI                      I      I l   I    I    I    I    I    I           I     I    I
f. Bid d    .iug   and                                              I a        I tool  I    I 0           I       Iloo  I     I    I     I     I     I    I    I    I       I    I    I    I    I         I    I    I    I       I    I     I
S. rco      e.dat i.. fd ,    IAI d                                       I                I    Iool   1.0  I    lo    I      I    I    I    I       I    I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I        I    I    I      I     I    I    I
b. Coestectio Asd.IIg-m,d.10aow  I    I    I                                                                      I    I    I    I                                                Iocooooooocoocooooooooooooo   I    I    I  I    I    I    I    I  I    I
i. Msnuf.t.righan               Siptpring  P..Iod             I    I         I    I II                          II    I    I    I .00lI              Io I0..01000.  I    I     I    .I lI.Il                   I    I    I    f       I     I
J. DIivry/Ietalat..1T.tiS                I    I    I    I    I    I    I            I    I         I    I     I     I     I           I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I
k..~IFE1 W    BOOKSt  Period         jKFOUEEBT                I    1019   OO100000015    BO00IBIB    BOB0OBOB    8000000c12000                                                                                                               
I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I         I   I     I     I     I     I    I           I   I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I       I     I     I     I    I
D CONSUMABE  lnioArLioondIyo~                                      Ioo I       ool         I    I     I     I     I    I                               I 10 00 0010101ot oi ooo(0 00 OO I  O[O:I OI OI OI    001OI   OI   QI   OI   OI    B000000000
PreieoOirs,("   L         nedet.        o3            I    I    I    I        conIc    I    I100  I    I    I    I    I    i              I        I     I    I    I    I       I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I    I        I
Pracu,- 01otgd i-yoc Perod                           I    I    I    I       I     cIol       I    I    I            I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I     I    I      I    I     I     8     I    I     I     I     I     I    I
a: SeleclttionofT             ecyF         B                     I         o i0 1 I    I    I    Ido         I I    I      I     I    I        I    I      I    I    I         I     I    I    I    I        I    I    I    I       I    I
bS ifn0gof  Angremeot g oI                                    I        I       I      o    I     I I    Icolc Igo       I    I      I    I    I    I       I    I    I       I    I    I    I    I    I         I    I    I    I       I    I
c.  lEcD.rt  Services PerBipiod            PeId          I                      I     I    I        I  I  0lo00lcologologto Iooooolooo boo I    I                           I     I    I    I wlool. I    I     I    I    I-   I       I    I
d1. Oellery/ip ooPer iod          loto                                    I     I     I    I     I     I     looooooooolooolo                   ooolooolo.*Io olo oool01..ooolooolo.oo        I    I            I    I     I    I 
P. PACTIUOEB    IACAL IT                                                 I    IM    I    1000 I0001000IO00100010I01O00100IOB0O 0100IOO OI0 I BO0   lOG 1000                   81IO0001000loFOIB      )OOl OOOS  00  80ISODOIOOOIDOS1000100O010
bg: Aremet wih   C.p.r.i               .n/D.                        I     I    lotoo.oologl                  I    I     I           I     I    I     I           I     I    I      I          I     I           I    Io    I    I      I
.   O l   aof                                   I                I     I     I          og   oololoooolo                               CoooololoolC olooolocolc0        oologo                   I00. 10010  I    I    I    I 0D,0.    w
c. PtOooe.ooot0eiiver   Period            IJA  I                                                                                                                           JI   I I      I    Ioooglco   Ioooclooloc  golgoloclooloolooAoooo   loncolgoloolgobobo
APPRAISAL ~             ~              ~                                      I    I     I     I     I                           I     I     I     I     I                            I     I     I     I    I                    
K. EGOr gIA L AOSBSOIKI                                                  I    I     IOIBIOIOIOIOIOI0IOIOIOIOIOISI0IOICIROO00O                                                                               I       I          I     I     I     I
BOARD   PRESE"ATIONI                                                                           I     I     I          I     I     I                I     I     I                 I    I     I                 I    I     I        
SrZT         A. E  (eEcSTcoIMATE)   yFoo                                        noocl            I    I     I     I     I    I     I     I     I     I    I     I                                                                  
CLSIG    AgoiooofrAgreeoeo                  12                                       Ioo        I                       I30I                                    I     I     I     I       90I                        I    I              



-50-
ANNEX 10
BANGLADESH
TECENICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Forecast of Ex-enditure and Dsbaurseieents
(US$ million)
Exp,entditure8            Di_eburaemenat a
IDA FY & Semester            Semester  Cumulative       Seneater  C%i1lative
1985
lot (Jul. 84-Dec. 84)
2nd (Jan. 85-Jun. 85)          1.38        1.38           0.50        0.50
1986
lst (Jul. 85-Dec. 85)          2.88        4.26           1.00        1.50
2nd (Jan. 86-Jun. 86)         14.54       18.80           2.88        4.38
1987
lot (Jul. 86-Dec. 86)         14.66       33.46           2.88        7.26
2nd (Jan. 87-Jun. 87)          9.54       43.00           4.68       11.94
1 988
1st (Jul. 87-Dec. 87)          9.55       52.55           5.76       17.70
2nd (Jan. 88-Jun. 88)          4.30       56.85           6.12       23.82
1989
lot (Jul. 88-Dec. 88)          2.73       59.58           4.32       28.14
2nd (Jan. 89-Jun. 89)          1.33       60.91           2.16       30.30
i990
lt (Jul. 89-Dec. 89)          0.89       61.80           1.44       31.74
2nd (Jan. 90-Jun. 90)          0.40       62.20           2.52       34.26
,1991
lst (Jul. 90-Dec. 90)                                     1.74       36.00
Closing Date:  December 31, 1990.



-51-                              ANNEX 11
Page   1
BA1NGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1. Thoughts on the Third Five-Year Plan 1985-90, Planning Commission,
Ministry of Finace and Planning, Dhaka, September 1983.
A-2. Thoughts about Perspective Plan, Planning Commission, Ministry of
.Finance and Planning, Dhaka, September 1983.
A-3. Second Five-Year Plan 1980-85, Planning Commission, Ministry of
Finance and Planning, Dhaka, 1980.
A-4. Education and Traning in Bangladesh, SIDA, A Sector Survey with
Special Emphasis on the Vocational Traning Sub-sector - A. Gorbam,
J. Lofstedt, The Institute of International Education at the
University of Stockholm, September 1982.
A-5. Policies, Planning and Administration of Technical and Vocational
Education in Bangladesh - S. Ahbed, I. Hussain, National Foundation
for Research on Human Resource Development (NFRHD), Dhaka, 1982.
A-6. Report of the Committee on Financial Administration and Manageiment
of Higher Education, Planning Commission, Dhaka, September 1980.
B. Reports and Studies Related to the Proiect
Government Documents
B-1. Proposal for Strengthening of Technical Education, Project Planning
Section, Directorate of Technical Education, Dhaka, June 1981.
B-2. Evaluation Report on Polytechnic Institutions, prepared by Committee
constituted by the Directorate of Technical Education, May 1983.
B-3. Proposed Statutes for Bangladesh Institutes of Technology
(Chittagong/Rhulna/Rajshahi), 1981.
B-4. Strengthening Student Assessment and Examinations System of the
Engineering Colleges/Polytechnic Institutes, Prof. L. Sirawardene
(UNESCO), Dhaka, September 1983.



-52-                              ANNEX 11
Page   2
B-5. Technical Teacher Training, Proposals for Strengthening of Technical
Education Scheme for Staff Development, Directorate of Technical
Education, September 1982.
B-6. Restructuring/reorganization of the Engineering Colleges, Proposal
for Removal/reducing Present Constraints, Prof. L. Sirawardene
(UNESCO), Dhaka, September 1983.
B-7. Project Proformas:
(a) Revised Scheme for Rajhahbi Engineering College;
(b) Revised Scheme for Chittagong Engineering College;
(c) Dhaka Engineering College (Joydebpur);
(d) COmpletion of Incomplete Works of Four Polytechnics (Dhaka, Khulns,
Mymensingh and Conilla);
(e) Completion of Incomplete Works and expansion of 6 Technical
Institutes into Polytechnic Institutes; and
(f) Completion of Incomplete Works for Sweden Bangladesh Polytechnic
Institute (Kaptai).
B-8. Proposal for Reorganizing and Strengthening the Directorate of
Technical Education, Planning Section of the DTE, Dhaka, June 1981.
B-9. Proposal for Creating a Facilities Department under the Ministry of
Education, Dhaka, September 1983.
B-10. Report of the Committee Appointed to Study and Make Recommendations
on the Examinations system for the Award of Diploma-In-Engineering,
May 1983.
B-11. ACT Establishing the Technical Education Board (Allocation of
Functions), 1977.
B-12. Regularizing the Academic Activities of Polytechnic Institutes,
Cabinet Brief, Dhaka, March 1983.
World Bank Documents
B-13. Education Sector Memorandum, August 1980.
B-14. Bangladesh: First Education Project, Credit 407-BD, Project
Completion Report, December 1981.
C. Selected Working Papers
C-1. Complete Set of Workin3 Papers - April 1984.



-53-
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Imrplernentatilon Orgonizatlon
UNIVERSITY       MINISTRY OF        MINISIRV OF        MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
GRANTS           INDUSTRIES        FINANCE &
COMMISSION                            PLANNING           JOINT SECRETARY (DEV)       WORLD BANK/          UNDP/                                ILO/
uN_RSITIES  CORPO_ATONS    _ AN COWP--I-.  F'ROJECTCOORDINATOR              IDA       |     (UNESCO)             ODA                IPO
UNIVE RSI TIES  CORF'ORAIIONS       FLtAN COMM
ENTERPRIZES        ERD
FACILITIESDEPARTMENT                                 eCIRATE OF TECHNCA[ E UA  NTEO-NICA. EDUATION BOARD
CHIEF ENGINEER                                            DIRECTOR-GENERAL                                               CHAIRMAI
,ROJECT DIRECtOR
PROJECT IkMPLEMENTATION UNIT       ADMNISTRAIION             PLANNING & DEVELOFPENT         PROGRAiM INS%ECTION
DlRECTOR                     D RE CTOR                      DIRECTOR                     DIRECTW
ENGINEERING              ICNCIAHR             |        |       FXYTCHNIC
| COLLUGES      |              TQAININGGCOLEGEL
woid EBonk-25729



1BRD 17776
n9                             90                                                E92'                         DECEMBER 1983
.} >.                                                         ~~~~~BANIGL ADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
AA. POLYTECHNIC INST ITUTFS        OB. ENGINEERING COLLEGES
j/1 /   (   \   \|   t  fio GorwhoA I Sylhet                     61 Dhaka(Joydebpurl
1 /    1   1   \   *          A 2 Rangpur                        B? Khulna
A S Bogra                          83 Chittagong
-26'                                       N.                                     A   Rajhahi                         84 Raishahi                         2V-
A5 Chittagong                  Oc. OTHERS
AS Kaptai                          C2 Technical Teacher Training College
11  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~l  aiyrC2 Technical Education Board
AS Dnraipur                        C3 Directorate of Technical Education
Ag Ccmilla
1. Awh-                                  j         \                            AIC B arisal
D4aldurtir Ke,,ho,..  A                  \      I                   Al 2    Feni                      PRIMARY    ROADS
AI 3 {    \   i   Al3Jessore     RAILWAYS
A \  \   ,.   At4 K ush tia      RIVERS
\  |   \  t   .   A15 Khulna  __     DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
A17 Iynengsingh                  IN TERNATIONAL BOUNDARIEE
-25'                                         Jt            9                                                            Chhatak               ^          25+_
0    )           ogin            A'Tra           "                               SYLHET
<0,              i                           dan..      VopalpuNl-.
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i- Asud,                                  Kihrgn              Habigni
)            Q~~EGANJ                           S       I
I   d ~        ~         /         
24'                                 16                   xI8_ fi , Joydebpur <_*2'
}        <        ,~~                 ~         ~~ us                     ar: 'a niat'              N   D  I A
Iaridpr
A71' 
J739  sote  <   ( <   *>    t \i                                                    2            >2'i
)7  ->A5C                       ,       . 'A L.fkLi                / jt KHAL      %                         il
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~21
h.Ina~~~~~~~~~~~~I
* ~      ~        i *-.-               '1)<                                                          '      \&t-u m
O         2      J     50           '.5NEtEES                                          A
s                \    C~~~~~~~hittagong   C I 
.;I Nw \ \ f  ! D I'A                                                              I
21'                          ,       I5 MILES
o               50              100 KILOAAETERS                               A
SRI LANKA                                                                                                               92'91
-  ,,., ,.X\,,,,,^,,,,,e, ; ' S I J \ t ., y22~~~~~~~~~~~~~91



