Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3813-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 33.9 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGIADESH
FOR A
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
May 3, 1984
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The external value of the Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation
to a basket of reference currencies, with the US dollar serving as inter-
vention currency.  On February 23, 1984, the official exchange rate was set
at Tk 25.17 buying and Tk 25.23 selling per US dollar. Unless noted other-
wise, the rates shown below have been used throughout this report:
Tk 1            US$0.04
Tk 25.2         US$1.00
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BMET     -   Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training,
Ministry of Manpower
BUET     -   Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology
DTE      -   Directorate of Technical Education
ILO/
EQUIPRO -   Equipment Procurement Division of ILO
ODA      -   Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom)
PIU      -   Project Implementation Unit
TEB      -   Technical Education Board
TTC      -   Technical Training Center
TTTC     -   Technical Teachers Training College
UNDP     -   United Nations Development Programme
VTI      -   Vocational Training Institute
VTTI     -   Vocational Teachers Training Institute
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
SCHOOL YEAR
Grades 1-10
January-December
Grades 11 and above
July-June



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
Credit and Proiect Summry
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Amount:          SDR 33.9 million (US$36.0 million equivalent).
Terms:           Standard
Project:         The project would support the Government's policy of develop-
ing an adequate supply of well trained technical manpower to
meet the needs of the public and private sectors. Its main
objectives would be to: (a) improve the quality of training
at the engineering colleges and polytechnics through
(i) teacher training, curriculum development, and a Practical
Attachment Program, which would emphasize practical skills
training, for students and teacher trainees, (ii) equipment
modernization and improvements in maintenance, and
(iii) physical rehabilitation of academic, hostel and
workshop facilities; and (b) improve the management of the
technical education program through (i) establishment of a
Program Inspection Wing in the Directorate of Technical
Education to oversee curriculum development, monitor the
adequacy of facilities, equipment and training materials and
liaise witb industry and other agencies to promote the
Practical Attachment Program, (ii) support of procedural and
institutional reform in the polytechnics and engineering
colleges, and (iii) support of examination reform.
Risks:           There is one significant risk associated with the project.
The introduction of a Practical Attachment Program as an
integral part of the new curriculum for students of the
colleges and polytechnics and teacher trainees at the
Technical Teachers Training College would be difficult to
organize, and its success would depend, to a large degree, on
the attitudes of managers at the enterprise and field level
who would supervise the students. A reluctance to include
training as part of their normal duties could endanger the
program. This risk should be minimized by the Government
providing funds to finance honoraria for the
industrial/practical tutors in the corporations and
departments.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: /a                                   Local       Foreign    Total
_ _ US$ million_____
Teacher Training                    1.6          3.1        4.7
Curriculum Development              2.8          2.1         4.9
Equipment Modernization            6.4          13.1        19.5
Physical Rehabilitation           12.0           1.4       13.4
Strengthening DTE                  0.9           1.4        2,3
Restructuring ColLeges              -           0.1         O.i.
Examination Reform                 0.1          0.2         0v3
Total Base Costs              23.8         21.4        45c2
Contingencies
Physical                       2.3          2.0         423
Price                          7.9          4.8        12,7
Total Project Costs           34.0         28.2        62,2
/a  Includes taxes of US$10.2 million equivalent of which
83% is for imported equipmnent.
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                                18.2          17.8       36.0
UNDP                                0.3           5.9        6,2
ODA                                  0.2          4.5        4.7
Government                         15.3            -        15.3
Total                          34.0         28.2        62.2
Estimated
Disbursement:   IDA FY           FY85  FY86   FY87   FY88   FY89   FY90   FY91
Annual          0.5   3.9    7.5    11.9    6.6    3.9   17
Cumulative      0.5   4.4   11.9    23.8   30.4   34.3   36.0
Economic Rate
of Return:      Not applicable
Apraisal         BANGLADESH:  Technical Education Project,
Report:         Report No. 4852-BD,  dated April 25, 1984.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 33.9 mil-
lion (the equivalent of US$36.0 million) on standard IDA terms to help
finance a Technical Education Project. Parallel financing in the form of a
grant would be provided by the UNDP for about US$6.2 million equivalent, and
by the United Kingdom for about US$4.7 million equivalent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh: Economic Trends and
Development Administration," (Report No. 4822-BD, dated February 27, 1984)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      Bangladesh, which became independent in 1972 under very difficult
circumstances, is a country with very high population density and widespread
poverty (annual income per head averages about US$140 at present). The
economy, dominated by agriculture, remains acutely vulnerable to disruption
by both natural and external factors. Considerable progress has been made in
increasing the availability of irrigation and other inputs, but foodgrain
production remains heavily dependent on weather conditions and falls short of
total needs. The uncertainties of foodgrain availability complicate fiscal
management due to the need to manage public foodgrain stocks and often impose
an additional strain on the balance of payments.
4.      The economy is also characterized by very low savings, reflecting the
low level of incomes, and by a very large structural external payments gap.
Domestic savings account for only a small fraction of investment (which has
averaged around 16% of GDP in recent years). Export earnings cover less than
30% of the import bill, and over 60% of merchandise exports are accounted for
by raw jute and jute goods. The resource gap of around 15% of GDP is
financed by workers' remittances, which have risen rapidly to over 5% of GDP
in recent years, and by foreign assistance of around 10% of GDP per year.
1/  Parts I and II of the report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the BWDB Small Schemes Project (Report
No. P-3770-BD) dated April 12, 1984.



-2-
The capacity for imports can be sharply affected by a combination of factors
which are beyond the control of the Government and whose disruptive effect on
the economy is amplified by the heavy dependence of the Government's revenue
base on import duties and sales taxes (together accounting for 60% of tax
revenues).
5.      In spite of these problems, the late 1970s were a period of political
stability and economic consolidation and provided an opportunity to plan for
longer-term development.  GDP growth of close to 6% p.a. from FY75 to FY80
was accompanied by rising public investment, financed by a substantial real
increase in aid disbursements. A combination of adverse domestic and exter-
nal events during FY81 and FY82 disrupted the momentum of development. The
corrective actions taken in FY83 have, however, been reasonably successful in
stabilizing the short-term external and budgetary situation and, despite the
severe limits on available resources, there are prospects for renewed modest
economic growth.
Recent Economic-Developments
6.      From FY80 to FY82, a sharp decline in export prices of raw jute and
jute products and of major non-traditional exports, combined with rising
import prices (especially for petroleum) to cause a decline of over 30% in
Bangladesh's terms of trade. At the same time, external aid inflows, which
had risen steadily until FY80, declined in FY81; they recovered in FY82, but
only to 4% above FY79 flows in real terms. Prolonged drought adversely
affected the FY82 and FY83 crops. The shortfall in FY82 foodgrain production
(0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81 levels) led to high food prices and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to well below the
level considered sufficient for food security. Substantial commercial
foodgrain imports were required, imposing further strain on the balance of
payments, while reduced agricultural production and incomes depressed demand
and activity in other sectors.
7.      During FY81, the Government attempted to cope with the intensifying
external resource constraint by resorting to short-term commercial
borrowings, short-term deposits from and currency swaps with other central
banks, some run-down of reserves, and assistance from the IMF under an
Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement concluded in December 1980.
However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in July 1981, as the Government
incurred a large bank-financed budget deficit and credit ceilings agreed with
the IMF could not be met. In FY82 the Government sought to contain import
growth through a variety of measures, including a substantial depreciation of
the Taka by 22% against the US dollar.  Nevertheless, despite an increase in
workers' remittances, from $210 million in FY80 to over $400 million in FY82,
and further short-term borrowing, foreign exchange reserves declined to about
US$120 million (equivalent to about two weeks' imports) by the end of FY82.
8.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate also had a major
adverse impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government receipts
of local counterpart funds were reduced as a result of declining commodity



-3-
aid flows, as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes. These
problems were exacerbated by inadequate financial planning and by poor finan-
cial performance of public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and
delays in increasing sales prices. A budget deficit of Tk 5 billion (2.5% of
GNP) emerged in FY81, even though the Annual Development Program (ADP) was
cut back by 12% in the second half of FY81. Despite a similar cutback in the
FY82 ADP, recourse to substantial bank financing was avoided only because of
a run-down of public food stocks following poor harvests. Nevertheless, a
sharp rise in foodgrain prices in mid-FY82, combined with the inflationary
pressures caused by exchange rate depreciation and a rapid expansion of
domestic liquidity in late FY81, resulted in a 15% rise in the consumer
prices during FY82.
9.      The Government introduced a wide range of austerity measures with its
FY83 budget (in July 1982), designed to adjust the economy to the serious
resource constraints. Development expenditure plans for FY83 were reduced by
nearly 20%, in line with expected resource availabilities, and the increase
in recurrent expenditures was limited to 14%, only slightly above the
forecast inflation level. The Government also introduced new tax measures
designed to yield about 0.5% of GDP in FY83. In addition, a number of sub-
stantial subsidy and pricing adjustments were made to reduce consumption,
protect investments and to improve the financial performance of public sector
enterprises and utilities. Taken together, the tax, pricing and subsidy
reduction measures amounted to an impressive 2.3% of GDP. Measures were also
taken to improve balance of payments management, including a further 11%
depreciation of the exchange rate during FY83, higher import duty rates,
financing the import of more commodities through the Wage Earners' Scheme,l/
abolition of selected export duties and improvements in export financing.
IMF assistance to Bangladesh was resumed under a Stand-by Arrangement in
March 1983 which covered the period until August 1983.
10.     While these measures were effective in helping to restore short-term
economic stability, their effect, combined with depressed private sector
demand following poor harvests during 1982, resulted in low GDP growth (2.4%)
in FY83, following a 1.5% decline in FY82. The budgetary situation in FY83
was satisfactory, due to resource mobilization efforts, the depreciation of
the Taka which largely offset the negative budgetary impact of reduced import
volumes, further foodgrain sales, and increased commodity aid disbursements.
The balance of payments was helped by a recovery in aid levels, better terms
of trade resulting from lower petroleum and food import prices, depressed
import volumes, and a further growth of remittances to around US$600 million.
Foreign exchange reserves increased to US$340 million, representing about six
weeks' import equivalent, by the end of FY83. Following good winter crops,
foodgrain production for FY83 reached a record 15.1 million tons and infla-
1/ Under the Wage Earners' Scheme (WES), foreign exchange earnings
remitted by Bangladeshi workers abroad are sold in auction to importers
requiring foreign exchange.



-4-
tionary pressures eased. While the short-termn outlook has improved, the
resource constraints remain severe, calling for a continuation of cautious
macro-economic policies and consistent efforts to strengthen the productive
sectors, and further resource mobilization.
11,     The FY84 budget reflects the need to consolidate the gains made last
year and to set the stage for a broadened domestic revenue mobilization
effort in the future. The total tax effort .is expected to increase from
about 8.3% of GDP in FY83 to 9.0% in FY84. Domestic taxes, which accounted
for 3.6% of GDP in FY83, will generate only 3.4% of GDP in FY84 (mainly due
to the rapid growth in the lightly taxed agricultural sector in FY84), but
new tax measures have been introduced whose fuLll revenue impact will be felt
only in FY85 and thereafter. Recurrent expenclitures will again be tightly
controlled, and the current budget surplus shouLd increase substantially.
The ADP is budgeted at over Tk 34.8 billion (5% higher in real terms thani
the actual FY83 ADP). Resources not generatecd by external aid inflows will
finaace 19.2% of the ADP:  this represents only 2.2% of GDP and highlights
the urgency of mobilizing more domestic resources for development financing.
A Core Program of 435 projects has been specified, accounting for 73% of the
ADP and providing ample room for adjusting expenditures to actual resource
availabilities.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
12.     The Second Five-Year Plan for FY81-85 accords highest priority to
(i) reducing population growth from the present rate 2.6% p.a.,
(ii) achieving foodgrain self-sufficiency, (iii) eliminating mass illiteracy,
and (iv) accelerating domestic energy development. IDA has assisted the
Government in preparing the Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP)
which aims at increasing foodgrain_production to 20 million tons.  Foodgrain
self-sufficiency could be achieved by the end of the decade with appropriate
producer incentives, resources to provide needed inputs to farmers, and an
expanded role for the private sector in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Given Bangladesh's high illiteracy rate
(74%), the Plan's emphasis on primary education is well founded, but the goal
of achieving universal primary education by 1985 is unattainable in view of
resource and managerial constraints. Prospects for achieving the objectives
of educational expansion and improved foodgrain availability would be
improved by success in reducing the populatioxl growth rate; this will require
more determined efforts than have been made thus far, especially with regard
to birth control efforts which have suffered from poor implementation and
have had only limited success. The Government: has recently taken steps to
coordinate its birth control activities and to strengthen training programs
for field staff. A medium-term implementation plan for the population sectcor
is currently being prepared with Bank assistance.
13.     There is an urgent need to develop the country's energy resources,
particularly natural gas, since imported petroleum at present pre-empts about
three quarters of merchandise export earnings. Ongoing and planned invest-
ments in the energy sector are designed to increase the production, distribu-



-5-
tion and utilization of natural gas as a substitute for imported fuel,
including studies aimed at determining the potential for future investments
in gas-based export industries. The recently approved Petroleum Exploration
Promotion Prcject will assist the Government to appraise more fully the
country-s gas reserves, determine the optimal pace of exploitation, and help
renew the interest of foreign oil companies to resume the search for oil.
Since the required investments are likely to be capital-intensive and lumpy,
they would need to be properly planned under a phased priority program. The
Government is now endeavoring (with ADB assistance) to formulate an
appropriate Esergy sector investment program. The implementation of
appropriate energy conservation measures and the setting of energy prices at
economically efficient levels will also be critical.
14.     There is an urgent need to address directly the growing problems of
rural Poverty and unemployment. Fifty percent of the rural population is
functionally landless, and the employment situation has deteriorated sig-
nificantly since the 1970s with only 70% of new entrants to the labor force
finding gainful employment. Increased foodgrain production alone will not
suffice to resolve the unemployment and income problems, in view of the large
projected growth of the work force. Measures must be taken simultaneously,
therefore, to develop other sectors, such as fisheries, livestock, forestry
and non-foodgrain crops, and to strengthen the industrial sector -- espe-
cially small-scale and cottage industries -- so that incomes generated in one
subsector will generate effective demand for the output of others.
15.     Studies of the industrial sector have highlighted the distorting
effects of existing trade and industrial policies on resource allocation in
the sector. An ongoing program of studies is expected to lead to a medium-
term program of actions to be implemented -- including modifications in the
existing tariff structure, domestic indirect taxation, investment incentives,
export policies, and the mechanisms for industrial promotion and planning.
The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced in 1982, provides for a
greater role of the private sector in economic development. Many of the key
elements of this policy are already being implemented, including the divest-
ment of major segments of the jute and textile industries to the private
sector.
16.     The Government has revised the Second Five-Year Plan in the light of
the sharp deterioration of the external environment, and its recent Annual
Development Programs (ADPs) have reflected more realistic assessments of
likely resource availability. A "core program" of projects amounting to
around 75% of the ADP has been identified to ensure that high-priority
activities are not disrupted by possible further adjustments to changing
circumstances. This approach has already helped project implementation
during FY83, but it should be recognized that the investment program is
extremely small in relation to the total needs of the economy. As external
assistance will continue to be constrained, there is an urgent need for a
sustained and intensive domestic resource mobilization effort, consistent
with the initiative taken in the FY83 budget to raise tax revenues, reduce
subsidies and improve the financial performance of public enterprises. In



-6-
the medium term, the tax base will have to be broadened to reduce its present
dependence on import duties, thereby improving the elasticity of the tax
system. In addition, private savings should be stimulated through
appropriate interest rate policies and improvements in the banking and credit
system.
17.     Realization of the Government's objectives will also require improve-
ments in develRnt  dministration.  There is a critical need to strengthen
the capacity for policy formulation and project implementation, streamline
administrative procedures, and improve decision making processes.
Recognizing that local government bodies can play an effective role in the
development effort, the Government has decided to decentralize a number of
planning and administrative functions to the up-graded Thana (Sub-District)
level. Accordingly, subdistrict administrations are being reorganized and
strengthened to enable them to take on most development activities at the
local level. The implementation and impact of this policy will need to be
closely monitored.
External Debt
18.     Since most of Bangladesh's borrowings have been on highly conces-
sional terms, servicing external medium- and long-term (M&LT) debts has not
been a major problem in the past, but will become a heavier burden in the
next few years as debts incurred in the first years after independence are
increasingly falling due for repayment. Total service payments on external
public M&LT debt are expected to rise from 6.8% of export earnings (goods and
services, including workers' remittances) in FY82 to 11.8% in FY84 and 13.7%
in FY86. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's debt servicing obligations
will remain modest over this period, rising slowly from 9.7% of the total in
FY83 to 10.9% in FY86. The Bank Group's share of total debt outstanding and
undisbursed is projected to increase from 30.4% in FY82 to 36.3% in FY86.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
195     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$154.41 million, made originally to Pakistan
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan (US$54.9 million) and credit
(US$37.45 million) to cover liabilities arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence were approved in 1974. As of
March 31, 1984, 74 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,453.59
million; of these, US$874.72 million have been for import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31,
1984. On June 18, 1976, Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and three
investments (shipbuilding, investment promotion and leather manufacturing)
have been approved.



-7-
20.     The focus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(22 of the projects approved as of March 31, 1984, and two fertilizer import
credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertilizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and credit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity and
distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of
existing industrial capacity. IDA is supporting increased production of
natural gas to substitute for imported fuels as well as exploration and
promotion of oil and gas to meet growing demand for commercial energy.
Assistance for developing telecommunications is designed to improve the
efficiency of a wide-range of economic and social activities.
21.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the eleven imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a jute industry rehabilitation project, a
textile industry rehabilitation project, several DFC and small-scale industry
projects and three IFC investments.
22.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.
23.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing
largely to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts,
employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays
were serious constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, over-
centralized bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA
and GOB have given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision
in order to identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assis-
tance both under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to
improve planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
24.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.



- 8
PART III - TECHNICAiL EDUCATION IN BANGLADESH
25.     Technical education is organized in three tiers:  degree, diploma and
certificate courses.  The degree program is designed to train engineers and
is of four years duration. Diploma courses train technicians and usually
last three years. Certificate courses are offered for skilled workers and
normally are of six months duration. Responsibility for the administration
of the svstem rests with three ministries and the University Grants
Comission. The Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET)
and the Bangladesh Agriculture University are the apex institutions of the
system. They are both autonomous, but opesrate urnder the jurisdiction of the
University Grants Comnission,  The Ministry of Education through its
Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) is responsible for the administra-
tion of four engineering colleges (degree level.),, two specialized colleges
(degree level) for textile and leather technolcgies, 17 polytechnics (diploma
level), and three monotechnics (diploma level) devoted to glass and ceramics,
survey, and graphic arts technologies.  Certificate programs are offered at
35 vocational training institutes ('VTIs) and five technical training centers
(TTCs).  Prior to September 1982, t1he VTIs were under the administrative
conitrol of DTE while TTCs were under the Ministry of Manpower's Bureau of
Manpower, Employment and Training (BMET). Both sets of institutions are now
managed by BMET, which also manages the Vocaticnal Teachers Training
Insititute. Seven additional TTCs are under construction, and both TTCs and
VTIs are to be gradually merged into a system cf vocational training centers.
The Ministry of Agriculture operates the Bangleadesh Agriculture College at
Dhaka, and 11 agriculture training institutes for the training of agriculture
extension technicians. The Ministries work closely with the Technical
Education Board (TEB) which is autonomous and has the power to grant or
withhold recognition to any educational institution offering courses in
technical education.  It awards diplomas and certificates, prescribes admis-
sion requirements and conducts examinations. It also has the power to
inspect any institution under its purview, and all syllabi require its
approval.
Problems and Issues in Technical Education
26.     Organization. Management and Administration.  The management of the
technical education system by DTE is weak. The Directorate is small and
operates in isolation from industry and the institutions it is supposed to
manage. There are no formal feedback mechanismas or advisory committees with
industry or teachers represented at either the national or institutional
level. DTE operations are also hampered by the lack of statistical
information. An efficieni: system of data collection relevant to student
capacity, admissions, and examination is required for management improvement.
Finally, the Directorate's management of the maintenance and repair of both
buildings and equipment is poor, largely because of the inadequate allocation
of resources and cumbersome procedures which inhibit principals from under-
taking repairs and maintenance as needed.



-9-
27.     The management of engineering colleges is a special problem.  The
lack of autonomy in finance, administration and curriculum has been a severe
handicap to the development of these institutions, in particular their
ability to attract and retain qualified teachers. Principals of the colleges
have little or no authority due to an organizational structure which links
them academically to the zonal universities and administratively to the DTE
and inhibits initiative and independent program development. The success of
BUET as an independent university has led to some movement for the estab-
lishment of the colleges as autonomous institutes of technology.
28.     Teacher Training.  In Bangladesh, the technical teacher training
program has been defunct since 1977. At the engineering colleges, there is
an acute shortage of teachers, with only about 66% of sanctioned posts
filled. Shortages are particularly acute at the assistant professor level.
In the polytechnics, the situation is relatively better with about 82% of the
sanctioned staff in position. Under the proposed project, the Government
would ensure that each technical education institution would employ addi-
tional staff in accordance with a schedule agreed to by IDA (Section 3.01(b)
and Schedule 4, of the draft Development Credit Agreement); the majority of
new staff would be appointed in FY85 and FY86.
29.     Staff at both the engineering colleges and polytechnics lack
appropriate training and experience. Most of the staff at the colleges have
had no teacher training or industrial experience. Of the polytechnic teach-
ing staff only 11% have degrees, while most of the others have diplomas.
Most have received little or no formal training in teaching methodology or
pedagogy. Some attempts to provide industrial experience have been made
through the organization of 4-6 weeks industry attachment programs. About
400 teachers participated in this program during 1976-79.
30.     Curricula  While the written curricula are fairly comprehensive for
each specific technology, they tend to be unrealistic in terms of demands
placed upon time available to the student, and provide little indication of
study objectives for particular topics. Each curriculum needs to be reviewed
in order to reduce the number of topics to be covered and to provide oppor-
tunity for a greater degree of selectivity. More emphasis should also be
placed on the acquisition of skills rather than factual knowledge. As with
the teachers, practical experience programs for students are essential to
enriching curricula, reducing classroom hours, and improving their perfor-
mance in the work place.
31.     Improvement of curriculum and teaching methods will depend on the
availability of adequate instructional materials. At present, only about 12%
of DTE's recurrent budget is allocated to materials. This translates to
between US$10 - US$20 (depending on the institution) per student per year for
consumable training material. The allocation for books is about US$980 per
institution or about 100 books per year. Comparable institutions in other
developing countries spend up to US$10,000 per year on books and other read-
ing materials. Library support in the polytechnics and colleges is minimal.



-10-
Most- textbooks are out of date and iare frequently unavailable to students due
to inadequately trained library stalff.  There is also a shortage of texts in
Bengali.
32.     ,sical Infrastructure.  The colLeges and polytechnics have an
adequate number of academic buildings and dormitories for the existing
enrollments. These, however, need general rencvation and a higher standard
of maintenanee.  Most of the equipment in the colleges and polytechnics was
purchased about 15 years ago, and is in need of partial replacement and/or
general repair.  An organized routine of preveLtive maintenance is lacking.
Due to the age of equipment8 many of the spare parts are scarce or
unobtainable. Many spares could be made in the polytechnics, but little
attempt has been made to do so.
33.     Examinations. Au analysis of examination results in the polytechnics
and enigineering colleges Eihows that a high wastage rate (repetition and
dropout) is directly linked to the method of student assessment. At the
polytechnic level, there is a wide variation in the interpretation and
administration of examination regulations. This leads to variable standards
and uneven coverage of the curriculum. Student:s in the first five semesters
are only allowed to progress to the next semesl:er when all subjects are
passed. At the colleges, examinations are too long and course work tends to
be examination oriented.
Government Policies and Prgams
34.     Under Bangladesh>s two previous development plans, priority was given
to vocational/technical education with an emphasis on increasing capacity and
programs for out-of-school youth and unemploye,d adults. A review of the
experience under both plans showed substantial enrollment increases in
engineering colleges, polytechnics and commercial and vocational training
institutions. However, these gains were offset by: (a) an imbalance between
the demand for skilled labor and the type of training provided by the educa-
tion system; (b) the development of negative attitudes to manual work by
students; and (c) a moribund system of teacher training. The Technical
Teachers Training College (TTTC) located at Tejgaon was converted into the
Dhaka Engineering College largely in response to demand from diploma holders
(polytechnic graduates) for access to degree programs. This policy decision
justified in terms of manpower requirements and political necessity, nonet.he-
less seriouGly affected technical teacher training. Under the Second Five
Year Plan (SFiYP)  an overhaul of the teclnical education subsector is one of
four majorn op-roties in the education sector.  The emphasis is on consolida-
tion rather than expansion of the system, the upgrading of teachers, the
reorientEktga  of curricula to be more in line with the needs of the country,
and the -             of second shiJEts to overcome the underutilization of
facilit~ x s - -meet increased manpower requirements. In the three years
since the S-7?p Wi-s launched, the Government has further emphasized the con-
solidats in o: tie technical education system.  The Government has been par-
ticularly aware that in the post-independence period priorities were targeted
on reos:!:Licn azid expansion of physical facilities to accommodate



-11-
increasing enrollments. These prior investments have now placed a heavy
burden of recurrent expenditures. The Government must now emphasize improve-
ments in management, quality, and utilization of existing facilities rather
than further expansion of the technical education system. The anticipated
output of trained engineers and technicians is estimated to be adequate to
meet the needs of Bangladesh's industrial sector, including both Government
and private sector requirements, and to offset expected outflows of trained
manpower to employment in the Middle East, a factor which was considered in
the demand analysis utilized in the design of the proposed project.  The
total number of polytechnic and engineering college graduates expected to
migrate to the Middle East is small as the bulk of demand from Bangladesh is
for less skilled manpower.
IDA Assistance to Technical Education
35.     IDA has assisted in the financing of four credits in the technical/
vocational education subsector. The first of these (Credit 407-BD), which
closed in 1980, assisted in: (a) completing the development of the
Bangladesh Agriculture University; (b) construction of five new polytechnics;
and (c) provided equipment for eight other polytechnics. The draft project
completion report made a number of recommendations. The major ones, waicL
are being addressed under the proposed project are: (a) to concentrate
future assistance on improving the quality of technical education; (b) to
strengthen the DTE and establish improved management and inspection
arrangements; (c) to establish a separate technical teachers training
program; (d) to establish on-going procedures for the conduct of regular
maintenance work on both buildings and equipment; and (e) to organize courses
of training for laboratory and workshop technicians. Two additional credits
(Credit 621-BD and Credit 1396-BD) were aimed at supporting the development
of technical agricultural manpower. The first of these (Credit 621-BD) was
closed in 1983 and a project completion report is under preparation. The
second (Credit 1396-BD) was declared effective on March 29, 1984. The fourth
credit (Credit 912-BD) is focussed at the vocational training level, and
supports the construction of five new TTCs and the establishment of the
National Council for Skill Development and Training. Project implementation
has been delayed primarily because of problems with land acquisition, con-
tract awards for civil works and clearance of equipment through the
Chittagong Port. These problems have now been largely resolved and the
project is expected to be completed in mid-1986.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.     The proposed project was prepared, at the request of the Government
of Bangladesh, by UNESCO which was funded through a grant from UNDP.  The
proposed project was appraised in October, 1983. A Staff Appraisal Report
(Report No. 4852-BD, dated April 25, 1984) is being distributed separately.
A timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of
the credit are listed in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington in



-121-
April 1984. The Government was represented by a delegation led by
Mr. M. Aminul Islam, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Education.
Project Objectives and Description
37.     The project wouLd support the Government's policy of developing an
adequate supply of well trained technical manpower to meet the needs of the
public and private sectors. Its main objectives would be to: (a) improve
the quality of training at the engineering colleges and polytechnics through
(i) teacher training, curriculum development, and a Practical Attachment
Program, which would emphasize practical skiLls training, (ii) equipment
modernization and improvements in maintenance, and (iii) physical rehabilita-
tion of academic and workshop facilities; and (b) improve the management of
the technical education program through (i) establishment of a Program
Inspection Wing in the I)irectorate of Technical Education to oversee cur-
riculum development, monIitor the adequacy of facilities, equipment and train-
ing materials and liaise with industry and other agencies to promote the
Practical Attachment Program (ii) support of procedural and institutional
reform in the polytechnics and engineering colleges, and (iii) support of
examination reform.
Detailed Features
38.     Teacher TraininR.  The major emphasis of the technical teacher train-
ing program would be to upgrade the subject matter capabilities of technical
teachers, and to provide practical experience and pedagogic training. For
polytechnic teachers, the thrust of the program would be to enhance methods
for practical subject teaching, lesson planning, management of teaching
resources, general teaching methods and specialist subject teaching methods.
Each teacher trainee would also be placed on practical experience attachment
in industry. The polytechnic teacher training program would be carried out
at the Technical Teachers Training College (TTTC) which has been re-
established at Tejgaon (Dhaka) (see paragraph 34). The TTTC would have a
teaching staff of 16 in relevant subject areas and a student capacity of 235.
The Government would ensure that: (a) all new teachers appointed by
Polytechnics after July 31, 1988, would have at least a diploma in Technical
Education; and (b) by January 1, 1986, all existing teachers who do not hold
a Diploma in Technical Education would enroll for the Diploma at TTTC (Sec-
tions 3.07 and 3.08 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  Engineering
college teacher training would be instiltuted through staff development in
subject upgrading at the BUET on local fellowships. Some teachers would be
selected for overseas, post graduate training.  Pedagogic training would be
carried out at TTTC, while practical competence would be enhanced by attach-
ments in industry.
3!3.    The project would support technical teacher training by financing
books, vehicles, expert services, fellowships, and, on a declining basis,
salaries of additional staff, consumable training materials and practical
attachment allowances. The experl: services for all teacher training would be



-13-
concentrated at TTTC to train counterpart technical teacher trainers, assist
in the planning, organization and management of TTTC as it is re-established,
and develop the system for teacher training. In addition, they would be
available to provide expertise to the colleges and polytechnics in curriculum
reform, in designing practical teaching programs, and in developing short
course programs for in-service teachers.
40.     Curriculum Development.  The objective of curriculum development
activities would be to improve the practical aspects of courses, develop a
more objective curricula related to advances in technology and the future
needs of industry, commerce and government. The TEB would develop new cur-
ricula for all diploma courses at the polytechnics.  These curricula would be
established after surveys and consultation with industry. The TEB, in col-
laboration with teachers and other experts, would also develop a new cur-
riculum for the Diploma in Technical Education for the TTTC. At the
engineering colleges, curricula would be reviewed and revised in collabora-
tion with BUET and the zonal universities. The review and revision process
would be assisted by expert services working with the TEB..
41.     As an obligatory and integral part of improved curricula, a program
of two-month practical experience attachments would be organized for
engineering college and polytechnic students, and polytechnic teacher
trainees. The total annual demand for training attachments would be about
6,800. About 4,500 places have been identified in public sector
corporations, departments, and the private sector. As the program would be
carried out twice a year, there would be no shortages of places for students
in the program. The Government would, through the TEB, by July 31, 1987,
make practical attachments a requirement for candidates for Diplomas in
Engineering and Technical Education (Section 3.09 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The program would become mandatory for students enrolling
at the beginning of their diploma or degree course in the 1984-85 academic
year.
42.     The attachment program would be managed for the most part by the
training institutions. For each college and polytechnic, advisory committees
of public and private sector managers would be constituted locally under the
chairmanship of the principal, and a full-time staff member would be assigned
in each institution to monitor the program as well as counsel students in
academic matters. The Government would ensure that each polytechnic and
college establish such a committee to assist in organizing the program (Sec-
tion 3.10 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). At the national level,
the Program Inspection Wing (Inspectorate) of the DTE (see paragraph 47)
would develop and monitor the program to ensure adequate access for each
institution to practical experience facilities and to undertake liaison with
the headquarters of corporations and departments located in Dhaka. The
issuance of a Government order formally establishing the practical attachment
program would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(e) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). The project would support the estab-
lishment and operation of the program by financing expert services,
fellowships, and on a declining basis, practical experience allowances.



43.     An increase in the provision of books and other reading materials is
essential to upgrading curriculum standards. Books would be supplied to the
TEB, colleges and polytechnics.  Multicopies of books for student use in the
polytechnics would be in Bengali while reference books and selected volumes
for teacher use would be in English. At the engineering colleges and the
TTTC all books would be provided in English.
44.     An increase from present allocations of consumable materials is
necessary to enable greater utilization of equipment, increased practical
orientation of courses, and more ieffective teaching programs. However, a
sudden increase from current levels would cre.ate a significant strain on the
recurrent budget.  The Government would ensure that annual budgetary alloca-
tions for consumable materials would be made at: levels satisfactory to IDA
and would continue to support the annual levels of provision per student
finally reached during implementation after project completion.  (Section
3.11(a) and (b) and Schedule 1, Annex, 'Part P, of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The project would support curriculum development by financing
books, expert services, fellowships, and, ort a declining basis, consumable
training materials.
4'5,    Equipment Modernization,  Major areas of equipment, including tools
anid instruments, would need to be replaced or repaired in the fields of
civil, mechanical, electrical, and power engineering.  In order to avoid past
problems of equipment maintenance, the installation and maintenance of the
Workshop equipment would receive special attention.  Most of the equipment
would be procured by ILO/EQUIPRO who would be required to provide training to
st6aff oi. the Project Implementation Unit (PIt) (see paragraph 48) equipment
procurement, inventory control, and equipment installation. Workshop staff
of the colleges and polytechnics would also be trained locally at the VTTI in
equipment installation and maintenance. Senior instructors, instructors and
demonstrators would be trained at the TTTC in. equipment maintenance.
Finally, following a revision of existing rules, the principals of colleges
and polytechnics would be delegated more financial authority to enable them
to purclhase spares and replacemenlts locally. The Government would revise the
1978 financial rules not later than July 1, 1985 to raise the authorized
limits for expenditure for principals of technical education institutions to
facilitate maintenance and repair of equipment and facilities provided under
the project (Section 3.12 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The
signing of an agreement with ILO, satisfactory to IDA, setting forth the
arrangements for procurement, through EQUIPRO, of the equipment financed out
of the XDA credit would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).  The project would sup-
port equipment modernization by financing the purchase of new equipment for
all instin.tions, spares and replacements, expert services for equipment
: . X7 ia allation, fellowships and training of staff in main-
C Sli-lOe :ir epair.
46      Pbvsical Rehabilitation.  Workshops, academic facilities and student
hostels at the TTTC, colleges and polytechnics would be rehabilitated. Over
80% of 1-he investment would be for renovation/rehabilitation of existing



-15-
facilities. Some extensions/additional construction would be undertaken
particularly at the TTTC and the polytechnics. For the TTTC, existing
facilities would be renovated and extensions incorporated to meet the func-
tional requirements of a teacher training institution. Because the
organization/management of multiple rehabilitation contracts (as opposed to
new construction) is difficult, the project would support the strengthening
of the PIU (see paragraph 47). A Facilities Department has been created in
the Ministry of Education to manage the maintenance, repair and new construc-
tion programs for all educational institutions.  The Government would provide
adequate annual budgetary provisions to the Facilities Department to cover
the maintenance of technical education institutions (Section 3.13 of the
v          draft Development Credit Agreement).  The project would support the physical
rehabilitation program by financing construction and furniture at the TTTC,
colleges and polytechnics.
47.     StrenRtheninR the Directorate of Technical Education (DTE).  The DTE
would be strengthened through the establishment of a Program Inspection Wing
(Inspectorate) and strengthening of the existing PIU. The Inspectorate would
have four major functions. First, it would ensure that courses are conducted
in accordance with curricular requirements as laid down by the TEB, the
University Grants Commission, zonal universities and the Executive Board
established to oversee restructuring of the colleges (see paragraph 49).
The quality of inputs to curricular implementation, including teacher
performance, adequacy and maintenance of teaching facilities and equipment,
availability of books and consumable training materials would be monitored at
each institution. Second, the Inspectorate would provide advisory service to
the institutions with regard to proposals initiated from the DTE, and the
dissemination of good teaching methods and good practices observed in other
institutions. Third, it would serve to inform the DTE of any difficulties
being experienced locally by institutions with regard to equipment repair and
maintenance. Fourth, it would liaise with industry, commercial and govern-
ment departments in order to promote the practical experience attachment
program. The project would support the Inspectorate by financing equipment,
vehicles, expert services and fellowships.
48.     The existing PIU would also be strengthened, and be responsible for
the implementation of the civil works aspects of the project and coordination
with ILO/EQUIPRO in the procurement and installation of equipment. On-site
supervision of the civil works would be carried out with the assistance of
technical personnel of the Facilities Department. The project would finance
on a declining basis, the cost of additional staff salaries and the rent of
an office for the PIU, and the costs of vehicles and office equipment.
49.     Restructuring/Reorganization of Engineering Colleges.  The management
and administration of the engineering colleges present a unique set of
problems (see paragraph 27).  To overcome this, the project would provide
assistance to an Executive Board which has been established by the Government
to manage the four engineering colleges. The Board is chaired by the
Minister of Education. Membership includes other government officials from
the Ministry, university vice chancellors and college principals. The



-16-
immediate functions of the Board would lbe to identify the problems facing the
colleges and take remedial measures to remove them.  The Board would, in the
first instance, remove procedural and bureaucratic barriers which delay the
appointment of teaching and technical sitaff. T'he Board would also arrange
with BUET for the release of some of its teaching and technical staff to work
at the colleges for specified periods. Within each college, the project
would support the establishment of finanice, and planning and development
committees. The finance committees wouLd be responsible for preparing the
annual budget of the colleges, and for all annual expenditures to be under-
taken by the colleges. The planning and development committees would be
responsible for all development schemes and projects at the colleges. They
would supervise activities in connection with construction, development and
maintenance work. Establishment of these two committees would constitute a
first step in the development of the colleges' capability to manage their own
affairs. Academic affairs would continue to be managed by the zonal
universities. The project would finance! expert services to assist in the
restructuring/reorganization process.
50.     Reform of the Examinations System.  At the polytechnics, the TEB
would have direct involvement in conducting examinations. The examination
schedule would be the same for all institutions.  The TEB would assess mark-
ing schemes, standards of examinations, and any inter-institute differences
would be remedied.  As the TEB would use external examiners for conducting
examinations instead of the polytechnics' teaching staff, it is expected that
the supervision and inspection of teaching programs and facilities of the
institutes could be monitored by the TEB as well as the DTE. At the
engineering college level, measures for the reform of the student assessment:
process would include changes in the weightage of marks between college
conducted examinations and those of the university, avoidance of repetition,,
preparation of detailed marking schemes, external checks of practical work,
better design of question papers, and inclusion of project work in the
assessment of the student and award of the degree. The Project would support
examination reform at the polytechnics and colleges by financing expert
services, fellowships, equipment, vehicles ancd on a declining basis, the
salaries of additional staff and consumable materials.
51.     Technical Assistance.  The technical assistance to be provided under
the proposed project would comprise 22.5 staff years of expatriate expert
services and 46.2 staff years for international, 4.0 staff years for
regional, and 48.5 staff years for local fellowship training. The UNDP and
ODA would finance the technical assistance component of the project. ODA
would finance all assistance required for the TTTC, while UNDP would finance
all other requirements. The qualifications and terms and conditions of
employment of all consultants would be acceptable to the Association (Section
3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Government would ensure
that counterpart staff would be appointed prior to the arrival of experts
employed to assist in carrying out the project (Section 3.14 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



-17-
Implementation and Management
52.     The Joint Secretary (Development) of the MOE has been designated
Project Coordinator. He would have the responsibility for overall project
coordination (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
He would: (a) coordinate all aid agency inputs (IDA, UNDP, UNESCO, ODA,
ILO/EQUIPRO) and be responsible on behalf of the Government for signing or
arranging to be signed, all agreements/contracts, etc.; and (b) coordinate
all Government inputs to the project, particularly the resources of the DTE,
the facilities department, TEB, zonal universities, Planning Commission,
External Resources Division, Ministry of Finance, corporations and other
government departments.  The Coordinator would be assisted by a Project
Director who would be responsible for the daily implementation of the
project. The Government has designated a Project Director and his appoint-
ment would be a condition of credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(f) and
3.06(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Project Coordinator
and Project Director would be assisted by a Chief Technical Adviser whose
primary function would be to assist in coordinating the activities of the
technical assistance experts financed by UNDP and ODA. The PIU would be
responsible for the implementation of the physical aspects of the project.
The project would be implemented over a period of about six years.
Project Cost
53.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$62.2 million equivalent
including US$10.2 million in taxes of which 83% is for imported equipment.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$28.2 million or about 45%
of estimated total project costs. Physical contingencies are estimated at
9% of the base costs. Estimated costs are based on price levels prevailing
in October 1983, adjusted to March 1984 prices. Price contingencies for
foreigrn exchange costs of civil works and goods have been estimated at 8% for
FY84 and 7% for FY85-90; and on salaries and services at 7% for FY84 and 6%
for FY85-90. The price contingencies for local costs on civil works and
goods have been estimated at 12% in FY84-86 and 11% in FY87-90. Price con-
tingencies on salaries and services are 10.5% for FY84, 10% for FY85-90.
Proposed Financing
54.     The proposed IDA credit of US$36.0 million equivalent would cover 69%
of total project costs net of taxes. UNDP would finance US$6.2 million
equivalent, and ODA would finance US$4.7 million equivalent. The Government
would finance the remaining net costs of US$5.1 million (10% of total net
project costs) and all duties and taxes.  Total external financing would
cover 90% of total project costs net of duties and taxes. The following are
conditions of credit effectiveness: (a) the UNDP Project Document has been
executed and delivered (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and (b) the ODA agreement has been executed and delivered (Sec-
tion 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



-18-
Procurement
55.     Separate contracts for civil works and furniture for each project
institution (US$19.6 million) would be awarded on the basis of local competi-
tive bidding (LCB) procedures which are acceptable to the Association and do
not exclude foreign bidders. Equipment and vehicles contracts (US$28.7
million) would be awarded as following: (a) equipment and vehicles (US$15.2
million) financed by IDA would be purchased on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines, with local
manufacturers receiving a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15% of
the C.I.F. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty, whichever
is lower; (b) equipment financed by ODA (US$1.5 million) would be purchased
according to their regulations; and (c) equipment financed by UNDP (US$3.4
million) would be on the basis of UN Guidelines (ICB). Books (US$0.9
million) would be purchased directly from publishers, distributors or book
jobbers on the basis of three competitive price quotations when feasible.
Consumable materials (US$5.3 million) would be procured through normal
conmercial channels. Fellowships aLnd technical assistance financed by ODA
and UNDP would be awarded in accordance with their guidelines. All
IDA-financed equipment and vehicle and contracts for furniture and civil
works over US$250,000 each would be subject to prior IDA review. Other
contracts would be subject to selective post-award review.



-19-
PROCUREMENT METHODS 1/
Total
Proiect Element              ICB      LCB      Other        NA             Cost
(US$ Million)
Civil Works                   -      20.1         -                        20.1
and Furniture                       (16.2)
Equipment & Vehicles        21.8                 6.9                       28.7
(15.2)              [4.91
Books                         -        -        0.8             -           0.8
(0.4) [0.41
Training & Technical          -        -         4.9            -           4.9
Assistance                                      [4.9]
Incremental Expenses          -        -          -           7.7           7.7
(4 .2) [0 .71
TOTAL                       21.8    20.1       12.6            7.7         62.2
IDA                  (15.2)  (16.2)       (0.4)         (4.2)       (36.0)
UNDP & ODA                               [10.21         [0.71       (10.9]
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
Figures in brackets are the respective amounts
financed by UNDP and ODA.
l/ Figures represent total cost including contingencies.
Disbursements
56.     The proposed credits would be disbursed over a period of about six
and a half years. The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed
against: (a) civil works (including professional fees) 80%; (b) equipment
and vehicles, 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 67% of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(c) furniture, 80%; (d) books, 100% of foreign expenditures, 67% of local
expenditures; (e) salaries of incremental staff, consumable training
materials and practical attachment allowance, FY85, 85%, FY86 75%, FY87, 60%,
FY88, 50%, FY89, 50%. Withdrawal applications would be supported by full
documentation, except for expenditures on civil works and furniture contracts
for US$10,000 or less, and salaries and other incremental recurrent expendi-
tures which would be reimbursed against statements of expenditure certified
by the Project Director.



-20-
Proiect Accounts and Audits
57.     The PIU would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Separate prDject accounts would be prepared
and maintained for payments on the basis of statement of expenditures. The
Government would: (a) prepare accounts and financial statements for each
fiscal year and have it audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
and (b) furnish to the Association certified copies of the audited accounts
and financial statements for each fiscal year, together with the Auditors
report as soon as available, but not lai:er than nine months after the end of
each fiscal year (Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Proiect Benefits
58.     The infusion into the colLeges and polytechnics of better trained
teachers, a more practical curriculum, adequate amounts of consumable train-
ing materials, books, equipment and rehabilitated functional workshops, would
lead to an output of better trained and motivated engineers and technicians.
The management improvement measures supported under the project, i.e., the
creation of an Inspectorate, training of workshop staff in maintenance and
repairs, delegation of more financial authority to principals, a reformed
examination system, and a new managemenle structure for the engineering
colleges, would result in a more effective use of scarce resources, and the
consolidation of a system that once bordered on being non-functional. The
longer term benefit of this investment is that Bangladesh's efforts in
development, both in the public and private sectors, will benefit from
properly trained engineers and techniciians.
Project Risks
59.     There is only one significant risk to the project.  The introduction
of Practical Attachment Program in the TTTC, colleges and polytechnics would
be difficult. Its success would depend to a large degree, on the attitudes
of managers at the enterprise and field levels where most of the attachments
would be undertaken. A reluctance on the part on these managers to include a
training function as a normal part of their cluties could endanger the
program. The risk would be minimized by the fact that the Government would
provide funds to finance honoraria for the industrial/practical tutors in the
corporations and departments.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d.) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.



-21-
61.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(a) approval of Project Proformas by the Government (Section 6.01(a) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement); l/ (b) signing of an agreement with ILO
for the procurement of equipment through EQUIPRO (Section 6.01(b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement); (c) execution of the UNDP Project
Document (Section 6.01(c) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); (d)
execution of the ODA Agreement (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement); (e) issuance of a Government order establishing the
Practical Attachment Program (Section 6.01(e) of the draft Development Credit
Agreement); and (f) appointment of the Project Director (Section 6.01(f) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
62.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
by
E. Stern
Washington, D.C.
May 3, 1984
1/ The Project Proforma are internal documents of the government, approval
of which is a prerequisite for the release of funds and the hiring of
staff.



-22-                                                            Annex I
Page 1
B   L 2  i
BANGLADESH_                - SOCIAL INDtCATORS OATA SHEET
dANGLADESH                                 WIFERENCE CROUPS (WEILGTED AERAGES)  /a
MOST                         (MOST ASCENT ESTIMATE) /b
b~      t          CENT                LAW INCOME               RIDDLE :NCOME
ARI  (TIOUBAAD SQ. Km)
CTMAL                                    144.0        544.u         L44.0
AGRICULTURAL                              95.2         97.0          97.5
GON  P    CAPITA (US$)                       40.0          60.0        140.0                 276.7                        1028.6
EIRCY ODNMSUKPTIO? PE CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)              ..         28.0          49.0                398.4                         792.c
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATUON,MID-YEAR  (THOUSANDS)   53491.0          68117.0       90660.0
URBAN POPULATION (9 OF TOTAL)              5.1           7.6         11.6                  21.;                         32.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILL)                                    156.1
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILL)                                      430.2
YEAR STATIONARY POP. REACHED                                    2145
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. lM.                           371.3         473.0         614.7                L61.7                         Z60.7
PER SQ. KgY. AGRI. LAND               561.9         702.5        908.3                 363.1                        i696.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (7)
0-14 YRS                              44.3          46.3         42.d                  36.6                          39.4
15-64 YRS                              52.5          51.1          54.6                 59.2                          57.2
65 AND ABOVE                            3.2           2.7           2.6                  4.2                           3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (2)
TOTAL                                    1.9          2.4           2.6                  1.9                           2.3
URBAN                                   3.b           6.3           6.5                  4.u                           3.9
CRUDE BIRrH DATE (PER TNOUS)              53.5         69.2          47.0                 29.3                          31.3
CRUDE DeATH RATE (PER TNOUS)              28.1         22.7          17.5                 10.9                           Y.6
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                    3.6          3.4           3.1                   2.0                          2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUS)                 ..        373.0        .607.0
USERS (7 OF MARRIED WOMEN)                ..           ..          12.0                 48.1                          46.6
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                           106.0         101.0          93.0                111.4                         525.2
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)           87.0          95.0          84.0                 98.1                        514.Z
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)               44.U          43.u         42.0                  56.7                          57.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE              9.0           9.0           7.0/c               13.9                          14.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) DEATH RATE               24.9         23.0          19.7                  52.2                          7.o
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)             37.3         4L.6          47.8                 59.6                          60.2
INFANT MORT. aATE (PER 7IOUS)           559.0         ;50.3         134.7                 96.s                          66.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (EPOP)
TOTAL                                                45.0          53.0/d               32.9                          37.1
UJRBAN                                   L. 53.0                   15.07                70.S                          54. 5
RURAL                                     ..         47.0          55.o7T               22.2                          26.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(% OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                                 6.0           5.O/e               18.1                          41.4
URBAN                                     ..           ..         40.07;                72.7                          47.3
RURAL                                     ,.           ..            ..                  4.7                          33.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                    ..        8430.0    10940.0                 3506.0                        7771.9
POP. PER NURSING PERSON                     ..       76810.0    24450.0                 4797.9                        2462.6
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                                     ..        7020.0/f   4500.0/c               1100.6                        1047.2
URBAN                                     ,,         9zo.07       630.07W              298.4                         651.1
RliA!.                                    .,            ..    23360.07W               5941.6                       2591.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED                 ,.             ..          ..                    ..                         27.0
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                     * *5.9B                    5.8
URBAN                                    ..            6.1fj         5.1
_ULAL                                     ..           5. 9S          .8 .3
AVERAGE .0. OF PERSONS/ROOM
TOTAL                                     ..           ..
URBAN                                     ..            ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECT. (Z OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                     ..            ..          0.5
JRBAN                                    ..            ..
RURAL                                     ..           ..



-23-                                                            Annex I
Page 2
T A B L 2 3A
BANGLADESH               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BANGLADESH                               REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES) /a
MOST                        (MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) /b
/b               1SRECENT  Lb LOW lNCOME                      KIDDLE IiICOAE
1960-~_     197OL   ESTIMATE-            ASIA & PACIFIC            ASIA & PACIF.C
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:   TOTAL                      47.0         5Z.0         62.0                 96.1                       lOl.Z
MALE                      66.0         68.0         76.0                107.8                       106.0
FEMALE                    26.0         34.0         47.0                 82.9                        97.5
SECONDARY: TOTAL                       8.0         19.0         15.0                 30.2                        44.9
MALE                      14.0         29.0         24.0                 37.3                         50.0
FEMALE                     1.0          o.0          6.0                 22.2                        44.6
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDARY)              1.0          0.8          14.3                 2.3                         18.5
ai                            PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                                 ..         45.0         44.0                 34.4                        32.7
SECONDARY                               ..         26.0         21.0                 18.4                        23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (Z)                 21.6         23.0/h       26.0/c               53.5                         72.9
COusuNroN
PASSENGER CARS/THdOUSAND POP              ..          0.4          0.4                  1.6                          9.7
RADIO RECEIVEKS/THOUSAND POP              ..          6.0          8.0                 96.d                        113.7
TV KECEIVERS/THOUSAND ?OP                 ..           ..          0.9                  9.9                         50.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION
PER THOUSANU POPULATION                  ..           ..           4.7                 16.4                         54.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE/CAPITA           ..           ..             ..                 3.b                          3.4
LADOR FtOCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUS)            19252.0      23611.0      32341.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                      15.2         16.6         17.7                 33.3                        33.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                 87.0         86.0         74.0                 69.0                        50.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                     3.0          3.0         11.0                 15.8                        19.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 36.0         34.7         35.7                 42.5                        3b.6
MALE                                  58.7         55.9         57.0                 54.-                        50.7
FEMALE                                11,4         11.9         13.0                 29.8                        26.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.3          1.4          1.3                  1.J                          1.1
INCOSE DISTRIBUTIION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5% OF HOUSEHOLDS              18.3/h          .         14.6/                16.5                        22.2
HIGHEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             44.57h       44.1/i       42 .27               43.5                        48.0
LOWEST 201 OF HOUSEHOLDS               6.97W        8.77W        6 .9i                6.9                         4.4
LOWEST 40% OF HOUSEHOLDS              17.97        19.67i       18.27                17.5                        15.5
POVERTY TARGET GROU1PS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..        139.0/c              133.9                       L94.5
RURAL                                   ..           ..        111.07W              Ill.o                       155.u
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY lNCOME
.v     ._,  _y {); PITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       178.0
RURAL                                   ..           ..           ..                   ..                       164.6d
ESTIMATED POP. 3ELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (X)
URBaN                                   ..           ..         86.0/c               43.8                        24.4
RURAL                                   ..           ..         86.077               51.7                        41.1
a                           . .  NOT AVAILABLE
NOT APPLICABLE
N O T E S
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availahility of data and is not -niform.
lb  Unless otherwise noted,  Data for 1960' refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970  oetween .949 and
1971; and data for "Most Recent Estimate" between 1979 and 1981.
/c  1977; Id 1976; /e 1975; /f 1972; /g 1973; /h 1963; /i 1967; /j 1974.
~lay 1983



Anniex I
Plage 3
fite    Alnheugt the dlat  ar  drll, Ems "Iu".Ignealy udge  tIn net  athrstale  ed   blIcie, It utould alsoh   oe   htta   a   e   ettratta
dearbeudere of egutde    dotrtens  ecdna cat  ieceet  uu    itree  bsenerEl
The reference grucy  are (I) the .... cuty grnup nt the aujc    uot   n   0       etr    ru   E     uetthge                                cg   nersu   h   ene   Re-P nc ho
se  I-t etury lancer  It  tItat .trnee  Oiltuper' gycup aher   PAddle Ircn-   -hard   krIc  utd hiddle  -Ia  " iuschtnsen                 . beraa     ..n atsgrt suite-rsItu-,
attIee. E  terfeec    rurdtthseugarepnpalettc  -elgtted arftth-tlc neo-  It  -nh lndEct-r-and  hc-n only eh-n eaertty of the  --usrte  do 
geesy  as daa tnt  hat ldtrstr.   Slie  theo-cerge: ofocnruraen   thr irdi--ur  dspnne  -n the u-ackatltay ut dateand. teeuite    stie - atb
eeereeed  I  relatag   reruge uP  ne ldflce ,tarE   nutc   Thes  soe-gee- ace null  usfu   in        . oopen   thel  ue- uP on   nlrra t -teeasau   abW esr   e
etateno  graces.
Tet-Teea  suEaeace-upcietng lend ace- end inlend  ucr;Ib,phIF,                                                 tidHF0raseue   she   t  etsetylst
1970 etd 19801 dan.tpp.ahn e  Nuring.  Person- PepuIlattu   dEnuded hy ssisbs  af frettotug
tue tropt , paaturss  racket end kinrten gardens nc to lie Tallue; 1990,              nuttIng fweunil9tuGnet
oatnlare  by  uesenonct 10 mthod as notd tan  lo I.  1,9199  hasis)';                           ct  h Iiano   ete,           oplit             I ar   esbissnnt  rPs _I-t etttd
1980, 1910, sod 1981 data.                                                                              hy at  .e.  ore.  phyalotar.  eubihsa    redtgpeinel.patly massed ia
Otutut CONtUMPIcOtN PEt CAPtIsA - A-oo  apparent ...... ptar at  -teiaitniclcneent permnro  tl                                                    lt-ed he a phystrias Ibet by s  .adi.aI
adeshretIs      i trituy) In kllngraee ut onleultln-pripnspo  dr    inte   e    of  rli teo-i1                                                  s      F.lte     rtils   upsaaa
1960, 1910, sod 1980 data                                                                                eln -ospLeel  include    t  ye.iyigeea  hyIri ,Isd rural
Tetal fplltaisrio    Mtd-'-eoth ..t..eadt) - A. or July 1: 1960, 1970, etd 1981                      eAiao.   s    nptlBd             - Tuti neater  et adeisei.n. so      di-oberce
dens,                                                                                                 les -o 1 EcIs di lrd~ hyyihe nebro  t beds.
Urban P-elsetan.(   ..eo.o  ot n.e.i  . .. sIn ni-urba  to  -ol pnyulrntni
diff-rat defineritin    n- utha   tree  act sElet n...p.rbility a  Lt.ceoO 0S919
arorg outer 1990, 1970, ard 1981 deta.                                                              fotdMisu   onnodlsen    er "nuertld  - rec,I                          ha   n   sa
nuate erftIos                                                                                       nrhl   orsso    g ofpu   nihul  As  hr   uigqete
pnruinlrr  o yea  200  - C-rrs-  p           PuIru    prjol     aehsoon18                        o  etIrIa ri.       orr t ludar soy a- say not be ltded is
eatpopu.lattan by sue ard se  and aLeir  ttho   m    eti                                       th, aeto    n   ttlttlprns
,tene     e)rinpretr   o   ent  0ceerere    ttreAe9pose    ioeosprtn-ttl Peba, so  rural ...eage Ioehr
isnel  areui.g  lid a sp-eenoy at birth i aree-ine aith refy5prn ~fp-.u.o  Per tor   in   l  ocher, -rd rtlorye    nsn  e
.PtapirsInes  lenel , red  ten..ls life n-,-oteny sshli g as 1t                                     doliog  , r-ptti-sty.  heel hogs eno  d. ...-P.rennstctsatd
yese.  The pcraosa   t  tr il ity rat  al-  trt-heeln-aanon  ie   ars
-nbi-sti-  of ...rtality and fteniiity trends Eec p-j-tni-n    rpr-as                              ofn  t-tI ~,buha, and rurI del lines  -rp-in-ip.
tretoar   eruotnoIrt  ta iray papu"ian   there i usegoth
alet  thebirth  rune is equal enth  death cI-, and site  theag                                 EDCATdION
attaeerinonatr.CtIathte onyuter.If  11fertility   ar                                             hejoad Enruilnont Ratina
deolin  snseepsseolrlnmn  re~ Ot                      ...pr.duorlorcet  , om                        plry I'holl -sti.el   o  feucle.-le... tost 1, eale set Sara
-abgneahn  ot   .. enteorPlusit-sit--tly.  The s-nnoyene   ase  aiat   t  h   rer ...ne-  as  nso-tagas of  -sPsotlee
istin   ef  he ppulaner e  thetre   Pl,  n  s..      tesrnh.lieo                            ritbtuJaa   o  di-  sro.-ngbsatp                     hstld-ost a    toe1
teet  styratetore:coeert  era   200.          h   -ofd.  I                                  rour  Po ihuteelructo   nelcespeee    fp  er
tepieiuoDniyndcneeqoea   ra  tour years of" appr.n.                                                                                                              pI~d I C Isr tea;
IIidper  opluee  perI  Tq.sr  asI in1e,e   blC  buasaIsOpaidegtes ,tr t                                             ,   br-te hObe    ffainu1 insheseteeode
stei ase, 9N, 9,        en . 98 t,dat.poha e- iyofi  nol 17. Ener  af-5;_Crs   adst-e hearses se
8/s pace)  andrested 15 yers ad ser) S  peranreee e  nid-eur                              ntlyor e  depeesstodu  ee-ndae yO-tfcdetde
peudtn    90    92   e   98   ae                                                                  ui-eoe    ss  - _petearn  an s2 erar    V- tat ... stdatre  toald t
peas pycisuer ftc1910-O,  198-11,  nd 190-81.                                            eseyIt                                           Ine  inns
PesltarOsebgaelerati--ces-geuaAret  ess.fure _hraeI  rsa   -trece   dla    bi   s  ed  n  eie)a
pepolsiensfee 150-ti  198010t   ad11-1                                                       aPt,a 5utrtlatrae  ID per  se  ser
perypsairl16, 191,  and  1991. dat.                                                        OhlttII1"Ph
pyoirtiscl1ti t9 o, 1910-0,  n  18  dara.7O                                                           sass  m %.Ietigls   hnegtpea                etd.abtr,bse    n
he    ael  eedrcn    eid  faseuelne  presse  age-set if7                                       ted s seeioseeo tre  ihessdI  ree.iahe)- g.41k  py..s ef e.e.eitr.ai
Ceetr.   y II  rasca  osasil...y d fv-pe  areruge   endthg in 1991, 1910  and                          hsdae   odnrlpt                   e   hoer   fppleelseue   s
tauto tirrtn-uenrcoc  , dtualI ehussidelh -. denul nbs of   erophesy.ts  ueInl Iffhr1 daafe.e..d                                     yss  a   ath.eearb                 t heses
pprogtir.,  C9V tetdrin1sdes lee   hssn  rupoeetel -  t  setned   fe                                                                                                     h..udre. tod
irart   lann-a         -sIp ete-nt  oftarid seen)-  Psosnee lo Iat- le                                   eer   ulnperasn    eeet10   rldsnfeedC   eeor
onntnlntyohel -heIgeg  119-ityers  uhop nsal nict1-ronrnd970 oee                                      In dnoontniPs od  n          IyIt bry rehiarestt  of  TOP  sees esa
all1 inere  enn  nsueen..up                                                                        hrapes   -lciu .un Inre -thnusod  Iopuoy-n    Ih..                        ofhearseags
F800Edl   !mn          F      iAi 91Crth .. 101          A.b                                               ornlut-pl.-t   cot nOlf.t dany  tneIll tn.... t y-e oaayr0  det Ins  aspbl spr edr
mien n    ;.It,rdor IonI    nCp a II 9b-1111  -i loden n  poeil   P    opito                          uhIn  Ino          d pelec lyt   eneiggneaInun.tuo sd   e
based on natisnal eeersgs produrer prire nelgtnsl- 19p91-hi, lV uli.1  end 1991...t 1
defa.                                                                                    lunf CIfti_ith9of-010  IJV.-i   r
da. Oralaba  pileseb pr.e.oseIl  prdnln imparts lees                            1                 pouitie  afrl  sgea    Deih- it  to narhti          s sI   ae      r   e
esen,a   - hne   is ane.hnspileew  oeaia   ed  seds                                             Csprel-lt9i- 97  sr  1991 ~detap.1.1)-S.                         h   '
ANriie    sdN       nteUpeTsig   ndian   i   isIbTtr 'asONseei qP-                                                              l   abrtrt   spaotae  trga   asefte
aseinsy ed helub  ansienie  cnni969neettal    I~c esprw s  body -pigtes                       fislg usde-enag p         f t-isi   l     frs   190   91a   91 date.
ashesod_teni.l   1961-81,.1910.std  1980 dare                                                       an  eeeiftity aetp  and gin  as pat f...eg  wEeta    hrfee1   90
neesontr it at toad ts  dy!.   . ne .ael  wetnC          sdfnoe    bo                               nsttrsa   aeleae)-rsl sale  an  fel                             h. rersInian o   se
eaqairs..eente  a  alswn e~itha esabishdby -td p- nide -fre atninong                                  athuk- p.rIds  are  tempre  as, eatsdi, eels, -adssl  ushe  facs a
pe.. d ess-  n - ef -hirh .g     ui  budb   nishl.  pertein.  Theme                                   191-91,ad196ds.    ht   rebsdenSO                             setie          ie
of aniler ..pryofr  s    Essaetr  h              ed   rpndb .. 2-in the                                law fst-ntee ra   er  rer-ed el swur..resIy   ti 
Tud A-Ideci  .nas       uraI. 1961-8.   19. 0 and 18  dt,                                            ern      h   rdn   hetin - heel         II psyieinuner1  an   88en  sott
darinas free anleela and paises in grass pee day-bl.; 1961-81,0 19701erg 1971
Chil  -es   -8   lue te  essh ed -..i.tdbFAb.. d   nsto   dheathaiI. pee  IhIsndInsrntg ateltsnee bsthinsas                                                    ....ked  -tSssne   byti  riber
-ti  t gesu  1 --k pace  cn rildeni  tI   g  gtaap- t- cuss densieping                               rye hen,  eAtle   di- peten olt, pww bsi     tol 1a9a6n,eA pa9em0 . Cd 19arndrs
enunites   ate  erinr  tenlIf  sabee 196h0  1970. en   98    ae.huebl
at btDh   1980,           I 19700t.t-    I  P.d,1981  ata.                                           7h5 id he 9in1sprtedna    nnisslesaat
Inan    saa...ba.es..asnd               .eeldesr to     tane neIr,," Iit"VIre "                          ha'lo,a"Iwrt  mas-           esi(t   e Iesisa -ura   adrar
p~iesa  age.il poe shashsed  Slne bchs.1 1960  l.180m   188il dara.                                   g9Asel97e penrf  Inuec  lee-   is r%-bt treess  Isest betas  ito a..  .t.s
Sutes  ef  sfs  arerI pareteat asulf ten)easI ,,,  urba.ai  rura 23S-                          naetna  twrqatPitpu   as  ne   e-adesusessi   a
.t.Iabir    r at  .ep . rIthral  tshas, and  ees   -ih  reserblaanes   ses e                          a-dedblA
Ofrs  suppl  (isr odt       reafe   tortr  estate usp ...sad   hat                                  lascatIi  9sthin  taetyin-ls tenet  (PI               rsele .shnsd  at 
elrasrs      F.acd wares 1dab a       197sf -dfree  psscd bethls,   petgi,endtonl saplslo- pk-srt                                - istme  oenf  isp see--tid-a  anesg  par sepIcs.      
sent seep  ells) as  eesrfage   afte rreprsispnneues    In.. en. perene  isebno Itsenary, Uhrln   i   esi    ra                                                           ua
archers at the bwesehwld An can hsne to apsndadtsHpenytP....istuute  pert ef
A-eass 5    dtest  D-iepea I-  litc.  ofb.,  1960anon -970ead ,981rhun,an
rurri - Donhrrof pcople  n tAl,ubn  end. rura ,    sI..ed  by II ret.rees-.M                                 t..  .....        p.i-.                    o    . ty1 l.O
so   rid   heolsto   and dipsl-lte  ortl  IItoo I.tre IAten, IIt                                                                    Tooneto  nd toud   Dar  Dinsi
hneewr he end reth e-..sdnrr by ater-barns  "ytI'llcrhrusllfpi                                                                      tono in eraly-isend   Ia)ettnn   Depae-
p ointsend etuila   1renaitina-.                                                                                                                        tapt199



-25-                                                             ANNEX 1
Page 4
BANGLADESH
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population:  91.55 million (January 1982)
GNP Per Capita: US$140 (1982)
Amount
(million US$              Average Annual Increase (Z)                 Share of GDP at Market Prices (Z)
in current prices)             (in constant prices)                             (in current Drices2
Indicator                      FY82             FY60-70   FY70-75   FY75-80   FY80-82           FY60    FY70    FY75    FY80    FY82
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /a            10,947               4.0       -0.6        5.5      3.5          100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Agriculture /a                      5,107               3.1      -1.3        3.3       2.4           59.9    56.9    62.5    53.4    46.7
Industry /a                         1,506              7.9       -3.2        6.4       3.8           7.7      9.6    11.3    12.7    13.8
Services /a                         4,334              4.9        3.3        8.1       4.9          30.1    30.0    26.2    34.0    39.6
Consumption                          11,373               4.4       -0.7        6.0       3.5          92.4    92.8    99.2    98.0   103.9
Gross domestic investment             1,506              10.9     -10.9         2.0     -6.5            6.9    11.3      8.1    16.7    13.8
Exports of goods & nfs                  841               0.8     -11.7         3.4       9.3          10.0     8.3      3.0      7.8      7.7
Imports of goods & nfs                2,774               8.8     -12.0        6.1       1.4            9.3    12.5    10.3    22.5    25.3
Gross national savings                 -111              26.5     -17.7       22.1    -38.8             0.9     6.1      1.0      4.0    -1.0
Amount
(million US$                     Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)
in current prices)                            (in current prices)
FY82                         FY73        FY75        FY80       FY82
MERCHANDISE TRADE
Merchandise exports                     627.0                         100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
Primary jb                            193.9                          40.4        31.5        29.6       30.9
Manufactures                          433.1                          59.6        68.5        70.4       69.1
Merchandise imports                   2,587.0                         100.0       100.0       100.0      100.0
Food                                  360.8                          44.1        42.2        30.2       13.9
Petroleum                             560.6                           3.2        11.1        16.2       21.7
Machinery & equipment                 676.1                          13.8        11.5        23.0       26.1
Other                                 989.5                         38.9        35.2         32.0      38.2
FY74     FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80      FY81     FY82
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73=100)
GDP Deflator                                         140.6    240.7    183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    252.7           267.3    295.9
Exchange rate (Tk/US$)                                 7.9661   8.8759  14.8521  15.4667  15.1215  15.2228  15.4777   16.3447  20.0400
Export price index                                   104.5    119.0    103.4    108.9    126.5    160.9    198.9           175.7    147.7
Import price index                                   144.9    187.8    180.2    178.2    168.7    208.9    234.9           263.9    261.5
Terms of trade index                                  72.1      63.4      57.4      61.1      75.0      77.0     84.7       66.6      56.5
As Z of GDP
(at current prices)
FY75     FY77      FY80        FY82
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                               5.4       9.5       10.5        11.6
Current expenditure                                           4.5       7.8        7.7         8.4
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                           +0.9      +1.7      + 2.8       + 3.2
Capital expenditure                                           3.1       9.5       13.3        12.4
Foreign financing                                             2.4       6.0        8.2         8.0
FY60-70       FY70-75       FY75-80      FY80-82
OTHER INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (Z)                                            4.2          -0.6             6.5         3.3
GNP per capita growth rate (%)                                 1.5          -3.0             4.0         0.9
not available
.   not applicable
/a At market prices.
/b Raw jute and tea.
ASADD
August 31, 1983



-26-
(Million U0$, in 6urrent pricss)
Actuul                                   ESt2m. Projected
ZX2l     7.    UZI         UZLJ    nl        F8       PY81    FY8     2nFY3       FY8F
Net exports of goods                                   -1,059     -903    --470    -859    -946  -1,650  -1,822  -1,960  -1,685   -1,790
xport  of goods                                         344      372      405       490     610       722      711      627      655       750
Imiorto of goods                                     -1,403  *.1,275    -875  -1,349  -1,556  -2,372  -2,533  -2,567  -2,340   -2,540
Not i2xports of services                                    21      - 7      -29     -32       -28        4       15      -70      -90      '102
Workers  res mittances                                      35       29       60      113      143      210      379      412      600       650
Ktz1aA5g                           ~~~~~~~~~~~-1.003  882  43Y1   78      -8    -1.436  -142   -1.618  -1.175   -1.242
Diroett private investment                                  .          .                         .       ..            ..       ..
MLT loans (not)                                           498       498      238      298      420      581      513      498      540       607
Grantsl   grAnt-like flows                                382       245      265      393      553      592      584      697      720       735
Other c4pital flows (not)                                  274       87       17      .39      -16      145      307      295      -57      -100
Chan2e in reserves (-   incrsese)                        -151        53      -81       25    -124       119       24      128      -28         -
InteriaU ifosal rc2 servea (end of period)                266      213       294      269      393      274      250      122      150       150
RocrFvem. as months of imports of next y22at              2,4     2.6       2.4      1,9      1.8      1.2      1.1      0.5      0.7       0.6
_~~~~~~~~~~~~ _ ==A.    11.7 =. .'Z                                           ___ __I           ZA.  .  . _ 
L.L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E   LU2  ga                                       a    M L
Official grants                                       382      245      265      393      553      592      584      697
Grose disbursements of MLT loans                      519      564      268      435      477      631      562      539
Cotcessional                                        458      533      244      401      456      600      541      467
Bilateral                                        343      390       144      262      213      273      255
IDA                                              113      128        86       88      153      152      170      158
Other multilateral                                  3       15       14       51       91      177       83
Non-concessional                                     60       31       24       35       20       30       21       72
Official export credits                            19        -        -        -        -        -        -        4
BRDD
Other multilateral                                 27       18        6        2        3       17        3       26
Private                                            15       13       18       32       17       13       19       42
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt outstanding & disbursed (end of period)  1,355   1,797   2,053   2,571   2,951   3,216   3,615   3,979
Official                                         1,233   1,689   1,940   2,436    2,808   3,067   3,491   3,835
IBRD                                              55       55        55       55       55       55       55       55
IDA                                              255      380      466      554       707      859   1,027   1,181
Ottier                                           923   1,254   1,419   1,827   2,047    2,154   2,379   2,599
Private                                             122      108      113      135      142      149      124      144
Undisbursed Debt                                    1,019      948   1,016    1,335   1,659   1,718   2,103   2,666
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                            31       88       59       69       95       94        92      87
Interest                                             10       22       28       32       38       43       42       47
Payments as Z of export earnings                        7.3    20.3    12.7    12.1    13.1    10.6    10.0    10.3
Payments as 1 of GNP                                    0.2      1.2      0.9      0.8      1.0      0.8       0.7      0.8
Average interest rate on new loans (5)
Official                                              2.0      1.6      1.5      1.3      1.3      1.2       1.6      1.8
Private                                               2.3      7.8      6.4      6.2      6.1      6.9    10.8       9.0
Average maturity of new loans (years)
Official                                             36.2    42.2    40.6    38.6    36.3    34.2    35.0    35.6
Private                                              15.3    11.3    11.0        9.5    14.8    19.3        7.6     11.5
BANK GRO2JP EXlfOSURE (I)
IBRD DOD/total DOD                                      4        3        2        2        1         1        1
IBRD disbursements/total gross disbursements            -        -        -        -        -        -        -
rBRD debt service/total debt service                    -        1        5        4        4        3        4
IDA DOD/total DOD                                      18       21       22       21       24       26        28
IDA disbursements/total gross disbursenments           21       22       32       20       32       24       32
IDA debt o-rvice/total debt service                     3        2        5        5        4        6        7
IBRLD/IDA Lending,
Dec. 1982 (mill. US$)
As S of Debt Outstanding
T.tE  ft Q' CTIMU                                          At Flud of  June 1982                                                    IBRD    IDA
Lrt--   t,e of debt outstanding (Z)                                             Outstanding & Disbursed                54.9  1,270.0
N.LUiL-, .iue within 5 years                                     16.9                   Undisbursed                               -   1,047.9
duo within 10 years                                  41.6                  Outstanding, inel. Undisbursed          54.9  2,317.9
]ntcr,ct s,tructure of debt outstanding (Z)
Ir.terart due within first year                                   1.7
:r                                                                                                                               ASADD
x                                                                                                                                August 31, 1983



-27-                              ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH /a
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
Amounts
Loan or                                                               (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                  US$ Million /b
Number      Year   Borrower                Purpose               Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
One loan and 31 credits fully disbursed                          54.90   924.18          -
487        1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II                -      20.00        0.62
527       1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer                   -      62.00         1.39
542        1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation                   -       27.00       9.36
605       1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation                  -      22.37        5.73
621        1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training    -           12.00        1.84
631       1976  Bangladesh  Rural Development                     -      16.00        5.70
632        1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank               -       25.00        3.54
725       1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation                     -      21.00       10.11
735       1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II             -        5.00       0.60
765       1978  Bangladesh  Jute                                  -      21.00       11.23
787       1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II                  -      25.00       11.25
825        1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II              -       7.00        2.51
828        1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research                -        6.00       0.68
864        1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control             -       19.00      11.61
890        1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries                -        6.00        3.18
912        1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training                  -       25.00      15.75
921        1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II    -           32.00      23.14
934        1979  Bangladesh  Greater Kbulna Power
Distribution                     -       28.00       14.31
941        1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply & Sewerage II -          22.00        4.28
955        1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                    -       25.00       19.26
964        1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                          -       10.00       7.52
990       1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                        -      37.00       20.71
1001        1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II           -      20.00       13.03
1023       1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                   -       29.00       22.38
1032        1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry Rehabilitation         -       20.00      13.12
1042       1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation                -      11.00        6.96
1054        1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary Education) -          40.00       30.56
1065/c     1980  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III              -      35.00       22.79
1091/c      1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development            -      85.00       12.54
10967H     1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport                  -      25.00       13.21
1117/c      1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II            -      50.00       27.55
11247Y     1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV               -      16.00        8.99
1140/c      1981  Bangladesh  Hand Tubewells                       -       18.00      11.99
11477c     1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit                   -      40.00       23.14
1184/c      1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II          -      27.00       23.54
1194Th     1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                     -     100.00        4.02
1204_/c     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer           -       15.00      13.62



-28-
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
A, Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (continued)
Amounts
Loan or                                                              (less cancellations)
Credit                                                                  US$ Million lb
Number     Year   Borrower                 E'urpose              Bank       IDA    Undisbursed
1205/c     1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry Rehabilitation  -           30.00       27,78
1215/c     1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II               -      27.00       22.96
12477J     1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Plort                      -      60.00       57.47
1254/c      1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal lower               -       92.00      88.01
1262/c     1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification                 -      40.00       36,.16
1287/c      1982  Bangladesh  Deep Tubewells II                    -      68.00       64.38
1300/c     1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program Xl                    -     110.00       34.99
1301/c     1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Pro ject
(Supplemental)                   -        6.00        4.66
1318/c     1983  Bangladesh  Business ManagemerLt
Education & Training             -        7.80        7.56
1321/c     1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III                -      35.00       34.59
13497c     1983  Bangladesh  Public Administration
(Training and Personnal
Management)                      -       12.00       11.23
1357/c     1983  Bangladesh  Energy Efficiency and
Refinery Rehabilitation          -       28.50       28.20
1384/c     1983  Bangladesh  Rural Development II                  -     100.00       98.76
1396/c     1983  Bangladesh  Agricultural Training II              -       8.10        8.09
1399/c /d  1983  Bangladesh  Sugar Rehabilitation and
Intensification                  -        20.00      19.58
1402/c /e  1983  Bangladesh  Petroleum Exploration Promotion  -            23.00      22.78
1440/c /d  1984  Bangladesh  Fifth Technical Assistance            -       25.00      25.33
1455/c If  1984  Bangladesh  Second Agricultural Research          -       24.50      24.90
Total                                                        54.90  2,645.45  1,049.19
of wvhich repaid                                            -         2.76      -
Total now outstanding                                       54.90  2,642.69
Amount sold                                                0.00       0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                              54.90  2,642.69
Total undisbursed                                                              1,049. 19
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
/b  The original principal of credits under replenishments I to 3 has been increased
by the amount of the translation adjustment as a result of the devaluation of
the United States dollar in 1972 and 1973.
/c  Credits funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment denominated in SDRs.  Amounts
of principal are calculated at the rate of exchange in effect at the time of
negotiations; amounts undisbursed are calculated. at the rate of exchange in
effect on larch 31, 1984, and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed credits
funded out of IDA's 6th Replenishment is calculated at the rate of exchange
in effect on the dates of disbursement.
/d  Became effective in April 1984.
/e  Not yet effective.
/f  Not yet signed.



-29-
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
/a
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal                                                                Amounts in US$ Million
Year            Obligor                Type of Business              Loan   Equity    Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co., Ltd.   Shipbuilding                   1.20      0.36      1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and
Development Company of         Development
Bangladesh, Ltd.                Finance Company               -        1.05     1.05
Total gross commitments                                               1.20     1.41      2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales               -        -         -
Total now held by IFC                                                 1.20     1.41      2.61
Total undisbursed                                                     0.65      -        0.65
/a  The following IFC investment has been approved but not yet signed:
1982    Bata Shoe Co.                   Shoe Manufacturing
(Bangladesh) Ltd.              and Tannery                   2.7        .5      3.2
r



-30-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
SuPplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:    Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
UNESCO/UNDP
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and
date of first mission to consider the project:
September 1981
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
October 1983
(e)  Date of completion of negotiation:
April 17, 1984
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:   Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:  Special Conditions of effecitiveness would be:
(a) issuance of a Government order establishing the
Practical Attachment Program (paragraph 42);
(b) signing of an agreement with ILO for the
procurement of equipment through EQLIPRO (paragraph 45);



-31-
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(c) appointment of the Project Director (paragraph 52);
(d) effectiveness of the UNDP Project Document (paragraph 54;
(e) effectiveness of the ODA Agreement (paragraph 54).
Other Conditions: The Government would:
(a) appoint all additional staff according to a schedule
agreed with IDA (paragraph 28);
(b) require all new teachers appointed by polytechnics after
July 31, 1988 to have a Diploma in Technical Education
and all existing teachers who do not hold a Diploma in
Technical Education to be enrolled at TTTC by January
1, 1986 (paragraph 38); and
(c) require the TEB by July 31, 1987 to make practical
attachments a requirement for the award of a
Diploma in Engineering and a Diploma in Technical
Education (paragraph 41).






IBRD 17776
J\,9  >;      8,9         90"                                                    92         DECEMBER 1983
BANGLADESH
TECHNICAL EDUCATION PROJECT
AA. POLYTECHNIC INSTITUTES    @B. ENGINEERING COLLEGES
Al Syihet                    Bi Dhaka(Joydebpur)
r /zW ( X              \ Po Gouhoh i  A2 Rangpur  B2 Khulna
A 3 Bogra                    B3 Chittagong
-26.      Thkugno * ~          ~A4 Raishahi                                                    84 Flajshahi                  26-
27                                          To Gon,hoa           A5 Chittagong             MC. OTHERS
AE  Kaptai                   C1 Technical Teacher Training College
RanA,A7 Faridpur                                                C2 Technical Education Board
~A2                                    AB Dinajpur                  C3 Directorace of Technical Education
~~~~~~~   ~ ~ ~    IA 9 Comilla
(A                                         AiD~~~~~~~~~~~A1 Barisal
T0 Kohaha,                                             Alt Ohaka~~~~~3&      -      PRIMARY ROADS
h",          ~~~~A12 Feni                 RIWY
A13 Jessore---- RIWY
A14 Kushtia                 RIVERS
A15 KhuIna            --    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
A16 Pabna                  INTERNATIONALBUDRE
.s   t   g /  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~    .  -   . < 4 ~~~~~~~~~A17    Mymengsingh               -I T R  A  ON  L   BOUNDARIES
-25.                                                                 Chhatak                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25-
E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ pu
RaIshahiA N                                                                     a                       T Aichor
ngail~~~~~~~~~~~~~bgn
ho n  Boafe c v  cf  Se g>                                    uak2h  0aS Ii5.                                 \    '  \i )
-24                   s      21                ttId                                                                          241-
\(   AT A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
C o h o o rah o ,  Trhfe  d.;son at s   p5 3                               s  h m
h,te,natnnahFaaope~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   n                                        khaonaoi
a jj               D                         90     25         ;0 75                                                     _
I~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                          Si
(.1 - --i-- of M ~ ~   ~       ~       go                                          Ch91o






