OFFIIAL       CREDIT NUMBER 1490 BD
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Education Project)
between
PEOPLE' S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                             ,1984


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1490 BD
DEVELOPMNZT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                                      , 1984,
between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF   ANG    ESH (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the United Nations Development Programme (hereinafter
called UNDP) intends to make a grant in an amount equivalent to
six million two hundred thousand dollars ($6,200,000) (herein-
after called the UNDP Grant) to assist in financing the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and UNDP (hereinafter called
the UNDP Project Document); and
(C) the British Overseas Development Administration (here-
inafter called ODA) intends to make a grant in an amount equiva-
lent to four million seven hundred thousand dollars ($4,700,000)
(hereinafter called the ODA Grant) to assist in financing the
Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ODA (hereinafter called
the ODA Agreement); and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following addi-
tional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOE" means the Ministry of Education of the Borrower;
(b)  "DTE" means the Directorate of Technical Education
within MOE;
(c)  "TEB"  means  the  Technical Education   Board  of  the
Borrower;
(d) "technical education institution" means any Polytechnic
or Engineering College where technical education is given;
(e)  "PIW"  means   the  Program   Inspection  Wing   to  be
established within DTE;
(f) "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established
under Credit 407 BD (First Education Project) and which shall
carry out the physical components of the Project;
(g)  "TTTC" means the Technical Teachers Training College at
Tejgaon;
(h)  "ILO" means the International Labor Organization;
(i) "EQUIPRO" means the Technical Cooperation Equipment and
Subcontracting Branch of ILO; and
(j)  "FY" means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing
July 1 and ending June 30.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01, The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to thirty-three million nine hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,900,000).


﻿-3-
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceed3 of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agree-
ment.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1990 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from
a date sixty days after the date of the Development Credit Agree-
ment to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn
by the Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without re-
strictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of th.ree-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.


﻿-4-
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing October 15, 1994, and ending April 15,
2034, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 15, 2004, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.09. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and technical educational
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the pur-
pose.
(b) Without any limitation to the generality of paragraph
(a) above, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be employed in
the departments or agencies of the Borrower and the technical
education institutions referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment the staff specified therein, substantially in accordance
with the provisions of said Schedule.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ or cause to be
employed experts whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-5-
(b)    The Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively
for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall -
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was
awarded and the contract price.
(d)   Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to
the Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and
initial operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits
derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Credit.


﻿-6-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfac-
tory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall:
(a) appoint a Project Director, with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Association, to be responsible for
the implementation of the Project; and
(b) designate a Project Coordinator, i%i MOE with the status
and rank not below that of a Joint Secretary, to be responsible
for the overall coordination of the Project.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall ensure that, after July 31,
1988, all new teachers appointed by Polytechnics will have at
least a Diploma in Technical Education.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall ensure that, after Janu-
ary 1, 1986, all existing teachers at Polytechnics who do not
hold a Diploma in Technical Education will enroll for said
Diploma at TTTC.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall cause TEB, by July 31,
1987, to make participation in the practical attachment program
to be carried out under the Project a requirement for candidates
for the Diplomas in Engineering and Technical Education.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall cause each Polytechnic and
Engineering College to establish, by July 31, 1985, an advisory
commmittee, consisting of the principal or his nominee and repre-
sentatives of the corporate, industrial and other concerns where
the practical attachment program is to be carried out under the
Project in order to assist in organizing and monitoring such
program at the local level.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall ensure that the annual
budgetary allocations made for consumable training materials
will:


﻿-7-
(a) during Project implementation, support the annual
levels of provision per student as set forth in the Annex to
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(b) after Project completion, continue to support the
annual levels of provision per student finally reached during
Project implementation.
Section 3.12. The Borrower shall ensure that the Financial
Rules of 1978 will be revised, not later than July 1, 1985, so as
to raise, for the purpose of adequate maintenance of the
equipment and facilities provided under the Project, the limits
for expenditures which the principals of technical education
institutions can authorize.
Section 3.13. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate annual
budgetary allocations will be made to MOE's Facilities Department
for the maintenance of technical education institutions.
Section 3.14. The Borrower shall ensure that all local
counterpart staff will have been appointed and placed prior to
the arrival of the experts employed to assist in carrying out the
Project.
Section 3.15. The Borrower shall cause adequate funds to
be promptly made available from its own resources to pay duties
and taxes on goods imported for the Project so as not to delay
customs clearance of such goods.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect
of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
including, without limitation to the foregoing, all expenditures
on account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall retain, until one year after the
Closing Date, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,


﻿-8-
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure and shall en-
able the Association's representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall: (i) have the accounts referred to
in paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
a certified copy of the report of such audit by such auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested, including without limitation to the
foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of the
expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit Account on the basis of statements of expenditure have
been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said
accounts, records and expenditures and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. (a) For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that subject to
paragraph (b) of this Section:
(i) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds
of any grant, loan or credit (including, the UNDP
Grant and the ODA Grant) made to the Borrower for
the financing of the Project shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or in
part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement
providing therefor, or
(ii) any such loan or credit shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this Section shall not apply if: (i)
such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not


﻿-9-
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (ii) adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that the event speci-
fied in paragraph (a)(ii) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso in paragraph (b) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section   6.01.  The  following   events  are  specified  as
additional 'conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that:
(a) the Project Proformas for carrying out the Project
shall have been approved by the Borrower;
(b) an agreement with ILO, satisfactory to the Association,
shall have been executed, setting forth the arrangements for
procurement, through EQUIPRO, of the equiment required for the
Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit;
(c) the UNDP Project Document shall have been duly executed
and delivered, and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness
(other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of this Agreement)
shall have been fulfilled;
(d) the ODA Agreement shall have been duly executed and
delivered, and all conditions precedent to its effectiveness
(other than, if applicable, the effectiveness of this Agreement)
shall have been fulfilled;
(e) a Government order shall have been issued formally
establishing the practical attachment programs to be carried out
under Part A.3 of the Project; and
(f) the Project Director shall have been appointed pursuant
to Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The date     Ait$thi 15/             is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.07, 3.11 and 3.13 of this Agreement shall cease and determine
on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate or on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary or any Additional Secretary,
Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section Officer of the
External Resources Division of the Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
External Resources Division
Ministry of Finance
Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh
Dhaka, Bangladesh
Cable address:                       Telex:
BAHIRSAMPAD                         SETU 65886
Dhaka
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By/S
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByS
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works              13,110,000     80%
(including
professional
fees)
(2) Equipment and            13,300,000      100% of foreign
vehicles                                expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 67% of local
expenditures for
other items pro-
cured locally
(3) Furniture                   890,000     80%
(4) Books                       380,000      100% of foreign
expenditures and
67% of local
expenditures
(5) Salaries of incre-        3,620,000     Amounts specified
mental staff, prac-                     in the Annex to
tical attachment                        this Schedule
allowances and con-
sumable training
materials
(6) Unallocated               2,600,000
TOTAL              33,900,000


﻿- 13 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the terr;'tory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that the proceeds of
the Credit shall not be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; on this basis, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of items in any Category decreases or
increases, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable
to such Category as required to be consistent with the aforemen-
tioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be in-
sufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet
the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the


﻿- 14 -
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expen-
diture for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Bor-
rower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 15 -
Schedule 1
Annex
Part A
Staff Salaries*
1.   For  the  purposes   of  disbursement under   Category   (5),
salaries of incremental staff will be calculated using the
following base figures:
Technical Education Board                    25
Directorate of Technical Education
(Project Implementation Unit)              9
Polytechnic Institutes                     772
2.   IDA will disburse against the cost of hiring up to the
following totals of additional staff:
Technical Education Board                   7
Directorate of Technical Education
(Project Implementation Unit)           207
Polytechnic Institutes                    274
3.   Disbursements shall be made in the following proportions:
FY85 -    85% of incremental salaries
FY86 -    75% of incremental salaries
FY87 -    60% of incremental salaries
FY88 -    50% of incremental salaries
FY89 -    50% of incremental salaries
4.   Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure prepared by the DTE and the TEB and certified by the
Project Director, indicating the number of incremental staff who
have been in post, and showing the amount that have been paid to
said staff as salaries. Disbursements will be made on a quarterly
basis.
*    For purposes of this Annex, the term salaries includes
allowances.


﻿- 16 -
Part B
Consumable Training Materials
1.   For the purposes      disbursement under Category (5), IDA
will disburse against the total cost of consumable training
materials using the following provision (expressed in US$
equivalent) per student:
FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Engineering
Colleges        30      35      45      55      60
Polytechnic
Institutes      25      30      40      50      50
2.   Disbursements shall be made in the following proportions:
FY85  -   85%
FY86 -    75%
FY87 -    60%
FY88 -    50%
FY89  -   50%
3.   Disbursements will be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure prepared by the DTE and certified by the Project
Director, showing the amount allocated in the budget for
consumable training materials, and the number of students
enrolled. Disbursements will be made on a quarterly basis.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to support the Borrower's
strategy for developing technical manpower required to meet the
infrastructure and industrial development needs of the country
and, to this end, (a) to improve the quality of training given at
the technical education institutions, and (b) to improve the
management and administration of the technical education system.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Technical Education Quality Improvement
1.   Upgrading of the training program for Polytechnic and
Engineering College teachers.
2.   Revision of existing curricula and development and
implementation of new curricula for training of TTTC,
Polytechnic and Engineering College students.
3.   Development and implementation of practical attachment
programs for TTTC teachers and Polytechnic and Engi-
neering CoAlege students.
4.   Modernization of equipment through repair and replace-
ment and provision of workshop and maintenance equip-
ment at TTTC, Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges.
5.   Construction of new, and renovation and rehabilitation
of existing staff housing, academic, workshop and
hostel facilities, including provision of furniture, at
TTTC, Polytechnics and Engineering Colleges.
Part B:   Technical   Education  Management   and  Administration
Improvement
1.   Strengthening of DTE through the establishment of a
Program Inspection Wing and the strengthening of the
existing Project Implementation Unit.
2.   Strengthening  of  management   and  administration  of
Engineering Colleges through the establishment of an
Executive Board at the national level and Finance and


﻿- 18 -
Planning and Development Committees at the college
level.
3.   Reform of the examinations system at Polytechnics and
Engineering Colleges.
Part C:   Technical Assistance
Provision of consultant services and fellowship training.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1990.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the current edition of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published
by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding as described in
Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procure-
ment notice, in such form and detail and containing such informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request; the Association
will arrange for the publication of such notice in order to
provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the oppor-
tunity to bid for the goods in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods remain to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes
levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and simi-
lar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery, pur-
suant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account in
the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of the goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedure
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 20 -
Bangladesh may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Bangladesh if the bidder shall have established
to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the
Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods  includes   a  value  added  in  Bangladesh
equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid price
of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿-21-
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works may be awarded in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Contracts for furniture may be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
3.   Contracts  for   books  may  be  placed  directly  with
publishers, distributors or book jobbers on the basis of at least
three responsive quotations whenever feasible.
4.   Consumable training materials may be procured through
normal commercial channels.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for equipment and vehicles,
and contracts for civil works or furniture estimated to cost the
equivalent of $250,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the


﻿- 22 -
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph (except for contracts on account of which withdrawals
are allowed from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure), the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Associa-
tion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was
not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Appointment of Additional Staff
Total
to be
Institution        Appointed   FY85 FY86 FY87 FY88 FY89 FY90
Technical Edu-          7         4      3    -     -     -     -
cation Board
Directoratet Tech-
nical Education
- PIU                207*      177    30    -     -      -     -
-  PIW (Inspec-
torate)**     18         6     6    6     -     -     -
Technical Teachers
Training College*** 47         27    20    -
Engineering           128        52    46    30     -     -     -
Colleges**
Polytechnics          274        112   102   60    -      -     -
*    Includes 194 temporary technical and other personnel for a
period of 18 months to assist in supervision of the
rehabilitation program.
**   Additional staff   to be   appointed  and financed   by  the
Borrower.
*** Program and Staffing of the Technical Teachers Training
College (additional staff to be financed by ODA)
1.   The Technical Teachers Training College shall be a technical
education   institution  under   the  Directorate   of  Technical
Education.
2.   The TTTC shall primarily develop and operate teacher train-
ing programs at the Diploma in Technical Education (one-year)
level. A program leading to the Bachelors in Technical Education
(two-year) would also be instituted.


﻿- 24 -
3.   The  TTTC  shall   offer  annually  the  following  training
programs:
(a) As a priority an In-service Training Program for: (i)
all existing untrained teachers in the Polytechnics;
and (ii) all newly appointed Polytechnic teachers;
(b) Updating programs for all Polytechnic teachers;
(c) Specialized short-courses in technical subjects for
staff from other educational institutions; and
(d) Pedagogic    courses   for  teaching   staff   from  the
Engineering Colleges.
4.   Because of the requirements of the programs offered, the
TTTC shall be staffed on a full-time basis by the following
teaching staff:
(a) Principal;
(b) Vice Principal;
(c) 3 Associate Professors;
(d) 6 Assistant Professors;
(e) 4 Lectures; and
(f) 1 Educational Specialist.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198
FOR SECRETARY


