                                   Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR00003524



            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                         (IDA-4456 and IDA-4994)

                                       ON A

                                     CREDIT

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 188.5 MILLION
                        (US$300.00 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                      TO THE

                FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA

                                     FOR THE

            URBAN LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT



                                   June 8, 2015




Social, Urban, Rural and Resilience Global Practice (GSURR)
Country Department 3, AFCE3
Africa Region
                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

               (Exchange Rate Effective June 3, 2015)

                 Currency Unit = Ethiopian Birr (ETB)
                       US$1.00 = ETB 20.59
                        US$1.00 = SDR 1.40

                            FISCAL YEAR
                             July 8–July 7


                 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AMP         Asset management plans
APA         Annual performance assessment
CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
CBDSD       Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery Project
CIP         Capital investment plan
CPS         Country Partnership Strategy
EFY         Ethiopian fiscal year
EMPs        Environmental management plans
ESIA        Environmental and social impact assessment
ESMF        Environment and social management frameworks
GIZ         Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (German
            Society for International Cooperation)
IDA         International Development Association
ISR         Implementation Status and Results Report
M&E         Monitoring and evaluation
MoFED       Ministry of Finance and Economic Development
MUDHCo      Ministry of Urban Development, Housing, and Construction
PDO         Project Development Objective
PforR       Program for Results
PASDEP      Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty
PSCAP       Public Sector Capacity Building Program
REP         Revenue enhancement plan
RPF         Resettlement policy framework
ULG         Urban local government
ULGDP       Urban Local Government Development Project

                    Vice President:      Makhtar Diop
                   Country Director:     Guang Zhe Chen
   Senior Global Practice Manager:       Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
          Acting Practice Manager:       Sameh Naguib Wahba
              Project Team Leader:       Abebaw Alemayehu
                 ICR Team Leader:        Abebaw Alemayehu

                                   ii
                        FEDERAL DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ETHIOPIA


              URBAN LOCAL GOVERNMENT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS


Data Sheet
A. Basic Information
B. Key Dates
C. Ratings Summary
D. Sector and Theme Codes
E. Bank Staff
F. Results Framework Analysis
G. Ratings of Program Performance in ISRs
H. Restructuring
I. Disbursement Graph

1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ......................................... 1
2.       Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .......................................... 7
3.       Assessment of Outcomes ................................................................................... 15
4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome................................................... 24
5.       Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................... 25
6.       Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)........... 30
7.       Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners ..... 32

Annexes

Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 33
Annex 2: Outputs by Component .................................................................................. 34
Annex 3: Economic Analysis ......................................................................................... 36
Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes .............. 39
Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR........................................................................... 41
Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents ........................................................................ 45

Map IBRD 36090 ........................................................................................................... 46




                                                             iii
Data Sheet


    
     A. Basic Information
                                                                           Urban Local Government
Country:                Ethiopia                 Project Name:
                                                                           Development Project
Project ID:             P101474, P125316         L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-4456, IDA-4994
ICR Date:               06/08/2015               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                           Government of the
                        Specific Investment
Lending Instrument:                              Borrower:                 Federal Democratic
                        Loan
                                                                           Republic of Ethiopia
Original Total
                        USD 150.00 M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 144.00 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         USD 300.00 M             Disbursed Amount:         USD 288.00 M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Urban Development, Housing, and Construction
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
        Process             Date           Process              Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:        05/15/2007    Effectiveness:              09/01/2008           11/10/2008
Appraisal:             03/17/2008    Restructuring(s):                                07/05/2011
Approval:              05/29/2008    Mid-term Review:            08/15/2011           08/15/2011
                                     Closing:                    12/31/2014           12/31/2014


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                        Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                     Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                            Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower               Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory       Government:         Satisfactory
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:


                                                iv
Overall Bank                                         Overall Borrower
                           Satisfactory                                        Satisfactory
Performance:                                         Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                              Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                  (if any)
Potential Problem Project                            Quality at Entry
                          Yes                                                None
at any time (Yes/No):                                (QEA):
Problem Project at any                               Quality of
                             No                                              None
time (Yes/No):                                       Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                             Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                    Original                  Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                              100                       55
Rural and inter-urban roads and highways                                0                     15
Solid waste management                                                  0                     10
General water, sanitation and flood protection sector                   0                     10
General industry and trade sector                                       0                     10


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Urban services and housing for the poor                                 75                    29
Municipal governance and institution building                           0                     29
Decentralization                                                         0                    28
Municipal finance                                                       25                    14


E. Bank Staff
        Positions                           At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:              Makhtar Diop                         Obiageli K. Ezekwesili
Country Director:            Guang Zhe Chen                       Kenichi Ohashi
Sector Manager:              Sameh Naguib Wahba                   Jaime M. Biderman
Project Team Leader:         Abebaw Alemayehu                     Rumana Huque
ICR Team Leader:             Abebaw Alemayehu
ICR Primary Author:          Wendy Schreiber Ayres




                                                     v
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to support improved performance in the
planning, delivery, and sustained provision of priority municipal services and
infrastructure by urban local governments (ULGs).

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving
authority)

The Project Development Objective was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                       Actual Value
                                                                  Formally
                                               Values (from                         Achieved at
    Indicator         Baseline Value                          Revised Target
                                                 approval                          Completion or
                                                                   Values
                                               documents)                          Target Years
                ULGs that achieve annual targets specified in ULG revenue enhancement plans
Indicator 1 :
                (number that achieve an 85% increase at the end of calendar 2014) (number)
Value                                       19 cities meet    19 cities meet
                                                                               10 cities meet 85%
quantitative or 0                           75% of their      85% of their
                                                                               of their targets
qualitative)                                targets           targets
Date achieved 12/15/2008                    12/15/2008        7/05/2011        12/31/2014
Comments        Actual revenues increased throughout the project life, but some regions in recent
(incl. %        years set ambitious targets for ULGs, which were simple projections of past
achievement) achievements, and not based on analysis of actual potential.
                ULGs producing timely external audit reports, which are either unqualified or
Indicator 2 :
                qualified with minor comments (number)
Value
quantitative or 0                           19                19               19
qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2008                    12/15/2008        7/05/2011        12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved
achievement)
                ULGs using 75% of annual operations and maintenance budgets as specified in
Indicator 3 :
                cities’ capital investment plans (number).
Value                                       16 cities meet
                                                                               17 cities meet 75%
quantitative or 0                           75% of their
                                                                               of their targets.
qualitative)                                targets.
Date achieved 7/05/2011                     7/05/2011                          12/31/2014
Comments
                This indicator was added during the restructuring of the project in July 2011. The
(incl. %
                target was exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 4:    Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (percent).
Value           0                           2.85 million (50%                  2.85 million (50%

                                               vi
quantitative or                           female)                              female)
Qualitative)
Date achieved 7/05/2011                   7/05/2011                            12/31/2014
Comments
                This indicator was added during the restructuring of the project in July 2011. The
(incl. %
                target was met.
achievement)
                People participating in ULGs provided with access to all-season roads within a
Indicator 5:
                500 meter range under the ULGDP (number).
Value
quantitative or 0                         1.5 million                          1.5 million
qualitative)
Date achieved 7/05/2011                   7/05/2011                            12/31/2014
Comments
                This indicator was added during the restructuring of the project in July 2011. The
(incl. %
                target was met.
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                         Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                             Formally
                                          Values (from                        Achieved at
   Indicator       Baseline Value                            Revised
                                            approval                         Completion or
                                                          Target Values
                                          documents)                          Target Years
Indicator 1 :   ULGs submitting approved CIP with evidence of adequate participation (number).
Value
(quantitative   0                          19                   19              19
or qualitative)
Date achieved 12/15/2008                   12/15/2008           7/11/2011       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        The target was achieved.
achievement)
                ULGs that increase the number of citizens groups participating in the CIP planning
Indicator 2 :
                process (number achieving an 85% increase over baseline).
                                                                19 cities
                                           19 cities achieving
                                                                achieving 85%
Value                                      75% increase in
                                                                increase in the
(quantitative   0                          the number of                        17
                                                                number of
or qualitative)                            groups over
                                                                groups over
                                           baseline
                                                                baseline
Date achieved 12/15/2008                   12/15/2008           7/11/2011       12/31/2014
                All ULGs significantly increased both the number of groups and the number of
Comments
                people participating in discussions to develop the coming year’s CIPs during the
(incl. %
                life of the project. However, two cities did not revise their CIPs in the last year of
achievement)
                the project, and as such, did not hold consultations on them.
                ULGs disseminating information to the public on budgets (including investment
Indicator 3 : plans), expenditures, physical progress of investments, and results of bid
                evaluations and contract awards (number).
Value
                0                          19                   19              19
(quantitative


                                                vii
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 12/15/2008         7/11/2011      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The target was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :     ULGs preparing a 3-year rolling budget (number).
Value
(quantitative     0                          19                 19             19
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 12/15/2008         7/11/2011      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The target was achieved.
achievement)
                  ULGs preparing annual financial reports on time and as per required format
Indicator 5:
                  (number).
Value
(quantitative     0                          100 percent        19             19
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 12/15/2008         7/11/2011      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The target was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 6:      ULGs preparing and adopting a revenue enhancement plan (number).
Value
(quantitative     0                          19                 19             19
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 12/15/2008         7/11/2011      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The target was achieved.
achievement)
                  ULGs submitting infrastructure asset inventories, updated annually, indicating
Indicator 7:
                  additional assets and condition of existing assets (number).
Value
(quantitative     0                          19                 19             19
or qualitative)
Date achieved     12/15/2008                 12/15/2008         7/11/2011      12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %          The target was achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 8:      Non-rural roads constructed under the ULGDP (kilometers).
Value
                                                                1,000
(quantitative     0                                                            870 kilometers
                                                                kilometers
or qualitative)
Date achieved     7/05/2011                  7/11/2011          7/11/2011      12/31/2014
Comments
                  This indicator was added during the restructuring and is a core indicator for the
(incl. %
                  Bank. The target set at the time of the restructuring was indicative only.
achievement)
Indicator 9:      Drainage systems constructed under the ULGDP (kilometers).

                                                  viii
Value
(quantitative   0                                            900 kilometers 647 kilometers
or qualitative)
Date achieved 7/05/2011                  7/11/2011           7/11/2011       12/31/2014
Comments
(incl. %        This indicator was added during the restructuring. The target was indicative only.
achievement)
                Improved community water points constructed or rehabilitated under the ULGDP
Indicator 10:
                (number).
Value
(quantitative   0                                            10              131
or qualitative)
Date achieved 7/05/2011                  7/11/2011           7/11/2011       12/31/2014
Comments
                This indicator was added during the restructuring. The target was greatly
(incl. %
                exceeded.
achievement)
                People in urban areas provided with access to “Improved Water Sources” under
Indicator 11:
                the ULGDP (number).
Value
(quantitative   0                                            2,500           35,600
or qualitative)
Date achieved 7/05/2011                  7/11/2011           7/11/2011       12/31/2014
Comments
                This indicator was added during the restructuring and is a core indicator for the
(incl. %
                Bank. The target was greatly exceeded.
achievement)
Indicator 12: New cities meeting access criteria for a potential second ULGDP (number).
Value
(quantitative   0                                            14              26
or qualitative)
Date achieved 7/05/2011                  7/11/2011           7/11/2011       12/31/2014
Comments        This indicator was added during the restructuring. The target was greatly
(incl. %        exceeded, primarily because the technical assistance provided to the new cities
achievement) was more effective than expected.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
         Date ISR                                                         Actual Disbursements
No.                              DO                        IP
         Archived                                                            (SDR millions)
  1     07/21/2008           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                   0.0
  2     02/25/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  11.15
  3     06/24/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  11.15
  4     08/14/2009           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  11.15
  5     05/29/2010           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  22.85
  6     01/04/2011           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  46.83
  7     06/28/2011           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  76.61
  8     10/18/2011           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  77.25
  9     05/01/2012           Satisfactory              Satisfactory                  81.92

                                               ix
 10    08/17/2012           Satisfactory         Satisfactory               108.99
 11    04/24/2013           Satisfactory         Satisfactory               142.15
 12    11/05/2013           Satisfactory         Satisfactory               167.55
 13    06/18/2014           Satisfactory         Satisfactory               174.40
 14    11/21/2014           Satisfactory         Satisfactory               187.30
 15    02/06/2015           Satisfactory         Satisfactory               188.44


H. Restructuring (if any)

The project was restructured through an Additional Financing that was approved by the
Board on July 5, 2011.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                           x
                          Highlights of Implementation Experience

     Taking a long-term view to building capacity of urban local governments helps to
     ensure coherence in the overall approach. The Bank has been helping Ethiopia’s
     urban local governments build capacity to deliver on their mandates since the early
     2000s, when urban local governments were first recognized as autonomous
     administrations. It has provided assistance through a series of projects, each of
     which has built on the achievements and the lessons learned of the previous
     initiatives.

     Offering performance grants along with support for capacity building is highly
     effective in bringing about positive institutional change. Providing grants on the basis
     of performance creates a strong incentive for cities to meet agreed targets. Offering
     capacity building support gives them the knowledge and tools to do so.

     Support for large primate cities should come through a dedicated project, rather than
     through a project including multiple secondary cities. Large primate cities have
     distinctly different institutional, infrastructure, and financial needs than the smaller
     urban local governments the ULGDP was supporting. A project focused on just
     Addis Ababa would better meet the needs of the city.

     Working in close collaboration with other development partners to ensure maximum
     development impact. The Bank team worked closely with the German Society for
     International Cooperation (GIZ) in the early years of the project to ensure that the
     assistance of each complemented the other in building the capacity of cities, with GIZ
     financing specialists in various aspects of urban administration and the Bank
     financing capacity building support in areas not covered by GIZ.

     Gradually reducing IDA’s contribution for the performance grants aimed at the cities
     that have benefited the longest helps to promote the sustainability of the
     intergovernmental transfer system as a whole. Under the Second ULGDP, IDA’s
     contribution for the cities that benefited under the first ULGDP drops to 40 percent
     from 60 percent, while contributions from regions and cities rise to fill the gap. IDA
     will provide 50–70 percent of the financing for newly participating cities, depending on
     region, and will reduce its contribution in future programs. Over time, regions and
     cities are expected to meet the cities financing needs.

1.       Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

Country and sector background

1.     Ethiopia is a large and diverse country located in the Horn of Africa. It is a
land-locked country with an area of 1.1 million square kilometers—about the size of
France and Spain combined. Ethiopia is a country of many cultures and peoples, with a



                                               1
total population of 88 million (2014).1 At a current annual growth rate of 2.6 percent,
Ethiopia’s population is estimated to reach 130 million by 2025, and is projected by the
United Nations to be among the world’s top ten most populous nations by 2050.

2.      Ethiopia is rapidly urbanizing. Ethiopia is one of the least urbanized countries
in Africa; in 2014 less than 19 percent of the population (about 17 million people) lived
in cities. However, the country’s urban areas are among the fastest growing in Africa,
with populations rising at about 3.8 percent per year.2 It is estimated that the proportion
of the population living in urban areas will triple by 2037 to more than 42 million.

3.       Ethiopia established a federal system of government when it adopted its
1995 constitution, following two decades of civil conflict. In addition to the central
government, Ethiopia has nine regional states, each of which enjoys considerable
autonomy in setting policy and managing its affairs. A second phase of decentralization
began in 2001 after the federal government adopted a poverty reduction and
development policy. Decentralization was a cornerstone of this policy. Under this
policy, city administrations and rural districts (woredas) were given some political,
administrative, and financial rights and responsibilities. To implement the policy, each
of the regional states amended their constitutions starting in 2001 to establish the
institutional and legal frameworks for urban local governments. Combined with fiscal
decentralization, these reforms gave local governments more direct and transparent
control over public spending. The objective was to create and strengthen urban local
governments that would ensure public participation and democratization, and enhance
infrastructure and service delivery.

4.      Under the decentralized system, Ethiopia has two types of urban
governments. Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa are federal chartered cities with the status
of regions (whose city councils report directly to the federal government). Addis Ababa
is Ethiopia’s capital city and its largest with a population of over 2.7 million (about 23
percent of the country’s urban population) and is twelve times larger than Dire Dawa,
the second largest city. Under the regional proclamations, urban local governments
have a governance model that includes an elected council, an elected mayor, a mayor’s
committee and city manager system. About 100 cities have been granted this status,
although this number increases regularly as more urban local governments are brought
under the proclamations. Urban local governments have the authority and mandate to
raise revenues, deliver services and be accountable to their own councils (which report
to the regional government). In most regions, the bureaus of urban development and
construction are responsible for urban management and development issues within the
regional government, supported by regional urban planning institutes.

5.      Urban local governments in Ethiopia have been assigned dual
responsibilities. These are the provision of “state services,” such as education, health,
justice and security, and the provision of “municipal services,” such as urban roads,

1   Ethiopian Central Statistical Agency.
2
    The Ethiopia Urbanization Review: Making Cities Efficient and Sustainable, undertaken by the World
    Bank in 2015, shows a higher rate of urbanization of 5.4 percent a year.

                                                  2
drainage, solid waste collection and disposal, and sanitation. State functions are
financed through regional block grants to local governments. All municipal functions are
expected to be funded from own local revenues for both recurrent and capital
expenditures. However, the block grants for state services are often barely sufficient to
cover their recurrent costs, and many such services are cross-subsidized through
municipal or other revenues.

6.     Global experience shows that countries that advance to middle income
status typically undergo significant urbanization and industrialization. Ethiopia’s
rapidly urbanizing cities and towns are key drivers of its economic growth. If Ethiopia is
to reach middle income status, it needs to exploit the opportunities for generating the
agglomeration economies associated with urbanization. Urban areas are estimated to
now employ about 15 percent of the labor force and account for over 38 percent of
gross domestic product.3 In addition, urbanization offers new opportunities to improve
education, health, and other public services, as more concentrated populations are
easier to reach.

Rationale for World Bank involvement

7.      The World Bank has been supporting the Government of Ethiopia with
issues of urban development since the early 2000s, when urban local
governments were first recognized as autonomous administrations. Support first
came through the Capacity Building for Decentralized Service Delivery (CBDSD)
Project, which focused on helping regions and cities to establish the necessary
legislative and fiscal frameworks. The project also provided a range of training and
technical assistance to help establish cities as viable entities able to fulfill their
mandates. CBDSD focused on 18 cities; these were the regional capitals plus three of
the largest cities in each of the four major regions, and Dire Dawa and Harar.4 Specific
assistance was also provided to Addis Ababa. The capacity building efforts of CBDSD
have enabled the cities to establish the basic functions of successful urban
administrations. CBDSD started in 2002 and finished in 2008. In 2004, CBDSD was
scaled up under a broader Public Sector Capacity Building Program (PSCAP). Cities,
through their regional bureaus of capacity building, prepared capacity building
proposals, which were presented to PSCAP for funding. PSCAP ended in 2013.

8.      The Urban Local Government Development Project (ULGDP) started in 2008
to build on and consolidate the Bank’s previous support for urban development.
The ULGDP was designed to enable city administrations to learn by doing, the most
effective way of mastering new responsibilities. It provided a predictable flow of
resources to the 19 cities (including Addis Ababa) tied to performance in participatory
3
    World Bank. Ethiopian Urbanization Review: Making Cities Efficient and Sustainable, June 2015.
4
    The 19 urban local governments are the chartered cities of Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa; Bahir Dar,
Kombolcha, Gondar and Dessie in Amhara Region; Mekelle, Adigrat, Axum and Shire Endeselassie in
Tigray Region; Adama, Bishoftu, Jimma and Shashemene in Oromia Region; Awassa, Arbaminch,
Wolayta Sodo and Dilla in Southern Nations, Nationalities, and Peoples Region; and Harar in Harari
Region. In this document, the words “cities” and “ULGs” are used interchangeably to refer to all 19,
unless otherwise specified.

                                                  3
planning, financial management, transparency and accountability, and the delivery and
operation of urban infrastructure and services. The Bank’s history in working with the
Government of Ethiopia to set up the fiscal architecture for decentralized local
government also provided a clear rationale for the Bank’s involvement in this project.
One element of the fiscal architecture was a programmatic, formula-based, performance
grant that would support the country’s urban local governments’ ability to expand and
sustain the full range of municipal infrastructure and services. The ULGDP supported
establishment of this grant mechanism as a specific purpose grant for urban local
governments. In addition, the Bank had been providing support for conditional grant
transfers to local government through a number of projects in Africa (including Uganda,
Tanzania, and Swaziland) as well as in other regions of the world. It therefore had a
comparative advantage in supporting government efforts in this area by bringing in the
experiences and lessons learned from different countries.

Contribution to higher-level objectives

9.      The project was a central element of the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) for Ethiopia for fiscal 2008–11, discussed by the World Bank’s Board of Directors
on April 29, 2008. The CAS aimed to support the government’s Plan for Accelerated
and Sustained Development to End Poverty (PASDEP), especially its pillar of
accelerating growth, which included urban development as a key element. Specifically,
the ULGDP supported (a) improved management of urban centers, including
participation of citizens in the investment planning process, and improved downward
accountability; and (b) enhanced performance in sustained provision of services and
infrastructure, which were essential to improve the local investment climate, generate
employment, and contribute to economic growth and poverty alleviation.

Original Project Development Objectives and Key Indicators

10.     The Project Development Objective (PDO) was to support improved performance
in the planning, delivery and sustained provision of priority municipal services and
infrastructure by urban local governments.

11.     For the participating cities, the expected outcomes of the project were: (a)
effective and responsive planning to meet service delivery priorities identified by citizens
(allocative efficiency/participation objective); (b) improved financial management and
mobilization of own resources and more effective operations and maintenance of
infrastructure assets (sustainability objective); (c) improved dissemination to the public
of budgets/plans and performance measures (accountability objective); and (d) effective
implementation of capital investment plans (CIP) (service delivery improvement
objective).

12.    The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) specified eight key performance
indicators for the cities. These were:




                                             4
・       Increase in number of citizen’s groups participating in the capital investment
        planning process (number of cities achieving 75 percent increase).
・       Alignment of capital investment plans with surveyed infrastructure service
        delivery priorities of citizens (number of cities achieving 70 percent alignment).
・       Achievement of targets under the city revenue enhancement plans (REPs)
        (number achieving 75 percent of targets).
・       Cities producing timely external audits reports (number).
・       Cities disseminating information to the public on budgets, including investment
        plans, expenditures, physical progress of investments, and results of bid
        evaluations and contract awards (number).
・       Infrastructure assets the condition of which has improved (percentage)
・       Increase in the city’s infrastructure assets (number of cities increasing their
        assets).
・       For a sample of capital investments, those that are of appropriate standards
        suited to local conditions and needs (percentage).

13.   A table in annex 3 of the PAD provided further information on the project’s
monitoring framework, including intermediate outcome indicators, baseline and target
values, and sources of information to track progress with the indicators.

Revised PDO and Key Indicators

14.     The project’s PDO was not revised. However, during the restructuring approved
in July 2011, the results framework was substantially revised and several of the original
key performance indicators were dropped because of measurement difficulties, and two
were moved to intermediate results. Bank core indicators for urban programs were
added. In addition, outcome targets were adjusted upwards to reflect the expected
increased impact of the project with respect to both administrative performance of cities
and in delivery of infrastructure and services. Specifically, more cities were expected to
submit timely audit reports which are unqualified or qualified with minor comments.
More cities were also expected to achieve at least 85 percent of revenue targets. Cities
were now also expected to demonstrate that they have largely spent the funds they
have allocated for operations and maintenance. The revised key performance
indicators are presented below:5

・       Urban local governments that achieve targets specified in ULG REPs (number
        that achieve 85 percent of targets by end fiscal 2014).
・       Urban local governments producing timely external audit reports, which are either
        unqualified, or qualified with minor comments (number).
・       Urban local governments using 75 percent of annual operations and
        maintenance budgets as specified in their CIPs (number).
・       Direct project beneficiaries (number), of which female (percent).
・       People in participating urban local governments provided with access to all-
        season roads within a 500 meter range under the ULGDP (number).

5
    The final two indicators are core indicators for the Bank.

                                                      5
Main Project Beneficiaries

15.     The primary target beneficiaries were 2.85 million inhabitants of 19 large cities in
Ethiopia, who were expected to directly gain from improved urban services and
infrastructure. Staff of the city administrations were expected to gain from opportunities
to upgrade skills. Finally, businesses, especially micro and small enterprises, were
expected to benefit from an improved investment climate linked to enhanced urban
infrastructure and services, and from opportunities to supply services.

Original Project Components

16.     The project comprised two components: (1) performance grants, and (2)
implementation support. Component 1 supported a grant transfer mechanism—in the
form of a conditional specific purpose grant fully integrated within the intergovernmental
fiscal framework—to Ethiopia’s urban local governments. It supported 19 urban local
governments, including Addis Ababa, Dire Dawa and four regional capitals. The 19
cities are home to about 5 million people, or 42 percent of Ethiopia’s urban population.6
Component 2 supported project management and technical support, including a
monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system, annual urban local government performance
assessments, training, and technical assistance in environment and social
management, procurement, financial management, and other areas, with the objective
to strengthen capacity of the Ministry of Urban Development and Construction
(MUDHCo, formerly known as the Ministry of Works and Urban Development) and of
urban local government to effectively execute their responsibilities. About 97 percent
(US$145 million) of the International Development Association (IDA) credit was
allocated for the performance grants, 2 percent (US$3 million) was given for
implementation support, and the remainder (US$2 million) went for contingencies.

Revised Project Components

17.      The components were not revised.

Other Significant Project Changes

18.    On July 5, 2011, the Bank’s Board of Directors approved Additional Financing for
the ULGDP in the amount of US$150 million. The project’s scope increased, both by
scaling up support to the 19 cities currently participating in the project and by assisting
18 additional cities to build basic capacities in the areas of preparation of capital
investment plan, asset management, financial management, and revenue enhancement
to prepare them to participate in a potential second phase of the project. The overall
cost of the project rose to US$416 million, or some US$208 million more than what was
originally estimated. With the US$150 million in Additional Financing, the contribution of
IDA to the overall project increased to US$300 million. No changes were made in the


6
      Ethiopia 2007 population census.

                                             6
project’s design, financial management, disbursement arrangements, procurement
arrangements, funding allocations, or closing date.

19.  A new Financing Agreement was put into place to reflect the new Credit. No
amendments were made to either of the Financing Agreements.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

QAG–No QAG at entry.

20.     Several factors of project preparation and design positively affected
implementation. The decision to provide performance-based conditional grants to city
administrations was based on experience in other countries, where they proved a
powerful incentive for change while providing city administrations the freedom to find
appropriate local solutions to achieve results. The design of the performance grant
systems was based on the lesson that minimum access conditions and performance
measures need to be clear and easy to measure objectively, and that their number
should be as few as possible. The ULGDP thus had only four minimum access
conditions and seven performance measures. The design further reflected the lesson
that to be credible, the system needs to have clear, transparent, and objective formulas
for allocations and reallocations. The allocation formula for the ULGDP was based on
population (except for Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa, which received lump sum
allocations) and on performance as assessed in an independent annual performance
assessment (APA).7 The design of the ULGDP was also based on a solid
understanding of the capacity and needs of the new Ethiopian city administrations that
arose from work done under the CBDSD. The ULGDP thus included access criteria
that were appropriate for ULGs with relatively low capacity, including submission of a
signed participation and performance agreement, submission of a council-approved
rolling 3-year capital investment plan developed through a participatory process,
indication of own budgetary resources adequate to meet counterpart funding and
operations and maintenance requirements, and evidence of adequate staff in the
administration to support implementation. The design of the project also benefited from
extensive consultations with stakeholders at federal, regional, and city levels to discuss
and agree on project principles and key design elements. The decision to include
evidence of participation in the preparation and updating of CIPs as a performance
measure ensured that cities selected investments that were generally in line with
citizen’s preferences.




7
     Given the large populations of both Addis Ababa and Dire Dawa compared to the other 17 ULGs,
providing funds to all the ULGs based purely on population shares would mean that Addis and Dire Dawa
would get the bulk of the funds, with very little left to share between the other 17. In addition, Addis
Ababa, as the capital city and commercial center of the country, has greater access to alternative sources
of finance than other ULGs.

                                                    7
21.     In addition, the design of the project reflected the lesson from experience with the
CBDSD and with the German development bank-financed Urban Development Fund
that projects involving many small investments at the local government level can be
much more effectively implemented by local governments than by a central ministry.
Local government staff have much greater knowledge of the local conditions and the
local firms than staff of the central ministry. Empowering the city administrations to
execute the works also promotes accountability, ownership, and learning-by-doing of
the local government. Recognizing that building capacity to handle larger, more
complex works projects would take time, the design of the ULGDP included funding for
MUDHCo to provide specific support for the design, supervision, and contract
management of larger projects.

22.    Project design and preparation also benefited from the personal commitment of
the state minister of MUDHCo to enhance capacity of cities to deliver infrastructure and
services. The state minister was the former mayor of Addis Ababa, and understood the
important role cities play in promoting national growth and development.

23.     The PAD discussed alternative design elements considered and the reasons for
rejecting them. The document specified the risks the project would face and identified
adequate mitigation measures.

24.     Procurement and financial management arrangements were thoroughly
assessed and helped to ensure that resources were used as intended. The project was
classified appropriately as environmental assessment category B (partial assessment),
because the planned urban infrastructure and services were not expected to result in
environmental damage or significant resettlement. All works projects for which sites
would be identified during implementation were subject to review under the project’s
environmental and social management framework (ESMF) and resettlement policy
framework (RPF), which specified in detail procedures to be followed during the
planning, design, construction, and operation phases of subprojects to identify and to
mitigate potential adverse impacts. The ESMF and RPF report prepared for the project
was publicly disclosed locally and through the Bank’s InfoShop prior to appraisal. The
monitoring and evaluation framework was thorough, with PDO outcome and
intermediate outcome indicators covering the critical results areas that the project
supported, and with baseline and target values. Representatives of the federal,
regional, and urban local governments and the Bank worked together to develop the
results framework, which ensured that it reflected outcomes that all partners were
committed to achieving.

25.     By the time of Board presentation the project implementation plan and
operational manual had been reviewed and cleared. In addition, institutional analyses
of cities’ capacity for planning, participation, financial management, and service delivery
had been carried out and the government’s Urban Good Governance Program had
been put into place to address capacity weaknesses. Relevant manuals (particularly
with regard to financial management and infrastructure services management) had
been developed, and training for cities in these had either started or had been budgeted

                                             8
and planned. The government had appointed a coordinator for the ULGDP at the
federal level, and a full team within the MUDHCo to manage the implementation of the
ULGDP. Numerous meetings and workshops had been held with regional and city
representatives to discuss and agree on project principles and key design parameters.

26.     The PAD specified three effectiveness conditions, two of which were aimed at
ensuring that financial management for the project was handled in accordance with
Bank policies and procedures. These were: (a) a qualified accountant will be recruited
in the Ministry of Finance and Economic Development (MoFED) with qualifications,
experience and terms of reference satisfactory to IDA; and (b) MoFED will conduct
training on financial management procedures for all staff involved in project financial
management, including training on the preparation of interim financial reports to the
ULGs’ staff. The third condition of effectiveness was that the government adopted the
project implementation plan and operational manual in form and substance satisfactory
to IDA. The government signed the Financing Agreement on June 13, 2008, but was
not able to meet the conditions within the deadline of 90 days, due to delays in
MoFED’s hiring of the accountant and providing training on financial management
procedures. The project was declared effective until November 10, 2008, nearly four
months after the Board date, and two and half months after the planned date of
effectiveness.

27.     The Financing Agreement included a number of covenants intended to ensure
that the project met its objectives. These included covenants relating to activities that
had to be carried out early in the project, which included: (a) preparation of an
implementation capacity assessment of project implementing agencies and preparation
of a program of support to build capacity of the agencies; (b) confirmation from
participating ULGs that project coordinators had been appointed; (c) submission to the
Bank of a work program for each implementing agency for carrying out internal audits of
project funds; and (d) confirmation that an independent auditor had been appointed.
Additional covenants included activities that had to be carried out each year: (a)
appointment of the team to carry out the independent annual performance assessment;
and (b) submission to the Bank of the findings of the assessment. The covenants were
generally necessary, although not all. For example, type and frequency of project
progress reports need not have been included as a covenant.

28.     One aspect of the design that negatively affected implementation was the
inclusion of Addis Ababa in the project. Addis Ababa has far larger own-source
revenues than any of the other cities participating in the project, and the funds available
to it under the ULGDP did not provide a sufficient incentive to bring about significant
change with the city administration. Moreover, Addis Ababa as a federally chartered
city is a different type of local government than the smaller cities participating in the
project, with a different institutional structure and much more complex infrastructure
needs. Addis Ababa consistently scored relatively poorly in the APAs and did not
qualify for additional funding beyond its initial allocation.

29.    In summary, the design was appropriate to meet the project’s objectives.

                                             9
Project Implementation

30.      Several factors affected implementation. The most important factor negatively
affecting implementation was the consistent delays by the MUDHCo in procuring the
firm to undertake the APAs. The project design envisioned that the assessment would
take place in September/October and that the final assessment report would be
submitted to the MUDHCo and the Bank by November 15 of each year. This would
enable the government to announce in January/February the allocations to be made to
each urban local government for the following financial year, in line with their annual
budget preparation calendar. For example, the contract for the first annual performance
assessment was signed in mid-May 2010 instead of in August 2009. This delayed the
completion of the report until September 2010, and the allocations were not announced
until October 2010. This proved a great inconvenience for cities, which were not been
able to finalize their CIPs, due to uncertainty regarding their allocations. This is in turn
led to delays in preparing and submitting to the World Bank for approval cities’ annual
procurement plans. As cities cannot procure consultancies, goods, or works without
having an approved procurement plan, the delay also led to lower than necessary
disbursement of ULGDP funds. The delays persisted throughout the project
implementation period, with the second APA report finalized in August 2011, the third in
July 2012, and the fourth in August 2013. In 2012, following submission of the third
APA, the government and the Bank agreed to lower the threshold for adequate
utilization of the CIP budget to 65 percent from 80 percent, enabling 18 cities to receive
higher allocations, rather than seven. The same situation occurred in 2013, and the
government and the Bank agreed to include the performance measure for utilization of
CIP budgets by cities with the other seven performance measures to determine the final
scoring of cities as: good, satisfactory, or unsatisfactory. This allowed 14 cities to
receive accelerated allocations, instead of eight.

31.      A second factor negatively affecting project implementation was the lack of
financial resources for the regional government agencies in the project. Although the
regional governments were expected to perform critical tasks—including overseeing
implementation of the ESMF and the resettlement action plans, and preparing annual
audit reports of cities’ financial statements and clearing their audit backlogs—the project
did not provide any funding to the regional agencies for these tasks. Therefore,
although the regional agencies worked hard to support the cities, they did not have the
required capacity to provide all the support needed in a timely fashion. For example,
even though the regional auditors general gave priority in their work program to auditing
cities’ financial statements, they nearly always delivered the final audit report after the
deadline of January 7. The Bank’s task team discussed this issue with the government
on a number of occasions during the design and implementation stages of the project.
However, MUDHCo did not support the idea of providing dedicated resources to
regional government entities on the grounds that regional governments receive
considerable funds from the central government in the form of block grants. Moreover,
adding performance measures for regional government entities would also have added
complexity to an already complex project. However, based on experience under the

                                            10
ULGDP and in line with the growing capacity of MUDHCo to manage complex projects,
the Second ULGDP Program for Results (PforR) Operation includes performance
grants for regional auditors general, the regional environmental protection agencies,
and the regional revenue authorities.

32.     A third factor affecting project implementation was inadequate staffing of the
project team in the MUDHCo and high staff turnover in city administrations. Vacancies
in key staff positions at the ministry—especially in procurement, M&E and
engineering—often took a long time to fill. A lack of staff meant that the MUDHCo could
not provide as much support and oversight to cities as was required to ensure that
chosen investments were appropriate, quality of work was adequate, and progress was
effectively monitored and reported. High turnover of city administration staff resulted in
uneven quality of CIPS, REPs, asset management plans (AMPs), and monitoring and
evaluation reports. This reduced the value of these documents for urban management.
The Second ULGDP takes this lesson into account by requiring ULGs to demonstrate
each year that they have the necessary staff to effectively benefit from the resources
provided under the Program.

33.    A critical factor that positively affected implementation was the support that the
German Society for International Cooperation (GIZ) provided to cities during the early
years of project implementation under the Urban Governance and Decentralization
Program. GIZ financed teams of specialists in various aspects of urban management,
including financial management, preparation of CIPs, revenue enhancement plans, and
asset management plans, procurement, and monitoring and evaluation. The teams
were based in the capital city of each of the four regions participating in the ULGDP,
and provided support to each city in the region.

34.   Another important factor helping with implementation was the support provided to
the government by the Bank’s task team. The Bank’s task team leader for the ULGDP
and many members of the task team were based in Addis Ababa, and were able to
provide day-to-day support to the ministry to address challenges as they arose.

35.     The restructuring of the project that took place in the context of Additional
Financing approved by the Board in July 2011 further supported smooth
implementation. The restructuring brought an additional US$208 million (US$150 IDA)
to the project, allowing participating cities to take on larger and more complex projects
and further improve their performance in participatory planning, financial management,
procurement, execution of infrastructure projects, and sustainable delivery of services.
It also provided additional resources to the MUDHCo for use in supporting cities. The
restructuring also involved updating of the results targets to reflect the scaling up of
ongoing interventions in the cities, and substituting some of the original indicators with
new ones designed to better track the outcomes of the project.

36.    The midterm review, which took place shortly after the Additional Financing was
approved, provided a comprehensive assessment of progress towards development
objectives and implementation performance. It was enriched by the preliminary findings

                                            11
of the second annual performance assessment for financial year 2009/10; the ULGDP
midterm review background paper prepared by the ministry; and a value for money
study, undertaken with support of GIZ, that examined the quality and value for money of
investments undertaken under the ULGDP. The midterm review confirmed the overall
relevance of the project, its objectives and key performance indicators, design, and
overall project management arrangements. It also identified implementation challenges
and recommended measures for addressing them.

Monitoring and Evaluation

37.     Design. The PAD included a results framework with PDO and intermediate
results indicators, and with baseline and target values for all indicators. The eight PDO
outcome indicators appropriately covered the four key results areas of the project.
However, several of the original indicators proved difficult to measure and were dropped
as part of the restructuring. These included (a) alignment of CIPs with surveyed
infrastructure service delivery priorities of citizens, and (b) percentage of infrastructure
assets the condition of which has improved, both of which proved difficult to measure.
Others were moved to intermediate results—including (a) increase in the number of
citizen’s groups participating in the CIP planning process, and (b) number of ULGs
disseminating information to the public—because both participation and dissemination
are steps towards improved delivery of services and infrastructure and not ends in
themselves. Bank core indicators for urban programs were added in their place. To
keep the project teams focused on the main results, the number of PDO outcome
indicators was reduced to five from eight. Outcome targets were adjusted upwards to
reflect the expected increased impact of the project with respect to both administrative
performance of cities and in delivery of infrastructure and services. The revised results
framework proved much easier for project implementing entities to use in tracking
results, while still generating the information required to assess the outcomes of the
project. Due to their efficacy, many of the indicators have been retained to monitor
progress under the Second Urban Local Development Program.

38.     Implementation. Implementation of the monitoring and evaluation system
proved challenging, especially in the early years of implementation. Although to
participate in the project, cities were required to appoint an M&E focal person, the
appointed persons often had little idea of what they were supposed to do. In addition,
they needed to collect data from many different parts of the city administration—
including the departments of public works, the offices of finance and development, and
the revenue collection authorities—which sometimes proved to be difficult. Although the
Bank offered periodic training on M&E to city staff, high staff turnover meant that
training had to be more frequent than it was. Weaknesses in reporting from cities
resulted in deficiencies in the quarterly progress reports compiled by the ministry.
These often contained inaccurate data and lacked narratives of what was working well
and what challenges needed to be addressed. Performance in the area of M&E
improved over time, as cities gained experience and started to recognize M&E as a
valuable management tool. Further strengthening of M&E is taking place under the
Second ULGDP. The Bank team reported on the functioning of the project’s M&E

                                            12
system in each aide memoire, noting improvements and areas requiring further
strengthening.

39.     Utilization. The cities prepared presentations drawing on the monitoring
information to use as the basis of discussions during implementation support missions.
Specifically, they used the information to identify areas of particular challenge and to
specify measures to address them. For example, the Bank team suggested ways to
shorten procurement times when it noted that implementation of capital investment
plans was lagging. It also proposed hiring of extra engineers at MUDHCo and
deploying them to cities to assist with contract management. The Bank team also
suggested ways to improve own-source revenue mobilization when it observed
challenges in this area, for example advising cities to set targets for revenues on the
basis of revenue potential per source, rather than through flat percentage increases
from all sources, and to take measures to improve collection efficiency by delegating
collection to sub-cities.

Safeguards and Fiduciary Compliance

40.     During the early years of implementation, cities struggled to properly apply the
project’s ESMF and RPF. Although they screened the proposed investment projects at
the planning stage, they occasionally made mistakes in categorizing them as schedule
1, 2, or 3.8 This led to some works, such as the Gondar bus terminal, starting without a
comprehensive environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA). Once the city was
informed of the error, it undertook the ESIA and submitted it to the government and the
Bank as required. To strengthen capacity of cities to comply with the project’s
safeguards requirements, the ministry and Bank safeguard specialists intensively
monitored compliance with safeguards, provide advice and offered training, and
recommended that annual safeguards audits be carried out. By the mid-point of the
project, cities’ compliance with the project’s safeguards requirements was generally
satisfactory. Regional environmental protection agencies played their role in certifying
the cities’ screening reports and in reviewing and approving ESIAs, environmental
management plans (EMPs), and resettlement action plans. However, cities were less
vigilant about ensuring that infrastructure subprojects were constructed and operated in
accordance with the recommendations of the EMPs.

41.    Cities generally complied with the Bank’s fiduciary policies, with their
performance improving over time. By the end of the project, all city administrations
were using the double entry cash basis accounting system, and were using the
computerized IBEX system for the city accounts. However, in most cities, ULGDP
resources have not been integrated into the city’s accounting system, and are
accounted for manually. MoFED, which prepared the interim financial report on the
basis of data from the regions and cities, generally delivered them on time, although not
always with the consistency required. Financial management was rated moderately
satisfactory during most of the project implementation period, including at closing. It

8
   Category 1 projects are those that may have significant impacts, while category 3 projects are those
expected to have insignificant impacts.

                                                  13
was rated satisfactory in five Implementation Status Reports, including the first three,
and those issued on April 24, 2013 and November 5, 2013. Despite some weaknesses,
the financial management system for the project provided the necessary assurance that
the Bank proceeds were being used for the intended purposes and that reports
produced by the system could be relied upon to monitor the project. Aside from the
audit covering the financial year that ended on July 7, 2014, which was qualified, all
audits for the project were unqualified or clean.

42.     MUDHCo and some cities had difficulty complying with the Bank’s procurement
procedures, particularly in the early years of implementation, which led to delays in the
execution of some activities and some ineligible expenditures. For example, some
cities combined local competitive bidding contracts together as if they were a single
contract, which, if a single contract, would have an estimated cost above the threshold
for local competitive bidding contracts. Moreover, cities did not always use the bidding
documents agreed by MUDHCo and the Bank, and instead issued simple invitations for
bids to specific firms. Some cities disqualified bidders in the bid opening process for
reasons which were not related to qualification criteria. The Bank team intensively
monitored compliance with the project’s procurement procedures and developed action
plans for the ministry and the cities to improve performance. By the end of the project,
the ministry’s and cities’ procurement systems and arrangements were functioning
reasonably well. Procurement was rated moderately satisfactory during most of the
project implementation period. It was rated satisfactory in only the first three
Implementation Status Reports, before much procurement had taken place.

Post-completion Operation and Next Phase

43.     A follow-on operation, the Second ULGDP was approved by the Board on May 2,
2014. Its development objective is to assist the government in enhancing the
institutional performance of participating urban local governments in developing and
sustaining urban infrastructure and services. The new operation provides conditional
grants to 26 new ULGs in addition to 18 that participated in the ULGDP (for a total of 44
ULGs) across nine regional governments.9 The operation also includes support to build
the capacity of the participating ULGs.

44.    The ULGDP 2 uses the PforR instrument that became available in 2012. The
PforR instrument is the optimal instrument for the operation, because its mechanisms
are highly complementary to the intention and design of the government’s program. It
allows the Bank’s support to: (a) focus on improving results, in addition to scaling up the
government’s existing program (the ULGDP) without unnecessary duplication; (b) make
use of existing federal, regional, and local government systems (including public
financial management, social and environmental systems management, and
procurement management), while further strengthening and integrating them; and (c)
adopt a direct, incentive-driven approach to achieve the development objectives.



9
    Addis Ababa is not participating in ULGDP 2.

                                                   14
3.     Assessment of Outcomes

Overall rating: Highly Satisfactory

Objectives. The overall objectives of the ULGDP were and remain highly relevant.
They reflect the importance of strengthening the capacity of the participating cities to
effectively deliver services and infrastructure to a growing urban population. As
mentioned in Section 1.1, the project’s objectives were consistent with the objectives of
Ethiopia’s PASDEP for 2005/06-2009/10, which were to lay out the directions for
accelerated, sustained, and people-centered economic development. The PASDEP
included promoting urban development as a key element of the pillar for achieving
accelerated growth. It explicitly named as important components for urban
development: (a) strengthening municipal governments; (b) investing in essential urban
infrastructure; (c) developing urban financing mechanisms; and (d) improving the
regulatory and licensing environment for urban land. The ULGDP supported all these
components. The project’s objectives were supportive of those of the Bank’s CAS for
fiscal 2008–11, which explicitly names fostering economic growth, improving access to
and quality of basic service delivery, and fostering improved governance as strategic
objectives. The ULGDP supported the achievement of these three strategic objectives
by assisting city administrations improve their governance to deliver urban infrastructure
and services that are critical to foster economic growth. The objectives of the project
remain highly relevant to Ethiopia’s more recent development strategy, the Growth and
Transformation Plan (GTP) for 2010/11–2014/15, which emphasized the importance of
urban development for the country’s economic growth. Most recently, the government
has further elaborated the importance of urban governance in its forthcoming Ethiopian
Cities Prosperity Initiative: Building Green, Resilient and Well Governed Cities, which
lays out its medium and long-term strategy for urban development. Collectively, these
documents focus on building the institutional capacity of urban local governments to
promote livable urban centers and stimulate overall development.

The project was also an integral element of the Country Partnership Strategy (CPS) for
2013–16, discussed by the Board on September 24, 2012. The ULGDP directly
supported pillar one of the CPS by financing urban infrastructure and services. The
ULGDP also directly contributed to the CPS’s objective of supporting good governance
by providing resources on the basis of performance in participatory planning, financial
management, procurement, execution of infrastructure projects, and sustainable
delivery of services.

45.     Design. The design was and remains highly relevant. The overall design to
provide performance-based grants to cities was appropriate to bring about substantial
institutional change while empowering cities to find the most effective way to deliver the
services and infrastructure for which they are responsible. The design was based on a
solid understanding developed under the CBDSD of what types of support cities would
need to deliver on their mandates and identification of the sources of support for
capacity building, specifically PSCAP and the GIZ-supported Urban Good Governance
and Decentralization Program. The design of the ULGDP remained relevant at the time

                                            15
the Additional Financing package was prepared and did not change with the
restructuring. The results framework, however, was revised to include as PDO
indicators Bank core indicators, drop indicators that were difficult to measure, shift some
indicators to intermediate results to reflect their position in the results chain, and adjust
upwards some targets (see section 2.3 for a discussion of the changes in the results
framework). As described in paragraph 31, one deficiency in the design was the lack of
financial resource for the regional entities, which were expected to support ULGs in a
number of areas, such as preparing annual audits and overseeing compliance with the
project’s safeguards agreements. Although the lack of resources reduced the regional
entities’ ability to fully support the ULGs—a deficiency that has been corrected in the
Second ULGDP, based on the experience of the ULGDP—this did not negatively affect
the project’s outcome, because GIZ-supported technical assistants were able to assist
cities when regional governments could not. In general, due to their relevance, the key
elements of the design have been carried over the ULGDP 2, including providing
resources to cities on the basis of performance as assessed through APAs, and
delivering capacity support through mobile teams of specialists based in the regions.

46.     Implementation. Implementation arrangements were and remain highly
relevant. Implementation took place, to a large extent, through country and regional
systems. The cities’ project management teams were drawn from the relevant
departments of the administration, headed by a coordinator that reported to the mayor.
The regional administrations similarly put together teams comprised of relevant staff.
The mobile teams supported under the Urban Good Governance and Decentralization
Program guided cities in preparation of their CIPs, REPs, AMPs, and in financial
management, social accountability, infrastructure management, and other areas critical
for effective urban management. The mobile teams helped to ensure that
implementation stayed on track, and helped build the capacity of city staff through on-
the-job training. The project’s M&E arrangements were relevant, with monitoring
reports highlighting achievements and noting implementation obstacles. Presentations
based on these reports formed the basis of discussions between the Bank, MUDHCo,
regions and cities. The APAs were critical in verifying information provided by the cities,
highlighting strengths and weaknesses in performance by city, and promoting a sense
of competition among cities, which spurred all to continually improve performance.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Satisfactory

47.     The ULGDP largely achieved its objectives to support improved performance in
the planning, delivery and sustained provision of priority municipal services and
infrastructure by urban local governments. Through strengthening of capacity, 19 of
Ethiopia’s urban local governments are now much more capable of delivering
infrastructure and services than they were prior to the start of the project. All but one of
the PDO outcome targets were achieved. Specifically:




                                             16
・     Ten ULGs achieved 85 percent of annual targets specified in ULG revenue
      enhancement plans. All cities increased their revenues substantially over the
      project period, with own-source revenues for the participating cities in aggregate
      rising by 135 percent between fiscal 2008/09 and fiscal 2012/13. However,
      regions then provided higher, more ambitious targets to cities, which were based
      on simple projections of past achievements rather than on analysis of actual
      potential. Setting ambitious targets at the central and regional levels is common
      in Ethiopia, which still relies on principles of central planning. Thus, the number
      of cities achieving their revenue targets varied from year to year. A high of 13
      cities met 85 percent of their revenue targets in fiscal 2012/13.

Table 1: Revenue generation performance of ULGs participating in the ULGDP
(except Addis), 2011–2014




Source: MUDHCo, based on data provided by ULGs.

・     All 19 cities have produced an external audit report for Fiscal 2012/13. All
      are qualified with minor comments. This contrasts with the situation in
      previous years, when a number of cities received adverse or disclaimer audit
      reports. The number achieving this is above the target of 18 for 2012/13. In
      addition, all 19 cities cleared their audit backlogs during the course of project
      implementation. This is a major achievement, as at the start of the program, all
      cities had audit backlogs of 5–7 years. Mekelle, Adama, and Bahir Dar have
      received clean audit reports for fiscal 2013/14, the first cities to have done so
      since the program started.



                                           17
・       Some 17 ULGs used 75 percent of their annual operations and maintenance
        budgets as specified in their CIPs in 2014. This is above the target of 16
        ULGs for 2014.

・       Over 2.85 million residents (50 percent female) have benefited directly from
        the improved infrastructure and services delivered under the project. They
        are enjoying upgraded roads and drainage systems, access to improved water
        sources and better sanitation facilities, new markets, and solid waste collection
        and disposal services.10

・       An estimated 1.5 million residents in participating ULGs are enjoying
        access to an all-season road within a 500 meter range, due to the ULGDP.
        Some 50 percent of the ULGDP funds were used to construct urban roads,
        primarily cobblestone roads. These are durable and beautify the cities in which
        they are constructed.

48.    Most of the intermediate outcome targets were achieved. Targets for roads and
drainage systems were overestimated in the Project Paper for the ULGDP Additional
Finance, while those for community water points were underestimated. The figures in
the Project Paper were indicative, since at the time the document was prepared, cities
had not presented their full investment plans. The intermediate results are as follows:

Intermediate result 1: Enhanced participatory planning processes

・       All 19 ULGs submitted approved CIPs with evidence of adequate
        participation each year from fiscal 2010/11 to fiscal 2013/14. These reports
        present the cities’ plans for its capital investments each year, and execution of
        the CIPs is a key measure in the APA. They are evidence that cities are
        effectively and responsively engaging citizens in planning to meet service
        delivery priorities.

・       All 19 ULGs increased the number of citizens groups participating in the
        CIP planning process by 85 percent over baseline by fiscal 2012/13.
        However, two cities did not update their CIPs for 2013/14, according to the
        progress report submitted by the government in August 2014, because in the
        final year of the ULGDP they were focusing on completing ongoing sub-projects,
        rather than identifying new ones.

Intermediate result 2: Improved transparency

・       All 19 ULGs disseminated information to the public on budgets (including
        investment plans), expenditures, physical progress of investments, and
        results of bid evaluations and contract awards) during fiscal 2010/11 to

10
     This figure is based on the assumption that all residents of the cities are benefiting from the improved
infrastructure and services. Census data show that about 50 percent of residents in cities are female.

                                                     18
      2013/14. Performance in this area is critical to ensuring that cities are
      transparent and accountable.

Intermediate result 3: Improved budgeting and financial management

・     All 19 ULGs prepared 3-year rolling budgets during fiscal 2010/11 to
      2013/14. Although cities were not able to prepare their final budgets prior to the
      start of the fiscal year due to uncertainties regarding their allocations from IDA,
      all did so as soon as they learned their allocations.

・     All 19 ULGs prepared their annual financial reports on time and as per
      required format during fiscal 2010/11 to 2013/14. The cities submitted these
      to their regional auditors general as soon as they were ready.

・     All 19 ULGs prepared and adopted a revenue enhancement plan each year
      during fiscal 2010/11 to 2013/14. The REPs were meant to help cities increase
      their revenues from various sources to enable them to meet their services
      delivery mandates. The quality of the REPs, although improving during the
      project implementation period, still needs to be enhanced, based on detailed
      analysis of the potential from each source of revenue.

Intermediate result 4: Improved urban infrastructure and service delivery

・     All 19 ULGs submitted infrastructure asset inventories updated annually
      indicating additional assets and condition of existing assets. Support from
      GIZ was especially important in assisting cities prepare their initial AMPs, by
      developing a template, providing training on how to use it, and reviewing and
      commenting on cities’ draft AMPs.

・     Some 870 kilometers of non-rural roads were constructed under the
      ULGDP. This is slightly less than the target presented in the results framework
      for the ULGDP Additional Financing Project Paper of 1,000 kilometers. However,
      the Project Paper noted that the estimates for FY2012–14 were provisional, and
      would be updated as cities’ priorities became clear.

・     Some 647 kilometers of drainage systems were constructed under the
      ULGDP. This is less than the provisional target presented in the results
      framework for the ULGDP Project Paper of 900 kilometers, but still a great
      achievement.

・     Some 131 improved community water points were constructed or
      rehabilitated under the ULGDP. This is far greater than the provisional
      estimate of 10 community water points presented in the Project Paper. The
      original estimate was low because the Bank-financed Urban Water and
      Sanitation Project was financing most water systems in cities. However, this
      project did not have sufficient resources to meet the demand, and cities decided

                                           19
         to use resources available under the ULGDP to finance community water points
         in poor neighbors.

・        About 35,600 people in urban areas were provided with access to
         “Improved Water Sources” under the ULGDP. This compares to the estimate
         in the Project Paper of 2,500. Each community water point serves about 250
         people, so the much higher number of people benefiting from improved water
         services is due to the higher number of connections.

Intermediate result 5: New cities ready to participate in a potential second ULGDP

     ・ Some 26 new cities met the access criteria for participating in the Second
       ULGDP. This is well ahead of the target of 14 new cities. The mobile technical
       assistance teams supported under component 2 of the project were instrumental
       in building the capacity of the new cities to meet the access criteria.

Project Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

49.  Efficiency and cost effectiveness of the roads investments—which absorbed
some 50 percent of ULGDP funds—were satisfactory.

50.     Although the Project Paper did not provide estimates of economic or financial
rates of return of investments—ULGDP was a framework project, and the specific
investments were not known at the time of project preparation—with and without project
scenarios have been calculated for cobblestone roads constructed in nine of the cities
participating in the ULGDP, home to a total of 1.5 million people.11 The calculations are
based on the following:

・        Capital and maintenance costs. A total of US$79.6 million was spent to
         construct 3.7 million square meters of cobblestone roads in these nine towns, for
         a unit cost of about US$22 per square meter. The average unit cost for
         maintenance over the project life is estimated to be US$14.69 per square meter
         (based on Ethiopia’s road fund allocation for gravel road maintenance).

・        Benefits. The main benefits were (a) reductions in the cost of motorized
         transportation (for example, bus fares, haulage fees), (b) value of time saved in
         travel from point A to point B due to faster transit speeds, and (c) reduced vehicle
         operating costs for private vehicles due to improvements in the quality of the
         road.

・        Discount rate. A discount rate of 10.23 percent has been used, which is the
         rate that MoFED uses as a proxy for the opportunity cost of capital in Ethiopia.

11
     These were Axum, Bahirdar, Bishoftu, Dilla, Diredawa, Hawassa, Mekelle, Shashemene, and Sodo.

                                                 20
       This is consistent with the 10–12 percent notional figure used for evaluating Bank
       financed projects.

51.     The main assumptions of the analysis are: (a) the capital costs are incurred
between 2009 and 2014; (b) the lifetime of the roads is 20 years with zero residual
value at the end; (c) maintenance takes place every year on 10 percent of the length of
the road; (d) the total maintenance costs remain constant in real terms over the life of
the roads; (e) the number of vehicles using the roads grows by 7 percent a year for the
next 20 years, due both to increasing populations and to rising incomes; (f) the cost of a
trip by motorized transport is 10 percent lower with the project than without it; (g) travel
time per person is an average of 15 minutes less per day with the project than without it;
and (g) vehicle operating costs for private vehicles are 15 percent lower with the project
than without it.

52.     The table below presents the current estimates of net present value and internal
rate of return for the cobblestone roads projects.

Table 2: Cost benefit analysis for the cobblestone roads projects
Cobblestone roads             Net present value (US$)                          31.1 million
                              Economic rate of return                           20 percent

53.     The cobblestone roads projects generated nonquantified economic benefits,
including benefits to pedestrians of walking on cobblestone roads instead of dirt and
mud pathways. Some 65 percent of trips are estimated to be on foot in the cities
participating in the ULGDP. Substantial benefits also accrue to users of nonmotorized
vehicles, such as horse drawn carts, human-pulled vehicles, and bicycles.
Nonmotorized vehicles are responsible for many of the goods that are moved short
distances within Ethiopian cities.

54.    Other nonquantified benefits include increases in the values of properties that
became more accessible, and reduced costs of repairing roads, structures, and property
arising from the improved drainage systems that were built along the side of the roads.
The total nonquantified benefits are likely to be significant. The cobblestone roads were
constructed primarily in the city centers, and have transformed once hard to reach
neighborhoods into lively business districts.

Cost effectiveness

55.    Cost effectiveness of the investments in cobblestone roads was satisfactory.
The unit costs of the cobblestone roads is considerably lower than of similar sized
asphalt roads, and create similar benefits with lower maintenance costs, according to a
value for money study undertaken by GIZ.




                                            21
Table 3: Cost of cobblestone roads compared with asphalt roads, selected cities
                             Cobblestone Road Cost                 Asphalt Cost
  City
                             (ETB per square meter)            (ETB per square meter)
  Adama                             400–500                            1,430
  Hawassa                             320                              1,090
  Mekelle                             300                              1,000
  Axum                                320                              1,300
Source: ARPEDS CONSULT. 2011. “Assessment of the quality and value for money of investments
undertaken under ULGDP.”

56.     Although cost-effectiveness analyses have not been undertaken for investments
other than the cobblestone roads, due to a lack of data, the procedures implemented by
the cities under the ULGDP are likely to have resulted in adequate value for money of
investments. Thus, priority investments were identified through extensive consultations
with diverse stakeholders. Procurement was through national competitive bidding
procedures to ensure value for money in procurement. Transparency and
accountability were assured through the posting on public notice boards of city budgets,
projects, expenditures, audited accounts. Moreover, governments at all levels maintain
complaints handling mechanisms to allow for citizens to bring suspected cases of fraud
and corruption to the attention of the authorities. Collectively, these procedures provide
reasonable assurance that investments in cities are providing value for money.

Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Satisfactory

57.     Achievement of the objectives of the ULGDP is rated satisfactory. The project’s
objectives, design, and implementation arrangements were and remain highly relevant.
The project achieved its intended outcomes. Except for Addis Ababa, the performance
of all of the ULGDP cities in planning, delivery, and sustained provision of urban
infrastructure and services significantly improved. An estimated 2.85 million urban
residents, 50 percent female, are benefiting from improved roads and drainage, new
bridges, street lights, solid waste services, markets, and other urban infrastructure
services. People are also benefiting from more responsive, transparent, accountable,
and effective urban administrations. Some 19 cities have cleared their audit backlogs.
This is a major achievement, as at the start of the program, all cities had audit backlogs
of 5–7 years. All 19 cities in fiscal 2013 received audit reports that were qualified with
minor comments. This contrasts with the situation in previous years, when a number of
cities received adverse or disclaimer audit reports. Mekelle has received a clean audit
report for fiscal 2014, the first city to have done so since the program started.

58.    Efficiency and cost effectiveness of investments in the cobblestone roads were
satisfactory. The roads projects in nine cities supported under the ULGDP generated a
net present value of US$31.1 million and an economic rate of return of 20 percent.
Benefits in the other ULGDP cities are likely to be similar. Unit costs of the cobblestone
roads were much lower than those of asphalt roads in Ethiopia, but generate the same


                                            22
types of benefits. High relevance and satisfactory achievement of objectives justifies an
overall outcome rating of satisfactory for the operation.

Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

59.      The ULGDP did not have a specific poverty, gender, or social development
focus. However, the project generated over 300,000 permanent and temporary jobs in
micro and small enterprises, most for people who had been previously unemployed.
Most of the jobs were related to the construction of cobblestone roads, a labor-intensive
activity involving chiseling, preparation of road beds, and paving. Many of the micro
and small enterprises formed to work on the cobblestone roads put aside a portion of
their income to invest in alternative businesses to prepare for the time when demand for
cobblestone road workers diminished. By the time of the ULGDP’s closing, many
former cobblestone workers had opened restaurants or established other enterprises,
according to city officials. Nearly, all the resources used for the cobblestone roads
remained in the community, as the labor and most of materials came from the local
community and the surrounding areas. The urban infrastructure itself is
disproportionately benefiting the poor, who now have access to jobs and services at
lower cost and time than previously. The effort cities have made to involve citizens in
prioritizing investments and in disseminating information to the public are expected to
lead to greater transparency and accountability of the city administrations to citizens,
and to promote social development more broadly.

60.    The project also provided important benefits for women. About one-third of the
jobs generated in cobblestone construction were taken by women, many of whom had
not been previously employed. Women interviewed during the implementation of the
project mentioned the income earned as being critically important to allow them to pay
school fees, meet medical expenses, and the like. Women also played important roles
in the participatory planning process. In 2011, in seven cities, women made up more
than 50 percent of the participants in the community forums.12 In 2012, in 12 cities
women comprised more than 50 percent of the participants and in five, women made up
more than 75 percent of participants.

Institutional Change/Strengthening

61.     The project helped to bring about key institutional reforms intended to increase
the capacity of the participating ULGs to effectively and efficiently deliver services.
Specifically, it supported improvements in the areas of participatory planning, financial
management, revenue mobilization, operations and maintenance, transparency and
accountability, contract management and delivery of services. These far-reaching
reforms are already resulting in improved services for residents and businesses of the
participating cities.


12
     This information is from the APAs prepared in 2011 and 2012.

                                                  23
Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):

62.    The project did not result in any significant unintended consequences.

4.     Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Negligible to low.

63.    The risk to development outcome is rated low or negligible. The participating
ULGs have demonstrated their commitment to deliver on their mandates by consistently
improving their performance throughout the project’s life. Top officials of MUDHCo
have also declared their support for cities’ development through the use of performance
grants, coupled with targeted capacity building support. The Second ULGDP provides
grants to participating ULGs on the basis of their performance through the PforR
instrument. This new project also contains significant support for capacity building.

64.    The benefits of the capacity building support of the project are likely to be
sustained, since the project supported strengthening of the existing government
structure. Despite some staff turnover, most of the staff trained and mentored under the
project in participatory planning, financial management, asset management, revenue
mobilization, environmental and social safeguards, and monitoring and evaluation
remain in the city administrations. The Second ULGDP will continue to support capacity
building for the cities, based on their demands.

65.     Sustainability of the infrastructure and services financed under the ULGDP is
likely. A performance measure in the Second ULGDP is that cities derive their
operations and maintenance budgets from their AMPs and that they utilize at least 80
percent of their planned operations and maintenance budget by the end of the financial
year. This provides a strong incentive for them to carry out their required operations
and maintenance.

66.     Sustainability of cities’ infrastructure and services will also depend on their ability
to mobilize increasing amounts of municipal revenue. The Second ULGDP includes a
performance measure in this area, which will reward cities for preparing up-dated REP
that include: (a) city analysis of the previous year’s revenue performance with detailed
analyses of each main source of revenue, including discussion of its revenue potential,
and (b) city strategies for revenue enhancement. Cities will also receive points in the
annual performance assessment for increasing their municipal revenues over the
previous year, with the number of points depending on the percentage increase
achieved. This performance measure related to revenue mobilization is expected to
provide a strong incentive for cities to increase their revenues at a rate that allows them
to cover their costs for operations and maintenance and to finance capital investments.

67.   The only concern is that at the time of the project’s closing, a number of
investments financed under the ULGDP were not complete or were not yet operational.
These include the traffic control center in Mekelle, the cultural center in Hawassa,

                                              24
markets in Bahir Dar and Arba Minch, abattoirs in Hawassa and Jimma, the botanical
garden in Addis, and others. Some completed projects are not operating at full capacity
(the market in Bishoftu) and some are not operating at all (the market in Bahir Dar).
MUDHCo has prepared an emergency implementation plan aimed at making all
facilities fully operational as soon as possible. MUDHCo also requested from cities
information on how much additional funds are needed, the sources of funds, the
timetable for putting facilities into operation, and the business plans for facilities.
Funding to complete the facilities and to put them into operation is available under the
Second ULGDP. The Bank will follow up with the cities to ensure that the investments
are made operational and deliver their intended benefits. In general, the Bank’s
continuing engagement with the cities under the Second ULGDP will help ensure that
they continue to strengthen their capacity to effectively deliver urban infrastructure and
services.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank Performance

Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory.

68.      The Bank’s overall performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory.
The Bank’s performance in identification was satisfactory. The Bank had built a strong
relationship with MUDHCo and with the 19 cities participating in the CBDSD during the
life of that project. Recognizing the importance of providing long-term support for cities,
the Bank agreed to prepare a follow-on project to the CBDSD, but with a different
design that would promote learning-by-doing through the use of performance grants. In
addition to lessons learned under the CBDSD, the project’s design reflected experience
with the German development bank-financed Urban Development Fund, and with
experiences in other countries with performance grant systems.

69.    The Bank’s performance in preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The
project’s implementation plan and operational manual had been reviewed and cleared.
Procedures for management of environmental and social safeguards had been agreed.
Assessments of cities’ capacity for handling procurement and financial management in
accordance with Bank requirements had been carried out, and programs for
strengthening capacity out into place. A comprehensive results framework had been
prepared, with indicators covering all results areas and baseline and target values.
Arrangements for monitoring and reporting had been agreed. Appraisal of
implementation arrangements was satisfactory with agreements reached on the roles
and responsibilities of MUDHCo, MoFED, regional entities, and ULGs.




                                            25
Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory.

70.    Bank performance in supervision was satisfactory. Supervision was thorough
throughout the implementation of the ULGDP. Although the project has had two task
team leaders—one from identification until mid-2011, and the other from mid-2011 until
the project closed—the transition was seamless, because the second team leader had
served as a co-team leader from the beginning. Both team leaders were based in Addis
Ababa, which enabled them to provide day-to-day support to MUDHCo and the cities.

71.    The Bank fielded some 12 implementation support missions during the project’s
six years of implementation. Missions took place two times a year. Missions lasted
about two weeks each and typically comprised eight or more members, including
foreign and local consultants with expertise in urban development, environmental and
social safeguards, monitoring and evaluation, procurement, and financial management.
As most of the team members were based in Addis or in the region, the Bank was able
to provide constant support on project issues.

72.    Aide memoires were of high quality, thoroughly covering all key issues and
providing practical recommendations on how to address challenges. They routinely
reported on performance of cities in each results area, progress towards the PDO
outcome targets, and performance of financial management, procurement, and
compliance with safeguards. Once issued, the aide memoires also summarized the
findings of the annual performance assessments and reported on allocations to be
made to cities for the following financial year.

73.     The Bank team responded proactively to challenges as soon as they arose and
tried to find effective solutions to them. For example, when cities expressed confusion
about how to ensure value for money in contracting small firms to construct cobblestone
roads, the Bank team worked closely with the government to develop the cobblestone
works procurement manual. When concerns arose on the environmental management
of quarry sites, the Bank team assisted the government in preparing the quarry site
rehabilitation and management manual.

74.    The Bank team consistently rated project performance indicators realistically. It
carefully reviewed both progress towards development and implementation
performance during each mission, and generally provided a justification for the ratings in
the aide memoires. The Bank team also played a key role in ensuring that GIZ’s
support for capacity building of urban administrations was well-aligned with ULGDP’s
objectives, by meeting with GIZ regularly, including the teams in cities and at
headquarters in Addis Ababa.

75.   Noting the strong performance of the project, the Bank team agreed with the
government on a doubling of project resources through the Additional Financing that
was approved in July 2011. Preparation of the Additional Financing package was

                                           26
exceptionally quick, requiring only six months from concept review stage to Board
approval. The project won a Vice Presidential Unit award in 2011, recognizing the
achievements of the Bank team.

Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Satisfactory.

76.    The Bank’s overall performance was satisfactory. In lending, the Bank worked
closely with the implementing entities to design and prepare a project that built on the
results achieved under the CBDSD, and drew on international experience with the use
of performance grants in bringing about institutional change. Quality at entry was
satisfactory.

77.     In implementation support, the Bank played a critical role in helping cities
overcome capacity constraints and proceed with implementation. Support was
especially important in the areas of environmental and social safeguards and
procurement. Both were new areas for cities, and complying with World Bank
requirements proved challenging for many. The Bank worked in close collaboration with
GIZ throughout implementation, which helped to ensure high complementarity between
the ULGDP and the GIZ-funded Urban Governance and Decentralization Program. The
Bank team responded to the government’s request for Additional Financing, and quickly
prepared the new Credit. This provided an opportunity to restructure the project, based
on early implementation experience. The project closed on time and all funds were
utilized. Implementation support missions regularly reviewed compliance with fiduciary,
environmental, and social safeguards. The Bank responded proactively and effectively
to find solutions to challenges. A rating of satisfactory for ensuring quality at entry and a
rating of satisfactory for supervision justify an overall rating of satisfactory for Bank
performance.

5.2    Borrower Performance

Government Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

78.    The government’s performance in implementation was satisfactory. Although
with a delay, MoFED complied with the two effectiveness conditions that were related to
financial management, appointing a qualified accountant to handle financial
management issues for ULGDP, and providing training on Bank financial management
procedures to all staff involved in project financial management. MoFED played an
important role by ensuring that allocations to cities were made on time and in
accordance with the agreements between the Bank and MUDHCo based on the
findings of the APA. MoFED also performed effectively in preparing the quarterly
financial management reports, based on cities’ inputs, and submitting them to the Bank.


                                             27
Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

79.     The performance of MUDHCo was satisfactory. MUDHCo quickly adopted the
project implementation plan and operational manual, meeting its condition of
effectiveness. It led preparation of a capacity assessment of project implementing
agencies and the program of support to build capacity of the agencies, thereby meeting
the covenant related to these activities. It appointed a strong team in its Urban
Governance Capacity Building Bureau to oversee project implementation, which
included a coordinator, engineers, and specialists in environmental and social
safeguards and in monitoring and evaluation. It provided day-to-day support to cities,
compiled the quarterly progress reports based on the information provided by regional
administrations, and provided training and technical assistance on the demand of cities.
It also procured goods on behalf of cities—such as skip loaders and liquid waste
exhausters—whose costs exceeded the procurement threshold set for cities. MUDHCo
also procured the services of the firms to carry out the APAs. Throughout the project
implementation period, the minister and the state minister demonstrated a high level of
commitment to the project, hosting all the mission’s wrap-up meetings and following up
on the issues identified in the aide memoirs. This commitment was critical in keeping
the project moving towards its objectives.

80.    Although MUDHCo performed satisfactorily in other areas, it performance in
procurement was a notable weakness. Delays in procuring the services of the APA firm
slowed disbursements of funds to cities which in turn undermined the ability of the cities
to execute their CIPs as planned. Under the Second ULGDP, MUDHCo itself will
receive funds on the basis of its performance in specified areas, including that APAs are
procured and completed on time. This change in program design is expected to provide
a strong incentive to MUDHCo to improve performance.

81.     The performance of regional government was marginally satisfactory. The
regional bureaus of works and urban development were expected to (a) coordinate
implementation within their respective regions, (b) ensure compliance of ULGs with the
project implementation plan, operational manual, and safeguards frameworks, (c)
provide technical assistance, (iv) facilitate ULGs’ access to capacity building assistance,
(d) recommend reallocations of performance grants, and (e) review and consolidate
ULGs’ annual action plans and all reports for submission to the MUDHCo. However,
the ULGDP did not provide them with any resources with which to fulfill these
responsibilities. The regional bureaus of works ultimately played a limited role in
supervising and guiding cities, which involved primarily compiling the ULGs annual
action plans and the quarterly project progress. Other regional entities provided support
for the ULGs. These included (a) the regional environmental protection agencies which
played the key role in ensuring cities’ compliance with the project’s environment and
social safeguards frameworks, and (b) the offices of the regional auditor general, which
performed most of the audits of cities financial accounts. The regional bureaus of
finance and economic development played a key role in disbursing regional
contributions to the cities and in preparing and submitting consolidated regional
                                            28
quarterly and annual interim financial reports. However, some regions did not always
provide their full budgeted allocations to cities. Moreover, they did not provide adequate
support to the cities in preparation of the interim financial reports, resulting in
inconsistencies between the data presented in the cities’ reports and the regional
bureaus’ reports. Under the Second ULGDP, several regional government entities will
receive funds on the basis of their performance in key areas. Thus, the regional
environmental protection agencies will receive funds if they carry out the safeguards
reviews/audits of ULGs in their jurisdictions before the start of the annual performance
assessment each year. The offices of the regional auditor general will obtain funds if
they carry out audits of ULGs’ financial reports by January 7 of each financial year.
Regional revenue authorities will be eligible for funds if they support ULGs’ efforts to
generate revenue. These changes in the program design are expected to both provide
the regional entities with the resources they need to support cities and to offer the
incentives to do so.

82.     The performance of the ULGs was satisfactory. All 19 appointed a project
coordination team, headed by a coordinator. All but Addis Ababa worked hard to
achieve their targets as laid out in the Project Paper and further elaborated in the
checklist developed for the APA. As shown through the achievement of the results
indicators, all cities made significant improvements in their participatory planning,
revenue mobilization, asset management, budgeting, financial management, investment
planning, procurement, project execution, environment and social management,
operations and maintenance, and transparency and accountability during the project’s
life. Cities invested in infrastructure and services—roads and drainage systems, street
lights, walkways, water supply, solid waste management services, markets, and public
parks and greenery, transforming them into desirable places to live, work, and visit.
Although Addis Ababa city administration did not perform as well as the other cities with
respect to institutional strengthening, by the end of the project it had invested in
important infrastructure, including cobblestone roads in residential neighborhoods, solid
waste transfer platforms, and a botanical garden and open-air theater, which will
contribute to the livability of the city for years to come.

Justification of Rating for Overall Recipient Performance

Rating: Satisfactory

83.    The overall performance of the recipient was satisfactory. MoFED carried out its
responsibilities effectively. MUDHCo generally supplied the support that cities required
in the areas of engineering, safeguards, financial management, and monitoring and
evaluation, and others. Despite slow procurement, overall the ministry performed
satisfactorily. Although performance of the regional governments fell below
expectations, key regional entities provided the necessary support to cities, specifically
the regional environmental protection agencies and the offices of the auditor general.
Nearly all the cities performed above expectations, with many achieving scores in the
APAs that warranted accelerated provision of funds. This ultimately led to rapid
disbursement of the project funds and preparation of an additional credit, doubling
resources available to cities.
                                            29
6.   Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

・    Support for large primate cities should come through a dedicated project,
     rather than through a project including multiple secondary cities. Funds
     available to Addis Ababa under the ULGDP—US$20 million over the project
     life—were too little to encourage Addis Ababa to change its institutional behavior.
     Under the ULGDP, Addis Ababa received only about US$2 per capita per year—
     and a tiny fraction of its overall revenues—while the other cities (excluding Dire
     Dawa) received an average of about US$21 per capita per year. The Addis
     Ababa city government therefore had little incentive to assign staff to coordinate
     the project. In addition, staff who were eventually assigned worked under the
     direction of the city’s bureau of finance and development, rather than under the
     mayor or city manager. This limited their effectiveness in coordinating the
     activities of the various agencies involved. Moreover, various authorities, such
     as the water and sanitation authority and the roads authority, are responsible for
     much of the city’s infrastructure. This makes coordination much more
     challenging than in smaller cities that can themselves take responsibility for these
     types of infrastructure. As a result, Addis Ababa’s score in the annual
     performance assessment was satisfactory only twice since the inception of the
     project, each time with relatively low scores. As the institutional, infrastructure,
     and financial needs of Addis Ababa are distinctly different from other smaller
     ULGs, the program design was not appropriate for Addis Ababa. Reflecting this
     lesson, Addis Ababa is not included in the Second ULGDP. A project focused on
     just Addis Ababa would better meet the needs of the city.

・    Including regional governmental entities and MUDHCo within the
     performance grant system can encourage them to provide the support
     ULGs require. The ULGDP did not provide funds or incentives to regional
     entities. As a result, the regional government did not support cities as expected.
     Without additional funds, the regional entities simply did not have the capacity to
     audit cities financial reports on time or to support cities efforts to increase
     municipal revenues. Learning from experience, the Second ULGDP provides
     performance grants to key regional entities to encourage them to take active part
     in the capacity building support, facilitation of cities’ own-source revenue, social
     and environmental safeguards, audits, and backstopping support as well as
     mentoring and monitoring. While MUDHCo did receive funds under the ULGDP,
     the allocation was not linked to performance. Providing funds on the basis of
     performance may focus the ministry’s attention on ways to improve its
     performance, particularly in the area of procurement. Reflecting this lesson, the
     Second ULGDP includes MUDHCo in the performance grant system to
     encourage it to procure and complete the APAs, independent procurement
     audits, and value for money audits on time.

・    Municipal own-source revenue generation requires focused attention to
     ensure that cities can continue to invest in and maintain infrastructure and

                                          30
    services. Although all cities prepared revenue enhancement plans, most did not
    do so based on a thorough analysis of the potential of various revenue sources,
    and instead simply projected the revenue based on the figures achieved in the
    previous year. Moreover, regional administrations often provided cities with
    targets for revenues based on unrealistic assumptions of how quickly cities could
    generate revenues. Recognizing that cities need focused assistance to develop
    and implement revenue enhancement plans, the Second ULGDP includes a
    minimum condition and a performance measure in the APA linked to municipal
    revenue generation. It is expected that many cities will seek assistance from the
    advice of consultants in how to prepare revenue enhancement plans based on
    revenue potential and the assistance of the regional revenue authorities on
    issues of revenue collection and administration. As the Second ULGDP also
    includes a performance grant to the regional revenue authorities, it is expected
    that they will support cities in this area.

・   Continuous capacity building support is critical to enable cities to
    constantly improve their abilities. Such support is best provided by a variety
    of approaches. GIZ’s experience showed that having dedicated teams of
    specialists based in the regions is highly effective in responding quickly to cities’
    needs. Experience under the ULGDP demonstrated that offering degree courses
    in urban management through the Ethiopian Civil Service University can create a
    cadre of professionals who are able to contribute to urban management. Short
    courses in a variety of areas can help staff strengthen specific skills. Under the
    Second ULGDP, all these approaches to capacity building are being used.

・   Information from the APAs should be used to adjust the project design to
    achieve its intended results. The APAs provide important information about
    whether the assumptions underpinning the project design were valid or need to
    be revised. For example, the project design assumed that the APAs would be
    completed in November each year, in time to feed into cities’ budget preparation
    processes. However, challenges in procurement and contract management
    resulted in the APAs never being finalized until August or September and cities’
    allocations announced until well after the financial year had begun. This is in turn
    led to delays in cities’ seeking approval for their annual procurement plans, and
    thus in the execution of activities for the financial year. The Bank and the
    government agreed in 2012 to reduce the threshold for adequate utilization of the
    CIP budget from 80 percent to 65 percent to allow 18 cities to receive a higher
    allocation, rather than just seven if the original target had been maintained; in
    2013 the score for utilization of the CIP budget was included with the other seven
    performance measures to determine cities’ scores. Project teams should draw
    on the detailed information on performance contained in the APAs to learn from
    experience and revise the project’s performance targets, if warranted to enable
    the project to achieve its objectives.

・   Gradually reducing IDA’s contributions for the performance over time
    promotes sustainability of the government’s program. Under the Second

                                         31
      ULGDP, IDA will contribute only 40 percent of the performance grants going to
      cities that participated in the first ULGDP. The remainder will come from the
      regional states (30 percent) and the cities themselves (30 percent). By contrast,
      IDA will contribute 70 percent of the resources for cities in the newly participating
      regions. These regions will contribute 20 percent and the cities in these regions
      will contribute 10 percent. Newly participating cities in the regions previously
      benefiting from the program will contribute 20 percent. As the regions will
      contribute 30 percent, IDA will provide 50 percent of the funding for the
      performance grants for these cities. It is expected that regional and city
      contributions will gradually replace IDA financing as cities grow and develop their
      own-source revenue streams.

・     Project teams should consider the design of a follow-on project in
      formulating the current project, to ensure that the current project lays the
      foundation for the next phase of support. The Bank and the government
      recognized that development of urban local governments in Ethiopia would
      require support of many years, and that each project should build on the capacity
      built under the previous one. Thus, the CBDSD project provided a solid
      foundation for the first ULGDP, which itself offered a strong basis for the Second
      ULGDP.

7.    Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Borrower/implementing agencies

See Annex 6.

Cofinanciers

      None.

Other partners and stakeholders

      None.




                                           32
                        Annex 1: Project Costs and Financing

(a)     Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

Table 4: ULGDP Costs and Financing by Component (US$ million)
      Component          Original   Changes         Revised          Actual       Percentage
                          cost         with          Cost            /Latest          of
                                    Additional                      Estimate       Appraisal
                                     Finance                          (US$
                                                                    million)
1. Performance              203        200            403              407          100%
   grants
2. Implementation             3           6             9               9           100%
   support
3. Unallocated                2          2              4               0
Total project costs         208        208            416             416           100%

(b)     Financing

Table 5: ULGDP Costs and Financing by Component (US$ million)
                     Original
                                    AF Appraisal       Actual/Latest
 Source of          Appraisal                                                  Percentage of
                                      Estimate           Estimate
  Funds             Estimate                                                     Appraisal
                                    (US$ million)      (US$ million)
                  (US$ million)
Government              58              116                   116                 100%
IDA                    150              300                   300                 100%




                                          33
                           Annex 2: Outputs by Component

Component 1: Performance grants

In addition to the items listed in section 3.2, the following outputs were achieved under
the ULGDP.

Roads, bridges, and streetlights

・      Bridges (20)
・      Kilometers of street lights (61)

Public facilities

・      Markets upgraded (5)
・      New markets constructed (5)
・      Micro and small enterprise cluster developments (15)
・      Abattoirs (8)
・      Bus stations (3)
・      Youth centers (1)
・      Cultural centers (2)
・      Traffic management center (1)
・      Blocks of public toilets (40)
・      Schools (2)

Solid and liquid waste management

・      Vacuum trucks (8)
・      Excavators (2)
・      Skip loaders (6)
・      Side loader (1)
・      Solid waste tractors with trailers (10)
・      Transfer stations (2)
・      Vending platforms (239)
・      Sanitary landfills (4)
・      Wastewater treatment facilities (called liquid waste treatment sites in Ethiopia)
       (4).

Environmental and disaster management

・      City parks and greenery projects (19 cities, including the botanical garden in
       Addis Ababa)
・      Constructed wetland (1)
・      Landslide prevention works (2)
・      Fire trucks (7).

                                            34
Studies

・     Drainage masterplans (3)
・     Lakeshore development, Hawassa (1)
・     Integrated solid waste management (2)
・     Urban design (1)

Component 2: Implementation support

・     Four APAs were completed and their results used to determine allocations to
      cities for the following financial year (2010, 2011, 2012, 2013)
・     One APA was completed to determine eligibility and allocations to ULGs under
      the Second ULGDP, 2014
・     National Urban Development Strategy, 2014
・     Three environmental and social audits.
・     Final Evaluation of ULGDP, 2015
・     Baseline survey report
・     Cobblestone works procurement manual
・     Quarry site rehabilitation and management manual.




                                        35
                                Annex 3: Economic Analysis

Economic Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)

Efficiency

84.     Efficiency and cost effectiveness of the roads investments—which absorbed
some 50 percent of ULGDP funds—were satisfactory. Although the Project Paper did
not provide estimates of economic or financial rates of return of investments—ULGDP
was a framework project, and the specific investments were not known at the time of
project preparation—with and without project scenarios have been calculated for
cobblestone roads constructed in nine of the cities participating in the ULGDP, home to
a total of 1.5 million people.13 The calculations are based on the following:

・       Capital and maintenance costs. A total of US$79.6 million was spent to
        construct 3.7 million square meters of cobblestone roads in these nine towns, for
        a unit cost of about US$22 per square meter. The average unit cost for
        maintenance over the project life is estimated to be US$14.69 per square meter
        (based on Ethiopia’s road fund allocation for gravel road maintenance).

・       Benefits. The main benefits were (a) reductions in the cost of motorized
        transportation (for example, bus fares, haulage fees), (b) value of time saved in
        travel from point A to point B due to faster transit speeds, and (c) reduced vehicle
        operating costs for private vehicles due to improvements in the quality of the
        road.

・       Discount rate. A discount rate of 10.23 percent has been used, which is the
        rate that MoFED uses as a proxy for the opportunity cost of capital in Ethiopia,
        which is consistent with the 10–12 percent notional figure used for evaluating
        Bank financed projects.

85.     The main assumptions of the analysis are: (a) the capital costs are incurred
between 2009 and 2014; (b) the lifetime of the roads is 20 years with zero residual
value at the end; (c) maintenance takes place every year on 10 percent of the length of
the road; (d) the total maintenance costs remain constant in real terms over the life of
the roads; (e) the number of vehicles using the roads grows by 7 percent a year for the
next 20 years, due both to increasing populations and to rising incomes; (f) the cost of a
trip by motorized transport is 10 percent lower with the project than without it; (g) travel
time per person is an average of 15 minutes less per day with the project than without it;
and (g) vehicle operating costs for private vehicles are 15 percent lower with the project
than without it.

86.     The table below presents the current estimates of net present value and internal
rate of return for the cobblestone roads projects.

13
     These were Axum, Bahirdar, Bishoftu, Dilla, Diredawa, Hawassa, Mekelle, Shashemene, and Sodo.

                                                 36
Cost benefit analysis for the cobblestone roads projects
Cobblestone roads             Net present value (US$)                         31.1 million
                              Economic rate of return                          20 percent

87.     The cobblestone roads projects generated nonquantified economic benefits,
including benefits to pedestrians of walking on cobblestone roads instead of dirt and
mud pathways. Some 65 percent of trips are estimated to be on foot in the cities
participating in the ULGDP. Substantial benefits also accrue to users of nonmotorized
vehicles, such as horse drawn carts, human-pulled vehicles, and bicycles.
Nonmotorized vehicles are responsible for many of the goods that are moved short
distances within Ethiopian cities.

88.   Other benefits include increases in the values of properties that became more
accessible, and reduced costs of repairing roads, structures, and property arising from
the improved drainage systems that were built along the side of the roads. The total
nonquantified benefits are likely to be significant. The cobblestone roads were
constructed primarily in the city centers, and have transformed once hard to reach
neighborhoods into lively business districts.

Cost effectiveness

89.    Cost effectiveness of the investments in solid waste services was satisfactory.
The unit costs of the cobblestone roads is considerably lower than of similar sized
asphalt roads, and create similar benefits with lower maintenance costs, according to a
value for money study undertaken by GIZ.

Cost of cobblestone roads compared with asphalt roads, selected cities
                             Cobblestone Road Cost                 Asphalt Cost
  City
                             (ETB per square meter)            (ETB per square meter)
  Adama                             400–500                            1,430
  Hawassa                             320                              1,090
  Mekelle                             300                              1,000
  Axum                                320                              1,300
Source: ARPEDS CONSULT. 2011. “Assessment of the quality and value for money of investments
undertaken under ULGDP.”

Although cost-effectiveness analyses have not been undertaken for investments other
than the cobblestone roads, due to a lack of data, the procedures implemented by the
cities under the ULGDP are likely to have resulted in adequate value for money of
investments. Thus, priority investments were identified through extensive consultations
with diverse stakeholders. Procurement was through national competitive bidding
procedures to ensure value for money in procurement. Transparency and
accountability were assured through the posting on public notice boards of city budgets,
projects, expenditures, audited accounts. Moreover, governments at all levels maintain

                                            37
complaints handling mechanisms to allow for citizens to bring suspected cases of fraud
and corruption to the attention of the authorities. Collectively, these procedures provide
reasonable assurance that investments in cities are providing value for money.




                                            38
  Annex 4: Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a)     Task Team members

                                                                                Responsibility/
         Names                               Title                 Unit
                                                                                  Specialty

Lending and Supervision

Rumana Huque              Senior Urban Specialist                GSURR    TTL
Abebaw Alemayehu          Senior Urban Specialist                GSURR    TTL
Wendy Schreiber Ayres     Senior Economist (consultant)          GSURR    ICR primary author
Wendwosen Feleke          Operations Officer                     GWADR    Economic analysis
Shimelis Woldehawariat
                          Senior Procurement Specialist          GGODR    Procurement
Badisso
                          Financial Management Specialist
Lillian Brenda Namutebi                                          GGODR    Financial management
                          (consultant)
                          Senior Financial Management
Abiy Demissie Belay                                              GGODR    Financial management
                          Specialist
Antoine V. Lema           Senior Social Safeguards Specialist    GSURR    Social safeguards
                                                                          Environmental
Asferachew Abate Abebe Senior Environmental Specialist           GENDR
                                                                          Safeguards
                          Senior Public Sector Management                 Public sector
Berhanu Legesse Ayane                                            GGODR
                          Specialist                                      management
Onur Ozlu                 Senior Urban Economist                 GSURR    Project implementation
Binyam Bedelu             Senior Procurement Specialist          GGODR    Procurement
Carolyn Winter            Safeguards Specialist                           Social safeguards
Chukwudi H. Okafor        Senior Social Safeguards Specialist     GSURR   Social safeguards
David De Groot            Senior Urban Specialist (consultant)      --
                                                                          Project design and
Dinkneh Tefera            Urban Specialist                        GSURR
                                                                          implementation
Duangrat Laohapakakul     Senior Counsel                          LEGCF   Legal advice
Edeltraut Gilgan-Hunt     Safeguards Specialist                           Social safeguards
Eyerusalem Fasika         Operations officer (consultant)                 M&E design
Ian Leslie Campbell       Safeguards Specialist (consultant)      GSPDR   Safeguards
Jeffrey S. Racki          Consultant                              GSURR   Project design
Jonathan David Pavluk     Senior Counsel                          LEGOP   Legal advice
                          Financial Management Specialist
Meron Tadesse Techane                                             GGODR   Financial management
                          (consultant)


                                                     39
Mulat Negash Tegegn       Team Member                                       Program assistance
                                                                            Environmental
Nina Chee                 Lead Environmental Specialist          OPSOR
                                                                            safeguards
Richard Olowo             Lead Procurement Specialist            GCFDR      Procurement
Roderick M. Babijes       Program Assistant                      GSURR      Program assistance
Tesfaye Ayele             Senior Procurement Specialist          GGODR      Procurement
Wuleta Giday              Senior Program Assistant               AFCE3      Program assistance
Yalemzewud Simachew       Social Safeguards Specialist
                                                                 GCFDR      Social safeguards
Tiruneh                   (consultant)
Yodit Teamir Rezene       Team Assistant                         AFCE3      Team assistance
Yohannes Fisseha          Infrastructure Engineer                GWADR      Engineering



(b)     Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)

                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
      Stage of Project Cycle             No. of Staff Weeks               US$ Thousands
                                                                  (including travel and consultant
                                                                                costs)
Lending
            Fiscal 2008                              54.25                        213,719
            Fiscal 2011
                          TOTAL:
Supervision/ICR
          Fiscal 2009                                57.99                        154.721
          Fiscal 2010                                80.51                        215,711
          Fiscal 2011                                52.08                        196,328
          Fiscal 2012                                66.81                        217,280
          Fiscal 2013                                65.59                        126.413
          Fiscal 2014                                67.05                        118,779
          Fiscal 2015                                20.44                         47,869
                          TOTAL                     464.72                      1,009,967




                                                    40
                           Annex 5: Summary of Borrower’s ICR

                                  Summary of Borrower’s ICR

The ULGDP was implemented in 19 cities in Ethiopia during the period from Ethiopian
fiscal year (EFY) 2001 (2008/9) to EFY 2006 (2013/14). The project became effective
on November 10, 2008 and closed on December 31, 2014. This Final Completion
Report has been compiled by the Ministry of Urban Development, Housing and
Construction to show the project achievements and evaluate its successes/failures as
well as provide lessons for the future. The Ministry also contracted independent
evaluation consultants on whose report14 the Ministry has drawn some of its findings
and conclusions.

ULGDP was designed to support the government’s Urban Development Program and
Urban Good Governance Program. The specific development objective of the project
was to support improved performance in the planning, delivery and sustained
provision of priority municipal services and infrastructure by urban local
governments.

The project had two components

Component 1, Performance Grants: Through this component, grants were provided to
eligible urban local governments (ULGs) to promote positive change in their overall
institutional and organizational performance.

Component 2, Implementation Support: Only a small amount of IDA funds from this
project was utilized for implementation support as the major capacity building activities
were expected to be financed through PSCAP and other programs that were ongoing at
the time.

In regard to achievement of the project development objective (PDO) and indicators,
     ・ Four of five indicators were achieved or exceeded by the end of the project
       period. They include: operation and maintenance (17 of 15 target cities); timely
       qualified/unqualified audits (19 of 18 target cities); direct project beneficiaries (2.8
       million of which 50 percent female) as per target; and people with access to all
       season roads within a 500 meter range (1.5 million) as per target.
     ・ The objective on revenue enhancement targets was not achieved, where only 10
       of the targeted 19 cities managed to meet 85 percent of their revenue targets.

Based on the above evidence and performance on the indicators, it can be concluded
that the PDO has been achieved.
With respect to project outcomes, the overall performance of the cities on all the
indicators has been above average and better than expected. Based on the evidence

14
     Final Implementation Completion and Results Report. IPE Global Pvt Ltd. (India). March 2015.

                                                  41
below and performance on the indicators, it can be reasonably concluded that the
project outcome indicators have largely been achieved.
・     Enhanced participatory planning process: All 19 cities met the target of
      submitting approved CIPs with evidence of adequate participation. By the end of
      the project period, 17 cities achieved 85 percent increase over the baseline in the
      number of citizens groups participating in the CIP planning process.
・     Improved transparency: During the project years and at the end of the project
      period, all 19 cities achieved the target of disseminating information to the public
      on budgets (including investment plans), expenditures, physical progress of
      investments, and results of bid evaluations and contract awards. Such
      information was not disseminated before the project and is therefore a big
      improvement in transparency and public engagement.
・     Improved budgeting and financial management: During the project years and
      at the end of the project period, all 19 cities achieved the target of preparing 3-
      year rolling budgets and annual financial reports, as well as preparing and
      adopting a revenue enhancement plan. Before the project, cities prepared only a
      one year budget. The project introduced ULG revenue enhancement plans and
      have contributed to increased city revenues as well as improving revenue
      planning and collection efficiency.
・     Improved urban infrastructure and service delivery: All cities submitted
      annual infrastructure asset inventories indicating additional assets and condition
      of existing assets, and through the project increased their infrastructure assets
      and improved service delivery. At total of 853 kilometers of roads (95 percent of
      target) and 647 kilometers of drainage systems (78 percent of target) were
      constructed. These projects contributed to, or improved, access to markets,
      businesses, workplaces, homes and other service areas for citizens in the 19
      cities. A total of 131 community water points were constructed or rehabilitated
      against a target of 10. The project provided 35,600 people with access to
      improved water sources as compared to a target of 2,500. A total of 233
      improved latrines were constructed under the project. All these water and
      sanitation projects are known to contribute to better hygiene conditions and
      health outcomes.
・     New cities ready to participate in a potential second ULGDP: Access criteria
      for ULGDP 1 were met by 26 cities, surpassing the target of 11 cities by EFY
      2006. The new 26 cities will be participating in ULGDP 2 which started in July
      2014 (EFY 2007). Their performance, as assessed by the 2nd Annual
      Performance Assessment, has been quite impressive and on some performance
      measures are doing better than some of the initial 19 cities.

The Ministry has also concluded that the overall performance of the 19 cities in the four
Annual Performance Assessments (APAs) was better than expected in that:

・     1st APA, EFY 2001: 13 of 19 cities qualified for accelerated allocation for EFY
      2003. All other cities received their full annual allocation and there were no
      suspensions.


                                           42
・     2nd APA, EFY 2002: 17 of the 19 cities qualified for accelerated allocation for
      EFY 2004. The two cities that did not qualify for accelerated allocation were
      Arbaminch which qualified for full allocation and Addis Ababa, which was a
      special case.
・     3rd APA, EFY 2003: 13 of the 19 cities qualified for accelerated allocation for
      EFY 2005. Four cities qualified for their full allocation. Dire Dawa was suspended
      for failing to utilize 65 percent of CIP budget. Addis Ababa remained a special
      case.
・     4th APA, EFY 2004: 14 of the 19 cities qualified for accelerated allocation for EFY
      2006. Four cities qualified for their full allocation. Addis Ababa retained its
      previous allocation.
・     The best performers that qualified for accelerated allocations for all the 4 APAs
      were Bishoftu, Shashemene, Wolayta Sodo, Adigrat, Axum, Shire Endaselassie,
      Gondar and Kombolcha.

Cities also performed well in specific performance areas such as planning and
budgeting, accountability and transparency, financial management, environmental and
social management, procurement management (although there were delays and some
issues, cities managed to complete all the procurements), revenue enhancement
(targets achieved but issues remain with respect to uneconomic tariffs and heavy
reliance on land lease income), asset management (all cities prepared asset
management plans but had problems, which still persist, in updating asset inventories),
operation and maintenance (increased budgets and expenditures but still not adequate
in addressing the huge maintenance backlog identified in the AMPs).

Job creation was an unintended benefit at design but was promoted during
implementation in that there was an emphasis on labor-intensive construction which
created an estimated 312,460 permanent and temporary jobs in small and micro
enterprises, about one-third of which have were taken by women. The majority of jobs
went to people with little previous experience in formal employment. Importantly, a large
number of small and micro enterprises have been involved in project execution. The
experience gained in business development and operations is expected to contribute to
future local economic development.

The biggest challenge during project implementation was the delay in the procurement
of the APA consultants which resulted in delays in disbursements and ultimately led to
failure by some cities to achieve some of the expected CIP utilization rates. The
independent evaluators also identified this as a major new risk to the project that was
not identified during design and which was not fully addressed during implementation.
All other major project risks identified at design were largely addressed and mitigated
during implementation. The other major challenge for the project was the high staff
turnover at all levels of government and this was especially felt in the cities as they were
the project implementers.




                                            43
Despite the problems and challenges, the project has been a significant success. It has
laid the foundation for further performance improvement in the cities and has increased
cities’ capacity to deliver infrastructure and services. The project has also laid a
foundation and created an opportunity for additional cities that did not participate in
ULGDP 1 to join future programs. In this regard ULGDP 1 has assisted 26 new cities to
be ready to join ULGDP 2.

Based on the above, the project evidence and the report of the independent evaluation
consultants which also supports this conclusion, the Ministry therefore concludes
that the project has achieved its project development objective which was to
support improved performance in the planning, delivery and sustained provision
of priority municipal services and infrastructure by urban local governments.

The Ministry would like to thank the World Bank and its staff for providing the financial
and technical support for this very successful project and also congratulates all the
project implementers at federal, regional and city levels on this achievement. We hope,
and will strive, for similar and even better success on ULGDP II.




                                           44
                    Annex 6: List of Supporting Documents

Project documents

Project Concept Note, May 2007
Project Appraisal Document, May 2, 2008
Ethiopia Country Assistance Strategy, April 2, 2008
Financing Agreement, June 13, 2008
Additional Financing Project Paper, May 18, 2011
Financing Agreement, Additional Financing, September 15, 2011.
Midterm Review, September 2011
Country Partnership Strategy, August 29, 2012
Aide memoires
Implementation Support Reports, 14 total from June 2008 to January 2015.
Quarterly and annual progress reports prepared by the MUDHCo based on input from
the regional government and the cities.
Financial audits.




                                        45
                                35°                                                               40°                                                      45°
                                                             ERITREA                                                                                                                                                     ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                                    Red
                                                                                                                                                                                         15°   URBAN LOCAL GOVERNMENT
           15°
                                                                                                                                                         REPUBLIC OF
                                                                                                                         Sea                                                                     DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                                             Endaselasie                     Adigrat                                                        YEMEN
                                                                                   Axum
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PROJECT CITIES
                  SUDAN                                             T I G R AY
                                                                                  Mekele                                                                                                                           ASPHALT, ALL-WEATHER ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   GRAVEL, ALL-WEATHER ROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RURAL AND/OR DRY-WEATHER ROADS
                                                                 Gondar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   RIVERS
                                                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                                               Ade
                                                                                                           A FA R
                                                                  AMHARA                                                             DJIBOUTI                           f   of                                     INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS

                                                                                                                      Asayita                                    Gul                                               NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                               Bahir Dar                                                                                                                                           REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                        Dessie                                                                                                                     SELECTED TOWNS
                                                                                                   Kombolcha

                                                                     Debre                                                                                                                                         REGION BOUNDARIES
                              BENSHANGUL -
                                                                     Markos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                 GUMUZ
                              Asosa                                                                                  Dire        DIRE                                                    10°
           10°                                                                                                                  DAWA
                                                                                                                    Dawa
                                                                                                 Debre
                                                                     ADDIS                       Berhan                                 Jijiga                   SOMALIA                             This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bank. The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other
                                                                     ABABA                                            Harar
                                                                                                                            HARARI                                                                   information shown on this map do not imply, on the part of
                                                   Nekemte                                                                                                                                           The World Bank Group, any judgment on the legal status of
                                                               Ambo                                                                                                                                  any territory, or any endorsement or acceptance of such
                                                              Ambo
                                            OROMIA                           Bishoftu                                                                                                                boundaries.
                                                                                            Adama
                    Gambela
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  50°
                                                                                         Asela                                                                                                             35°              40°
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SAUDI ARABIA
                   GAMBELA                      Jimma




                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Re
                                                         Hoseana




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            d
                                                                                  Shashemene                                                                                                                                                        R E P. O F
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ERITREA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Se
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    YEMEN                     15°
                                                                                                                                                 SOMALI                                        15°




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        a
                                                             Sodo                wasa
                                                                                Awasa                   Goba
                                                                                                                                                                                                SUDAN                                                                    en
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   of Ad
                                      SOUTHERN NATIONS,              Dilla                                                                                                                                                                                  G u lf
                                                         Arba                                                                                                                                                                               D J IBO U T I
                                       NATIONALITIES AND Minch                              OROMIA                                                Gode                                                                                                                        10°
                                            PEOPLES                                                                                                                                            10°


                 SUDAN                                                                                                                                                                                                      Addis Ababa

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ETHIOPIA
                                                                                                                                                                        SOMALIA
           5°                                                                                                                                                                             5°
                                                                                                                                                                                               5°                                                                              5°

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S O M AL I A
                                                                                                                                                   0      100     200       300




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    IBRD 36090
                                                                                                                                                                                               UGANDA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   K E N YA                                 INDIAN
MAY 2008




                                                                                                                                                           KILOMETERS
                                                                                                                                                                                  INDIAN       0°
                                                                                                                                                                                                              Lake                                          OCEAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               0°

                                                                                                                                                                                                              Victoria
           UGANDA              35°                 K E N YA                                       40°                                                      45°                    OCEAN                      35°                  40°                45°                50°
