 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14844

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 10/14/2015

               Country: Ethiopia
             Project ID: P101474                                                   Appraisal              Actual
          Project Name: Urban Local Govt            Project Costs (US$M):                  208.00              416.00
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                  150.00               288.09
      Sector Board:        Urban Development          Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                05/29/2008
                                                              Closing Date:              12/31/2014         12/31/2014
          Sector(s):       Sub-national government administration (55%); Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways
                           (15%); General water; sanitation and flood protection sector (10%); General industry and
                           trade sector (10%); Solid waste management (10%)
          Theme(s):        Municipal governance and institution building (29%); Urban services and housing for the
                           poor (29%); Decentralization (28%); Municipal finance (14%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:           ICR Review                 Group:
                                                  Coordinator:
Ranga Rajan                George T. K. Pitman    Christopher David          IEGPS1
Krishnamani                                       Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

The Project Development Objective as stated in the Financing Agreement (Schedule 1, page 5) and in the Project
Appraisal Document (PAD, page 7) was:

"To support improved performance in the planning , delivery and sustained provision of priority municipal services
and infrastructure by the Recipient 's urban local governments ."

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 07/05/2011

c. Components:

1: Performance Grant (estimated cost at appraisal US$203.00 million, estimated additional financing cost US$200.00
million, actual cost at closure US$403.00 million). This component planned to support a grant transfer mechanism - in
the form of a specific purpose grant that was integrated with the intergovernmental fiscal framework - to eligible Urban
Local Governments (ULG), for improving their institutional and organizational performance. To be eligible, ULGs were
required to implement the government's reforms under the Urban Good Governance Program through meeting
specified access and performance criteria. The access criteria included, submitting a signed Participation and
Performance Agreement, preparing (through consultative participatory process) a rolling three year Capital Investment
Plan and an Annual Action Plan (covering investment, budget and procurement), demonstrating availability of
budgetary resources for meeting counterpart funding and funding for Operations and Management (O&E), and
providing evidence of adequate staffing for project implementation. It was expected that the project inputs would
improve the cities’ performance as follows: (i) timely submission of progress reports to regions (including progress
reports on procurement and safeguards); (ii) timely submission of annual updates of three year rolling plans and
annual economic plans; (iii) achievement of annual targets in revenue generation and implementing accounting
system improvements; (iv) preparing annual updates of inventories of infrastructure assets; (v) timely submission of
external audits and compliance with audit recommendations; (vi) providing evidence of effective public dissemination
of information on budgets; and (vii) progress in utilizing the annual capital investment budget.

2: Implementation Support (estimated cost at appraisal US$3.00 million, estimated additional financing cost US$6.00
million, actual cost at closure US$9.00 million). This component provided project management and technical support
for assessing annual performance, training, conducting workshops, technical assistance in environment and social
management, procurement, financial management and other areas for strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of
Urban Development, Housing and Construction (MUDHCo), and of urban local governments to execute the
responsibilities.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost: At appraisal, the estimated total project cost was US$208.00 million (this included the estimated project
cost of US$206.00 million and an unallocated cost of US$2.00 million). The costs were revised to US$416.00 million
(including the revised estimated cost of project components of US$412.00 million and unallocated cost of US$4.00
million). The actual project cost at closure was US$416.00 as per the revised estimate.

Project Financing: The original approved IDA financing was for US$150.00 million: Additional Financing (AF) of
US$150.00 was approved on July 5, 2011. With this, the total Bank financing was estimated at US$300.00 million. At
project closure, US$288.09 million had been disbursed and US$67,075 was cancelled. The difference of about US$12
million is the result of exchange rate variations between Special Drawing Rights (the currency of the Credit) over the
life of the project and the US$.

There was parallel financing for complementary Urban sector activities by the German Society for International
Cooperation (Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Internationale Zusammenabeit (GIZ). Under the Urban Governance and
Decentralization Program financed by GTZ, the agency supported the cities in various aspects of urban management
(including in the areas of financial management, preparation of Capital Investment Plans, preparing revenue
enhancement plans, and asset management plans, procurement and M&E).

Borrower's Contribution: At appraisal, the Government's contribution was estimated at US$58.00 million. Additional
contribution by the Government when additional financing had been approved was estimated at US$58.00 million. At
closure, the Government contribution was US$116.00 million as agreed.

Dates; Additional financing was approved by the Board on July 15, 2011. Although the project development objective
remained unchanged, the scope of the project increased, both by scaling-up support to the 19 cities participating in
the project and by assisting 18 additional cities to build capacity in the areas of capital investment plan, asset and
financial management, and revenue enhancement.
The project closed as scheduled on December 31, 2014.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

High

Project objectives were relevant to country conditions. At the appraisal, although Ethiopia was one of the least
urbanized countries in Africa - with less than 19% of its population living in cities - urban areas in Ethiopia were among
the fastest growing in Africa. Urban population was growing at the rate of about 3.8% per year, and the proportion of
urban population was expected to triple by 2037. Thus it was important for the government to improve delivery of
urban services (such as education, health and other public services) to catalyze utilization of opportunities associated
with agglomeration of economic activities in urban areas..

Project objectives were relevant to the government's policies: Urban Development Policy issued in March 2005; the
Plan for Accelerated and Sustained Development to End Poverty; the Urban Development Program; and the Urban
Good Governance Programs launched in 2006/2007. While the Urban Development Program included initiatives
aimed at improving the delivery of urban-based public services (such as infrastructure, municipal services, jobs and
housing), the Urban Good Governance Program supported initiatives aimed at promoting the institutional and
organizational aspects of urban governance. Project development objective remains relevant to the current
Government strategy for the 2010/2011 to 2014/2015 period, articulated in the Growth and Transformation Plan that
identified the need for building-capacity and deepening of good governance to accelerate economic growth

The project development objective was relevant to the Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for the 2008-2011 that
identified the need for accelerating growth in Ethiopia through, among things, supporting urban development. Project
development objectives remain relevant the Bank strategy for Ethiopia. The current Country Partnership Strategy for
the fiscal years 2013-2016 identified the need for: (i) increasing productivity and competitiveness of the industrial and
service sector through building the capacity of urban local governments in areas of planning and budgeting and (ii)
increasing government effectiveness through capacity-building at the decentralized level, strengthening government
accountability and transparency and through greater public participation in policy making.

b. Relevance of Design:

Substantial:

The linkages between the project activities, their outputs and the intended project outcomes were logical, and the
intended outcomes were clear. The provision of a grant transfer to eligible Urban Local Governments (ULG's) and its
conditionality (such as submitting signed Participation and Performance Agreements, preparing through consultative
participatory process the required plans, demonstrating availability of budgetary resources for meeting counterpart
funding and funding for Operations and Management (O&E)) were relevant. The specified performance criteria (such
as timely submission of progress reports to regions, timely submission of annual updates of three year rolling plans
and annual economic plans, achievement of annual targets in revenue generation and implementing accounting
system improvements and providing dissemination of information on budgets) were also relevant as they would
contribute to improving performance in the planning, delivery and sustained provision of priority municipal services
and infrastructure in ULG's. The design incorporated appropriate arrangements such as implementation of local
government activities involving small investments by local governments rather than by the central ministry, since the
local government staff were expected to have better knowledge of local conditions and empowering the city
administrations to execute works was more likely to promote accountability and project ownership.

The design, however, did not incorporate adequate mechanisms to ensure that the regional government agencies
and municipalities could perform the project tasks. Although the regional agencies were expected to perform critical
tasks (such as implementing environmental and social safeguards, preparing annual audits of the financial statement
of cities and clearing their audit backlogs), the project did not provide source of funding for the regional agencies. This
in turn hampered their ability to perform the tasks in a timely fashion. Likewise, although municipalities were expected
to prepare revenue enhancement plans to ensure that cities continue to invest in infrastructure, most cities lacked the
capacity to prepare such plans.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

"To support improved performance in the planning , delivery and sustained provision of priority municipal services
and infrastructure by the Recipient 's urban local governments ": Substantial.

Not all the outcomes can be attributed to this project in view of the complementary urban sector activities by the Bank
and by GTZ in Ethiopia (discussed in section 2d). While the project activities can be expected to have improved
urban planning and urban service delivery, urban sector activities financed by the Bank in Ethiopia (Capacity building
for Decentralized Service Delivery) and by GTZ in the context of the Urban Governance and Decentralization
Program, could have influenced the outcomes. A precise assessment of attribution is not possible. It is, however,
reasonable to assume that the project contributed to a significant extent in improving performance in planning,
delivery and sustained provision of priority municipal services and infrastructure in Ethiopia.

Outputs:

    19 Urban Local Governments (ULG) submitted approved Capital Investment Plan and 17 citizens groups in
     ULG's participated in the Capital Investment Planning Process as compared to the target of 19.
    All 19 UGLs prepared three-year rolling budgets, annual financial reports in the required format, revenue
     enhancement plans and infrastructure asset inventories that were updated annually, as targeted.
    870 Kilometers of non-rural roads were constructed as compared to the revised target of 1,000 kilometers.
    647 kilometers of drainage systems were constructed as compared to the target of 900 kilometers.
    131 improved community water points were constructed or rehabilitated under the project as compared to the
     target of 10.
    35,600 persons were provided with access to improved water sources as compared to the target of 2,500.
    85 million people, of which 50% were female beneficiaries, benefited from the project, as targeted.
    1.5 million people were provided with access to all season roads within a 500 meter range, as targeted.

Outcomes:

Overall, urban local governments improved their performance, with minor shortcomings, in the planning, delivery and
sustained provision of priority municipal services, albeit with additional financing. Generally, priorities differed slightly
from those anticipated, most notably in the increased demand for improved water sources.

    26 new cities met the access criteria for a potential second project as compared to the revised target of 14.
    Under the auspices of the project, all the 19 cities prepared the revenue enhancement plans for investing in
     urban infrastructure through raising revenue from own sources. Of the 19 cities, 10 cities prepared plans that
     would ensure that 85% of their infrastructure targets could be met through their own sources, as compared to the
     target of 75% of their infrastructure budgets.
    19 ULGs produced timely external audit reports which were either unqualified or qualified with minor comments
     as targeted.
    75% of the annual operations and maintenance budgets was met in 17 cities as compared to the target of 19
     cities.

5. Efficiency:

Substantial:

Economic and Financial Efficiency .

The project did not provide estimates of economic or financial rates of return on investment at appraisal as the specific
investments were not known at the time of project preparation.

An ex post Economic Rate of Return was calculated for with and without project scenarios for cobblestones roads
constructed in nine of the cities participating in the project. This component accounted for approximately 50% of the
total project cost. The main benefits of the project were assumed to come from reductions in the cost of motorized
transport, time savings and reduced vehicle operating cost. The ICR notes that the benefits were likely to be
underestimated, as benefits that could not quantified (such as the benefits associated with non-motorized transport)
were not included in the economic analysis. The ex post ERR was 20% and the Net Present Value was US$31.1
million.

Administrative Efficiency .

While the rate of return indicates a relative good investment, there were minor shortcomings with regards to the
administrative nature of certain aspects of the project. These include the following:
  There were delays in recruiting consultants for undertaking Annual Performance Assessments. This in turn
    resulted in a delay of 14 months for making disbursements to cities.
  The lack of financing for the regional government agencies hampered the agencies in performing critical project
    tasks such as auditing the cities financial statements, This in turn led to delays in submission of audits by the
    regional agencies (ICR, page 10).
  Inadequate staffing at Ministry of Urban Development, Housing and Construction meant that the ministry could
    not provide as much support to the cities as required, and high turnover of staff in city administrations resulted in
    uneven quality of documents supplied by the cities for urban management (documents such as the Capital
    Investment Plans, asset management plans and monitoring and evaluation reports).
  Given the selection of cities that included both large cities and secondary sized cities, the amount allocated to a
    large city - Addis Ababa (US$20 million) was not a sufficient incentive to bring about changes in the city
    administration. Unlike the other cities participating in the project, Addis Ababa had access to additional revenue
    sources.
  At the time of project closure, and despite additional financing, a number of investments financed under the
    project were not complete (such as the traffic control center in Kekelle, the cultural center in Hawassa, markets in
    Bahir Dar and Arba Minch) and some completed projects were not operating at full capacity (ICR, page 23).
    Information subsequently provided by the team confirmed that these activities have now been completed and the
    centers are operational.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :
                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      20%                                     50%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

The project development objective was highly relevant to the country and design was rated as substantial. The
objective was substantially achieved and efficacy is rated substantial, Efficiency was rated as Substantial. The rate of
return indicates a relative good investment. Although there were operational and administrative inefficiencies and a
number of investments that were financed under the project were not complete or not operational at project closure,
information subsequently provided by the team confirmed clarified that these activities have been completed to date.
 a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Sustainability Risk : At project closure, a number of investments financed under the project were either not complete
or not operational. Information provided by the team confirmed that these activities have been completed to date.
There is a risk that the ongoing benefits of the project may not be sustained since sustainability of the infrastructure
and services will depend on the city’s ability to mobilize increasing amounts of revenue. Additional information
provided by the team clarified that there is an ongoing Bank financed program (Second Urban Local Government
Development Program) which aims at continuing support the cities that participated in this project, and this project
aimed at assisting the capacity of the cities to mobilize revenue and reward cities that prepare up dated revenue
enhancement plans and strategies for raising revenue through own sources..


   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The project design built on the lessons from a prior Bank financed project (Capacity Building for Decentralized
Service Delivery Project) and with the GTZ-financed Urban Development Fund. Risks associated with the project
were identified and the overall risk was rated as Substantial. Several risk mitigation measures were planned at the
appraisal stage. Environmental and social safeguard issues and fiduciary (financial management and
procurement) issues were adequately addressed at the project preparation stage.


   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                         Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Project supervision was adequately carried out: there were 12 missions in six years. The missions included both
foreign and local consultants with expertise in urban development, environmental and social safeguards, M&E and
financial management. The continuity of the team was maintained: although the project had two task team leaders
-one from identification to mid-2011 and the other from mid-2011 to until the project closed, the transition was
seamless as the second team leader had served as a co-team leader from the beginning. The location of the
Bank's task team leader and many members of the task team in Addis Ababa helped in providing day to day
support to the ministry and to the cities.

The team responded proactively to address the challenges at the implementation stage. For instance, when the
cities experienced difficulties in contracting small firms to construct cobblestone roads, the team worked with the
government to develop the cobblestone works procurement manual. Likewise, when there were issues pertaining
to the environmental management of quarry sites, the supervision team assisted the government in preparing for
the rehabilitation of the quarry site. The additional financing package was prepared by the team quickly, requiring
only six months from concept review stage to Board approval.
   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:

There were delays associated with meeting the project effectiveness conditions. Although the government signed
the financing agreement on June 13, 2008, they were not able to meet the effectiveness conditions within the
stipulated time due to delays associated with hiring of the accountant and training staff on financial management
procedures. As a result, the project was declared effective nearly four months after Board approval and two and
half months after the planned date of effectiveness. The Ministry of Finance and Economic Development made
the allocations to the cities and in accordance with the agreements between the Bank and the Ministry, and its
performance in preparing the quarterly financial management reports (based on cities inputs) and submitting them
to the Bank was satisfactory.

   Government Performance Rating                                Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The Ministry of Urban Development, Housing and Construction was the overall implementing agency of the project
The agency met its condition effectively by quickly adopting the project implementation plan and operational
manual. The agency also took the lead in preparing a capacity assessment of project implementing agencies at
the Urban Local Government level. Its performance in providing day-to-day support to cities, compiling quarterly
progress reports based on the information provided by regional governments, and providing training and technical
assistance to the cities, was satisfactory. However, the delays associated with procuring the consulting firm for
undertaking Annual Performance Assessments by the Ministry slowed disbursement of funds to the cities, and this
in turn undermined the ability of the cities to execute the Capital Investment Plans as planned (ICR, page 28).
Inadequate staffing at the ministry resulted also in the ministry not providing as much as oversight support to the
cities as required in adopting consistent approach to M&E and safeguards across cities.(ICR, page 11). Although
the regional government agencies were expected to perform key project tasks (such as ensuring compliance of
the ULG’s with safeguards frameworks, auditing of cities financial statements and clearing their audit backlogs),
the lack of financial resources for the agencies affected the state agencies' ability to perform these functions in a
timely fashion (ICR, page 30).


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The results framework included a list of key and intermediate indicators for monitoring progress. The monitoring of the
project was to be through the Plan, Preparation, Monitoring, Evaluation System (PPM&E) established by the Ministry
of Works and Urban Development (MWUD) for monitoring Urban Development and Urban Good Governance
Programs.


 b. M&E Implementation:
   Although appropriate, some M&E indicators proved difficult to be measured and had to be dropped as part of
restructuring. The number of PDP indicators was reduced from eight to five. Although cities were required to appoint
an M&E focal person for participating in the project, the appointed persons did not have the required skills for M&E
implementation. The ICR (page 12) reports that collecting data from many parts of the administration (such as the
department of public works, the office of finance and development and revenue collection authorities) proved to be
difficult. The high turnover of city administration staff resulted in weakness in reporting from cities and this often
contained inaccurate data (ICR page 11). Information subsequently provided by the team clarified that the data
collected by the cities was not the primary source of information, as information was also collected by an independent
firm of professionals from the cities on all the indicators while performing Annual Performance Assessments (APA's).
Data collected by the independent consultants was used to verify the information provided by the cities.

c. M&E Utilization:

The ICR (page 12) reports that the information from monitoring data was used to identify problematic areas. The
team clarified that the information provided by the Annual Performance Assessments was used to guide resource
allocations to cities. .


M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

This was classified as a Category 'B' project under OP/BP 4.01 Environmental Assessment. In addition, two
safeguard policies were triggered: Physical Cultural Properties (OP 4.11, and Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12). An
Environmental and Resettlement Policy Framework (ESMF) was prepared to address potential negative
environmental and social impacts. The Framework included, establishing clear procedures and methodologies for
environmental and social assessment, specifying appropriate roles and responsibilities for managing and monitoring
environmental and social concerns, determining the training, capacity building and technical assistance needs to
implement the provisions of the ESMF and providing practical information resources for implementing the framework.
A Resettlement Policy Framework was also developed as a separate document.

The ICR (page 12) notes that in the although in the early years of implementation, cities experienced problems in
applying the ESMF and there were occasional mistakes in categorizing them, these got resolved. At project closure,
the project's safeguard requirements was deemed to be satisfactory (ICR page 13).



b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial Management : At project start-up, the governments financial management systems were deemed to be
satisfactory, To strengthen the financial management of the project, actions were outlined in the Financial
Management Action plan such as preparation of financial management guidelines, recruitment of a qualified
accountant and provision of training on project financial management issues to staff, prior to credit effectiveness.

The cities complied with the Bank's policies, and aside from the audit covering the financial year that ended on July 7,
2014, which was qualified, and all audits for the project were unqualified (ICR page 13).

Procurement: The Ministry and some cities had difficulties in complying with the Bank's procurement procedures,
particularly in the early years of implementation and this led to delays in the execution of some activities and some
ineligible expenditures. However, by the end of the project, the ministry and cities procurement arrangements were
deemed to be satisfactory (ICR, page 14). The ICR provides no indication of reported cases of misprocurement.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory

       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately          There were shortcomings in the
                                                            Satisfactory        performance of the implementing
                                                                                agency such as delays in procurement
                                                                                which in turned slowed the
                                                                                disbursement to cities and inadequate
                                                                                staffing in the Ministry which in turn
                                                                                undermined the agency's ability to
                                                                                support the cities in adopting consistent
                                                                                standards.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

The ICR draws the following lessons from the experience of preparing and implementing this project.

(1) It is always important to include funds or incentives to regional entities or agencies in the context of a urban
development project when many regional entities are involved . The experience with this project demonstrated that
although the regional agencies were expected to perform key project tasks, the project did not provide any funding
to the agencies for undertaking these tasks. This in turn compromised their ability to complete the project tasks in a
timely fashion.

(2) Where cities are expected to continue to invest in maintain infrastructure , it is important to ensure that capacity
building support is provided to the cities . In the case of this project, cities were expected to prepare revenue
enhancement plans and identify potential sources of funding for infrastructure investment through their own
sources. Although all cities prepared revenue enhancement plans as required, most did not do so based on a
through analysis of the potential of various revenue sources, but did so based on projections of revenue achieved in
the previous years.

(3) Where many cities are involved in a project , it would be useful to support large cities with a stand alone
project, rather than through a project which includes both large cities and multiple secondary cities . This project
included a mix of many secondary cities and large cities like Addis Ababa. Funds available to Addis Ababa were
inadequate to encourage the city to make the required changes since the project provided only a small portion of its
overall revenues.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR for the most part is well written. It reports both outputs and outcomes of the project and its assessment of the
achievement of the project is evidence-based. It is candid in discussing the problems that were encountered through
the project execution phase and it also provides a good exposition of the lessons learnt from the experience of
implementing this project..

The ICR could have been clearer in few instances (such as the problems encountered in M&E implementation).
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
