                                    Document of
                                   The World Bank



                                                         Report No: 89201-HT




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                           (IDA-H639-0-HT)



                                        ON A
                                       GRANT

                      IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.9 MILLION
                         (US$15 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF HAITI

                                        FOR A

                  CHOLERA EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROJECT



                                  September 17, 2014




Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice
Haiti Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean
                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                    (Exchange Rate Effective: September 17, 2014)
                      Currency Unit = Haitian Gourdes
                              $1.00 = US$0.02
                           US$1.00 = $44.45

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               October 1 – September 30

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CBR    Cost-Benefit Ratio
CDC    Center for Disease Control
CFR    Case Fatality Rate
CRD    Center of Research and Development (Centre de Recherche et de Développement)
DALY   Disability-Adjusted Life Years Lost
DELR   Direction of Epidemiology, Laboratory and Research (Direction d’Epidémiologie, de
       Laboratoire et de Recherche)
DINEPA National Direction of Water and Sanitation (Direction National de l’Eau et de
       l’Assainissement)
FAES   Economic and Social Assistance Funds (Fonds d’Assistance Economique et Sociale)
FY     Fiscal Year
GDP    Gross Domestic Product
GOH    Government of Haiti
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IDA    International Development Association
IDB    Inter-American Development Bank
IFR    Interim Financial Report
ISR    Implementation Status and Results Report
LNSP   National Laboratory of Public Health (Laboratoire National de Santé Publique)
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
MSPP   Ministry of Public Health and Population (Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la
       Population)
NGOs   Non-Governmental Organizations
ORS    Oral Rehydration Salt
PAHO   Pan-American Health Organization
PDO    Project Development Objectives
PRUC   Cholera Emergency Response Project (Project de Réponse D’Urgence Au Choléra)
TEPAC Technicians on water and sanitation
UNICEF United Nations Children's Fund
UPMC   University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
WHO    World Health Organization

                                    Vice President:   Jorge Familiar
                           Special Envoy for Haiti:   Mary Barton-Dock
                                 Practice Manager:    Enis Barış
                             Project Team Leader:     Eleonora Cavagnero
                                ICR Team Leader:      Claudia Macías
                             ICR Primary Author:      Claudia Macías and Voahirana Rajoela




                                             ii
                                                  HAITI
                                     Cholera Emergency Response Project


                                                         CONTENTS


Data Sheet

A. Basic Information.......................................................................................................... iv
B. Key Dates ...................................................................................................................... iv
C. Ratings Summary .......................................................................................................... iv
D. Sector and Theme Codes................................................................................................ v
E. Bank Staff ....................................................................................................................... v
F. Results Framework Analysis .......................................................................................... v
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs ....................................................................... ix
H. Restructuring ................................................................................................................. ix
I. Disbursement Profile ..................................................................................................... ix

1.        Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................ 1
2.        Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ........................................... 4
3.        Assessment of Outcomes ....................................................................................... 12
4.        Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome ...................................................... 17
5.        Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance .................................................. 18
6.        Lessons Learned..................................................................................................... 20
7.        Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners........ 21

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .............................................................................. 22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component...................................................................................... 23
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ..................................................................... 25
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes................. 32
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ............................................................................... 34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results....................................................... 35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ......................... 36
Comments from Recipient ................................................................................................ 45
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ........................... 48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents .......................................................................... 49
Annex 10. Project contribution to the reduction of cholera incidence and mortality ....... 51
Annex 11. MAP IBRD 33471R ....................................................................................... 53




                                                                 iii
Data Sheet

A. Basic Information
                                                                 Cholera Emergency
Country:            Haiti                  Project Name:
                                                                 Response Project
Project ID:          P120110            L/C/TF Number(s):        IDA-H6390
ICR Date:            09/04/2014         ICR Type:                Core ICR
Lending Instrument: ERL                 Recipient:               HAITI
Original Total
                     XDR 9.90M          Disbursed Amount: XDR 9.23M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:      XDR 9.90M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agency: Economic and Social Assistance Funds (Fonds d’Assistance
Economique et Sociale -- FAES)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:

B. Key Dates
                                                                   Revised / Actual
   Process        Date           Process         Original Date
                                                                       Date(s)
Concept
               11/19/2010 Effectiveness:          04/20/2011         02/07/2011
Review:
                                                                     06/04/2013
Appraisal:     12/03/2010 Restructuring(s):
                                                                     12/27/2013
Approval:      01/18/2011 Mid-term Review:
                                                                     12/31/2013
                            Closing:              06/30/2013
                                                                     03/30/2014

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by Implementation Completion and Results Report (ICR)
Outcomes:                              Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:           Substantial
Bank Performance:                      Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                  Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
        Bank               Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
                    Moderately                             Moderately
Quality at Entry:                      Government:
                    Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Quality of                             Implementing        Moderately
                    Satisfactory
Supervision:                           Agency/Agencies:    Satisfactory
Overall Bank        Moderately         Overall   Borrower Moderately
Performance:        Satisfactory       Performance:        Satisfactory

                                       iv
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
  Implementation Performance Indicators QAG Assessments (if any) Rating
 Potential Problem Project at any
                                   Yes          Quality at Entry (QEA):       None
time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time
                                   No           Quality of Supervision (QSA): None
(Yes/No):
 DO rating before Closing/Inactive Moderately
status:                            Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                         Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health                                                     73                73
Public administration- Health                              27                27



Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Health system performance                                   13               13
Other communicable diseases                                 87               87

E. Bank Staff
       Positions                   At ICR                      At Approval
Vice President:        Jorge Familiar                  Pamela Cox
Country Director:      Mary Barton-Dock                Alexandre V. Abrantes
Practice Manager:      Enis Barış                      Joana Godinho
Project Team Leader:   Eleonora Del Valle Cavagnero    Maryanne Sharp
ICR Team Leader:       Claudia Macias
ICR Primary Author:    Voahirana H. Rajoela

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of the Project is to improve the health and hygiene practices in order to
reduce the spread of cholera and strengthen the Recipient’s institutional capacity to
respond to outbreaks.

Revised Project Development Objectives (PDO) (as approved by original approving
authority)
The PDO remained unchanged during the Project life.




                                          v
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                     Original Target    Formally        Actual Value
                                       Values (from      Revised        Achieved at
  Indicator      Baseline Value
                                        approval         Target      Completion or Target
                                       documents)        Values            Years
                Percentage of population in Project intervention areas who know A) the
Indicator 1 :
                cholera early warning symptoms and B) prevention steps.
Value
                 Rapid Survey to                         A): 69        A): 82
(quantitative or                   TBD by Department
                 be done                                 B): 18        B): 14
qualitative)
Date achieved 22-Dec-2010          30-June- 2013         30-June-2013 30-June-2013
                Partially achieved. Baseline data was available for four Departments in Sept.
Comments
                2011 and for three Departments in Aug. 2012. Final baseline, defined as
(incl. %
                Department average, was available in June 2013 - A) 64, B) 13. See section 2.3
achievement)
                for explanation.
                Percentage of population in Project intervention areas with access to improved
Indicator 2 :
                water sources.
Value                              TBD by Department
                Rapid Survey to
quantitative or                                          78            79
                be done
Qualitative)

Date achieved 22-Dec-2010          30-June-2013          30-June-2013 30-June-2013
                Achieved. Baseline data was available for four Departments in Sept. 2011 and
Comments
                for three Departments in Aug. 2012. Final baseline, defined as Department
(incl. %
                average, was available in June 2013. See section 2.3 for explanation.
achievement)
                Increased institutional capacity as measured by achievement of at least four out
Indicator 3 :
                of five of Component 2 indicators on an annual basis.
Value                               Four out of five                   Four out of five
quantitative or N/A                 Component 2 indicators             Component 2 indicators
Qualitative)                        achieved                           achieved
Date achieved 22-Dec-2010           30-June-2013                       30-June-2013
Comments
                Achieved. Source of data: Project Reports. See section 3.2 for further details.
(incl. %
achievement)




                                            vi
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                 Original Target
                                                    Formally       Actual Value Achieved
                       Baseline    Values (from
    Indicator                                    Revised Target at Completion or Target
                        Value         approval
                                                     Values                  Years
                                    documents)
                   Number of communities that have received targeted health education and/or
Indicator 1 :
                   prevention activities.
Value
quantitative or    0              2,214
                                                                   4,447
Qualitative)
Date achieved      22- Dec- 2010 30-June-2013                      30-June-2013
Comments
                   Surpassed. "Localities" were used instead of communities, given the
(incl. %
                   Haitian context. Source of data: Project Reports.
achievement)
                   Number of health centers and posts, treatment and chlorination centers and
Indicator 2 :
                   units, and oral rehydration posts supported with supplies.
Value
(quantitative or   0              223                              256
qualitative)
Date achieved      22- Dec- 2010 30-June- 2013                     30-June-2013
Comments
(incl. %           Surpassed. Source of data: Project Reports.
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      Number of people receiving water treatment products and soap.
Value
quantitative or    0              178,400                          856,688
Qualitative)
Date achieved      22- Dec- 2010 30-June- 2013                     30-June-2013
Comments
(incl. %           Surpassed. Source of data: Project Reports.
achievement)
Indicator 4 :      Number of personnel and community workers trained.
Value
quantitative or    0              2,633                            5,571
Qualitative)
Date achieved      22- Dec-2010 30-June- 2013                      30-June-2013


Comments
                   Surpassed. Source of data: Project Reports.
(incl. %
achievement)




                                            vii
                              Original Target
                                                    Formally      Actual Value Achieved
                    Baseline    Values (from
    Indicator                                     Revised Target at Completion or Target
                     Value         approval
                                                      Values              Years
                                 documents)
                  Departmental Cholera Management Plan developed (by MSPP and
Indicator 5 :
                  DINEPA) for at least five departments.
Value
quantitative or   N/A           5                                   6
Qualitative)
Date achieved     22-Dec-2010 30-June- 2013                         30-June-2013
Comments
(incl. %          Surpassed. Source of data: Project Reports.
achievement)
                  Establishment and functioning of one national and five regional Cholera
Indicator 6 :
                  and Emergency Response Units.
Value
quantitative or   N/A           6                                   7
Qualitative)
Date achieved     22-Dec-2010 30-June- 2013                         30-June-2013
Comments          Surpassed. This indicator reflects the number of coordinators recruited; one
(incl. %          national cholera focal point and 6 departmental cholera coordinators.
achievement)      Source of data: Project Reports.
                  Quarterly project progress reports submitted to the Cholera Coordination
Indicator 7 :
                  Committee and to the Bank.
Value
                                Reports
quantitative or   N/A                                               Reports submitted
                                submitted
Qualitative)
Date achieved     22-Dec-2010 30-June- 2013                        30-June-2013
                  Achieved. Quarterly service providers (NGOs, MSPP and DINEPA)
Comments
                  progress reports were considered as Project progress reports. At least, 10
(incl. %
                  quarterly Project progress reports should have been submitted during the
achievement)
                  Project implementation period.
                  Good quality quarterly Interim Financial Report (IFRs) are submitted to the
Indicator 8 :
                  Bank in a timely manner.
Value
quantitative or   N/A           IFR submitted                       IFR submitted
Qualitative)
Date achieved     22-Dec-2010 30-June- 2013                         30-June-2013
Comments
                  Not achieved. From Effectiveness to Project closing date, 10 IFRs should
(incl. %
                  have been submitted. At the end of the Project, 8 IFRs were submitted.
achievement)




                                         viii
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

       Date ISR       Development            Implementation        Actual Disbursements
No.
       Archived      Objective (DO)           Progress (IP)           (USD millions)
  1   02/23/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   0.00
  2   08/09/2011       Satisfactory            Satisfactory                   3.00
  3   03/28/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            6.63
  4   11/09/2012   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory            9.91
  5   05/29/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           13.10
  6   12/27/2013   Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory           14.27

H. Restructuring

                          ISR Ratings    Amount
                Board
Restructuring                 at       Disbursed at Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved
   Date(s)               Restructuring Restructuring       Key Changes Made
              PDO Change
                          DO      IP in USD millions
                                                     Six-month extension of closing
 06/04/2013                MS    MS        13.10     date to allow implementation
                                                     of remaining activities.
                                                     Three-month extension of
                                                     closing date to allow
 12/27/2013                MS    MS        14.27
                                                     finalization of remaining
                                                     activities.

I. Disbursement Profile




                                        ix
1.      Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1     Context at Appraisal

1.      At the time of appraisal Haiti remained the poorest country in the Latin America
and the Caribbean region and one of the poorest in the world, with a GDP per capita of
US$673. Half of its 10 million population lived in absolute poverty (less than US$1 per day);
and four-fifths lived on less than US$2 per day. Multidimensional poverty was far-reaching as
evidenced by poor social indicators such as literacy, life expectancy, infant and maternal
mortality. Haiti ranked 148 out of 179 in the United Nations Human Development Index in
2008. 1

2.      Haiti was strongly impacted by the January 12, 2010 earthquake that struck its
capital and nearby towns. The earthquake was the largest urban disaster in recorded history. It
killed over 220,000 people, injured another 300,000, and displaced approximately 1.5 million,
and is estimated to have wiped out a decade in poverty gains. Housing, infrastructure, public
buildings, and businesses sustained enormous damage. The March 2010 Post-Disaster Needs
Assessment evaluated damages and losses at US$7.9 billion or 120 percent of GDP, and
reconstruction needs at US$11.3 billion. On November 5, 2010, hurricane Thomas hit Haiti
causing heavy flooding, landslides, infrastructure destruction and the loss of crops in west of the
city, which worsened the already precarious living conditions.

3.       Ten months after the devastating earthquake, a severe outbreak of cholera was
confirmed in Haiti. Between October and December 2010, 2,481 deaths and 60,644
hospitalizations from cholera were confirmed nationwide. It was the first time cholera - a
diarrheal disease associated with the consumption of food and water contaminated by feces
infected with the bacterium vibrio cholerae - had been identified in the country in at least 100
years. 2 Within a month of the initial report, cholera had spread to all regions of Haiti and the
Dominican Republic, with which Haiti shares the island of Hispaniola. The in-hospital case
fatality rate 3 in Haiti was estimated at 3.2 percent and the cholera specific mortality rate at 14.16
per 100,000 inhabitants. All ten of Haiti’s departments had confirmed cases of cholera. Living
conditions, particularly those in the camps and in slum communities, made the country extremely
vulnerable to the spread of cholera: (i) more than 30 percent of the population lacked access to
potable water; (ii) more than 80 percent had no access to latrines; 4 and (iii) limited health
knowledge and often low access to health care had worsened the situation. The already fragile
public health system was further weakened by the earthquake making it more challenging to treat
patients with health providers who lacked experience in managing cholera cases. These
conditions posed the risk of significant mortality and cholera becoming endemic.




1
  Human Development Report, United Nations Development Program, 2009.
2
   Katherine E. Bliss and Matt Fisher. Water and Sanitation in the Time of Cholera. Center for Strategic and
International Studies, September 2013.
3
  [(Number of deaths/number of cases) x 100]
4
  World Health Organization (WHO)/United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) Joint Monitoring Program, 2012.

                                                     1
4.      The Government of Haiti (GOH), in partnership with a number of agencies, created
an Emergency Cholera Coordination Committee at the central level and corresponding
committees at the departmental and commune levels to confront the situation. In addition,
an Inter-Cluster coordination system was put in place (Health, Water Sanitation and Hygiene,
Camp Coordination and Camp management and Logistics Clusters) to ensure a coordinated and
rapid response on the ground. Moreover, the Government prepared a National Strategy for the
Response to the Cholera Epidemic, including the health and water and sanitation response
through the Cholera Inter-Sector Response Strategy estimated at US$164 million. The latter
aimed at reducing avoidable mortality and morbidity by limiting the impact of the cholera
outbreak. Improving awareness and hygiene practices were key to control and reduce cholera in
Haiti.

5.      As part of Haiti’s call to the international community for support, the GOH
requested the World Bank’s assistance for its emergency response to the cholera epidemic.
In just a few months, after the confirmation of the outbreak, the World Bank responded in record
time by making a US$15 million equivalent grant available through a fast track Cholera
Emergency Response Project aimed at supporting the GOH’s response to the outbreak and
strengthening its capacity to manage this type of epidemics. This Project was the first World
Bank operation in the health sector in over a decade. At the time, the World Bank was already
supporting the GOH’s cholera prevention efforts through its Global Facility for Disaster
Reduction and Recovery with a US$200,000 grant to assist the awareness raising and prevention
program led by the Ministry of Public Health and Population (Ministère de la Santé Publique et
de la Population - MSPP). Since the start of the cholera outbreak, the World Bank was also
helping the Directorate of Civil Protection to coordinate, together with MSPP, the response of
the Government and its partners.

6.      The Project was fully consistent with the World Bank Group’s Country Assistance
Strategy FY09-12 (Report No. 48284-HT) discussed by the Executive Directors on June 2,
2009 and the 2012 Interim Strategy Note. The principal objectives of these were to invest in
human capital and reduce vulnerability. Indeed, the four pillars laid out in the Interim Strategy
Note are: (i) reducing vulnerability and increasing resilience; (ii) sustainable reconstruction in
housing and electricity; (iii) building human capital; and (iv) revitalizing the economy through
agriculture, community-driven development and private sector development. The pillars have a
cross-cutting theme of strengthening governance and capacity.

1.2         Original PDO and Key Indicators (as approved)

7.      The PDO was to improve the health and hygiene practices in order to reduce the spread
of cholera and strengthen the institutional capacity to respond to outbreaks. Progress on
achievement of the objectives of the Project was to be measured through three outcome
indicators and eight intermediate result indicators. The Project’s outcome indicators were:

      (i)   Percentage of population in Project intervention areas who know the cholera early
            warning symptoms and prevention steps;
      (ii) Percentage of population in Project intervention areas with access to improved water
            sources; and
      (iii) Increased institutional capacity as measured by achievement of at least four out of five
            of Component 2 indicators on an annual basis.
                                                  2
1.3    Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators,
and reasons/justification.

8.      The development objective was not revised. Although the formal restructuring processes
did not include changes in the Results Framework, clarifications on Project’s outcome indicators
No. 1 and No. 2, and changes to their respective baselines and targets were agreed during Project
implementation as documented in the Project’s supervision documents. Such implementation
changes have been explained under Section 2.3.

1.4        Main Beneficiaries

9.       The Project direct beneficiaries included over three million people in 4,447 localities
across seven Departments that received treatment, education, and training on proper
hygiene and water treatment for the prevention of cholera. 5 The Project targeted populations
affected by the cholera epidemic and vulnerable groups living in camps (homeless people from
the earthquake that struck Haiti in January 2010). It targeted seven of the 10 departments in Haiti
(Artibonite, Centre, Ouest - in selected parts of Port Au Prince, Sud-Est, Nippes, Sud, Grand-
Anse). The seven departments of the Project represent 73 percent of the total population with an
estimated number of 7.4 million inhabitants. 6 The Project provided oral rehydration salt (ORS)
to 121,895 people and water treatment products and soap to 850,000 people. The Project’s health
and hygiene and promotion campaigns reached around 80 percent of the population in 4,447
localities. Over 5,500 community health and hygiene agents traveled to over 1,600 communities
across the seven Departments, including the most remote areas. At the time of Project
preparation, other World Bank partners were actively responding to emergency needs, including
awareness-raising activities and distribution of chlorine tablets in the Nord and Ouest
departments.

1.5        Original Components

10.        The Project consisted of the following two components (see Annex 2).

11.     Component 1: Support to the Government’s Response to Cholera at the
Decentralized Level (appraisal: US$11.0 million; actual: US$11.0 million). The objective of
this component was to carry out a program of activities for immediate response to cholera, as
outlined in the National Strategy for the Response to the Cholera Epidemic. This component
sought to respond to the needs at the departmental level through support to all service providers,
whether public, mixed or private, undertaking interventions at all levels of the cholera response.
This component included two sub-components: (i) Sub-component 1.1: Support to a Multi-
sectoral Approach to Public Primary Health Care; and (ii) Sub-component 1.2: Support to the
Health, Water and Sanitations Response of Non-Public Providers.

12.    Component 2: Emergency Response Capacity Building (appraisal: US$4.0 million;
actual: US$3.9 million). This component financed activities to support the successful
implementation of Component 1 and to ensure that MSPP and National Directorate of Potable

5
    See Table 3.1: Population at departmental level and in localities of intervention.
6
    Haitian Institute of Statistics and Informatics, Population estimate in 2012.

                                                             3
water and sanitation (Direction Nationale de l’Eau Potable et de l’Assainissement – DINEPA)
were prepared to tackle cholera and other possible water-borne diseases. As such, this
component supported a number of emergency response capacity building activities for MSPP
and DINEPA as well as overall Project management and supervision through two sub-
components: (i) Sub-component 2.1: Strengthening Government’s capacity to manage and
respond to outbreaks; and (ii) Sub-component 2.2: Carrying out a program of activities to
support the management of Project, including monitoring, supervision and audits.

1.6     Revised Components

13.     The Project’s components were not revised during implementation.

1.7     Other significant changes

14.    The Project had two level II restructurings. The first restructuring, approved on
June 4, 2013, extended the Project closing date from June 30, 2013 to December 31, 2013 to
allow the GOH sufficient time to implement the remaining activities such as the rehabilitation of
rooms for infectious and diarrheal diseases treatment; the installation of incinerators for proper
waste management; and additional support for epidemiological surveillance.

15.    The second restructuring, approved on December 27, 2013, extended the closing
date for the second time from December 31, 2013 to March 30, 2014 to ensure the completion
of Project activities, specifically the construction of three ecological sanitary blocks and the
delivery of one ambulance-boat.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

16.      Project preparation and design were appropriately responsive to help the GOH
respond quickly and effectively to damage caused by the cholera outbreak. The Project’s
activities responded to the needs of the country and supported the Government’s National
Response Strategy to the Cholera Epidemic. Despite the difficult conditions and because of an
adequate commitment from the Government’s and the World Bank’s team, Project preparation
was expeditious - about three months. 7 The preparation of the Project benefited from broad
consultations with sector stakeholders such as MSPP, United Nations agencies, and selected
implementing partners. 8 The GOH requested that the operation be financed from its International
Development Association (IDA) allocation on grant terms. An alternative instrument was not
considered given the crisis nature of the situation and the fact that the Project met the criteria
defined under emergency operations. Funds were programmed based on the rapidly evolving
situation and guided by the Government’s assessment of gaps and pressing needs.

7
  The Concept Note review meeting was held in November 19, 2010, just a month after the cholera epidemic was
declared, and the Project became effective on February 7, 2011.
8
  Since then, the World Bank has built a strong partnership with key development partners in Haiti’s health, social
protection, and water and sanitation sectors, including the US Government Center for Disease Control (CDC) and
United States Agency for International Development (USAID), the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), the
IDB, and Médecin Sans Frontiére (MSF).

                                                        4
17.    Project design incorporated lessons learned from previous operations in Haiti, the
World Bank experience with emergency response operations and international good
practices to cholera response. The most relevant were:

      (i)    Since cholera has a "fecal-oral" transmission and 88 percent of cases of diarrhea
             worldwide are attributable to unsafe water, insufficient hygiene, and inadequate
             sanitation, 9 a multisectoral approach based on prevention, preparedness and response,
             along with an efficient surveillance system, is key to mitigating cholera outbreaks,
             controlling cholera in endemic areas and reducing deaths.

      (ii)   Projects with simple project objectives and design are easier to manage in emergency
             operations. Complex multi-sector operations are difficult to implement in low capacity
             environments.

      (iii) Close coordination with government agencies and stakeholders is essential to manage
            well intentioned, yet often disparate efforts of these groups.

      (iv) Linking emergency operations with previous and future technical assistance is essential
           to increase, inter alia, their sustainability.

      (v)    Capacity building activities are crucial to foster government’s emergency response to
             manage and respond to outbreaks.

18.     Given the high cholera case fatality rate, the Project focused mainly on emergency
response by improving: (i) the population’s access to ORS and health care services; (ii) the use
of safe water sources; (iii) the hygiene practices, such as hand washing and removal of excreta
and awareness of the early symptoms of the disease; (iv) epidemiological surveillance; and (v)
coordination between DINEPA and MSPP to effectively coordinate the response.

19.     A number of risks included in the risk matrix did materialize during Project
implementation, while others that were omitted proved to be relevant later. Among the risks
that materialized was the Government’s limited capacity to respond rapidly. As a result, initial
roll-out of emergency activities was implemented by three Non-Governmental Organizations
(NGO) - Partners in Health/Zanmi Lasante, World Vision, and Save the Children, in Port Au
Prince, Artibonite, Centre, and Sud Est Departments. The contracting of these NGOs to work at
the community level was essential to the behavior change objectives and the expected uptake of
prevention and treatment interventions. As the capacity of the Government was strengthened,
departmental health authorities also contributed to the large-scale prevention and treatment
efforts in these departments, while also expanding activities to include Grand Anse, Nippes, and
Sud Departments. The severity of some risks was underestimated during preparation. For
instance, although baseline data for two out of three outcome indicators were not available
during preparation, the risk matrix did not include possible problems associated with this lack of
information.



9
    http://www.cdc.gov/healthywater/global/diarrhea-burden.html.

                                                         5
2.2    Implementation

20.      Overall implementation was moderately satisfactory throughout Project life.
Implementation progress was originally slow due to delays in the completion of preparatory
activities with the Economic and Social Assistance Funds (Fonds d’Assistance Economique et
Sociale – FAES), NGO service providers, and DINEPA. Intensive World Bank supervision and
increased monitoring, coordination, and communication with all involved institutions helped to
promote implementation progress. Difficult access to localities due to their remoteness and the
lack of roads posed a considerable challenge for the implementation of Project activities. High
rotation of staff (five different General Directors in FAES during Project implementation) and
heavy administrative procedures at the management level of FAES delayed the implementation
of Project activities. The regular update and submission of procurement plans helped to improve
implementation of activities and disbursement rates, although extension of the closing date twice
was needed to allow full completion of programmed activities. Despite the delays, most of
planned activities were finalized. The fiduciary procedures of the GOH and the World Bank
followed regular (non-emergency) processes, particularly on procurement and thus lacked the
flexibility needed in emergency situations.

21.      The Project was implemented by FAES, in close coordination with other
development partners and NGOs at a decentralized level. At the time of preparation, FAES
was considered the best agency for assuming overall Project coordination given its experience
with Bank-financed projects. In addition, the Project was conceived to be managed by FAES on
behalf of and in close partnership with MSPP and DINEPA. However, MSPP started activities at
a later stage due to the fact that, at the time of Project preparation, its efforts were not only
focused on the cholera epidemic but on the remaining work from the January 2010 earthquake.
This fact made difficult the relationship between the MSPP and FAES and thus the
implementation of Project activities. It was not until the end of the first year of the Project that
FAES was able to benefit from the collaboration of MSPP officials for the recruitment of
institutional and community staff. Partners included mainly US Government Center for Disease
Control (CDC), the Pan-American Health Organization (PAHO), United Nations Children's
Fund (UNICEF), the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and Doctors without Frontiers
(Médecins Sans Frontières) among others. As mentioned before, the initial phase of Project
implementation was carried out by three NGOs hired to this end, which gave time for the
Departmental health authorities to develop clear and prioritized plans on how to fight cholera at
their level.

22.      Project implementation at the community level was successful despite operational
challenges. Community health and hygiene agents, including those working in very remote
areas, were able to: (i) disseminate messages on proper hygiene and water treatment for cholera
prevention; (ii) teach people to identify the cholera early symptoms; (iii) demonstrate the use of
first-line cholera treatment products, such as ORS ; and (iv) distribute water treatment products
like chlorine tablets. However, the delivery of services at the community level was negatively
affected by several factors, namely: (i) limited availability of skilled community agents given the
large amount of them required (more than 2,000); (ii) quality and duration of the training; (iii)
difficulties in the coordination between FAES and MSPP - FAES was responsible for hiring the
community health and hygiene agents and purchasing necessary goods, while MSPP was
responsible for making sure that the plans and activities were executed timely and properly; and

                                                 6
(iv) difficulties in the communication between the central and decentralized levels (messages
usually took a long time to descend from higher to lower levels and vice versa).

23.    Frequent World Bank supervision and interaction with Project partners and
stakeholders proved crucial for implementation progress. Problems encountered in Project
implementation were addressed during regular implementation support meetings and bi-monthly
supervision missions. Despite significant difficulties, the Project executed nearly US$14.9
million (99.6 percent of total grant amount), and achieved concrete and important results.

2.3     Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

24.     The M&E framework was well fitted to measure the achievement of Project
outcomes and was aligned with the GOH strategic priorities. The M&E framework included
the following: (i) rapid baseline and ex-post surveys to be conducted (with representativeness at
the departmental level) during Project implementation; (ii) routine data collection at the
community level and monitored at the departmental level; and (iii) standard quarterly and annual
reports. Due to the emergency nature of the operation, some definitions were delayed to Project
implementation. Detailed monitoring and evaluation arrangements were outlined in the Project
monitoring and evaluation Manual (December 2012), including roles and responsibilities,
monitoring and supervision steps, timing and tools. Overall, the M&E framework allowed for the
existing systems to be utilized and strengthened, however, it was much more difficult to
implement than initially expected.

25.     The M&E system was not sufficiently used as a management tool or to inform
decision-making because reliable data to define baseline and ex-post target for two of the
three PDO indicators was obtained at a very late stage of implementation. A two-phase
rapid survey was planned for establishing baseline and ex-post for PDO indicator No. 1
(percentage of population in Project intervention areas who know cholera early warning
symptoms and prevention steps), and for PDO indicator No. 2 (percentage of population in
Project intervention areas with access to improved water sources). The first phase data was
collected in four Departments before planning and implementation of activities by NGOs service
providers (in June 2011), 10 and the second phase before those by MSPP and DINEPA (in March
2012). 11 The baseline for the Project intervention by Department was first reflected in the Aide
Memoire of August 2012 (18 months after Project effectiveness). Agreement was reached with
FAES to set the ex-post target at five percent increase from baseline.

26.     Although the survey design and sampling methodology were agreed with FAES and
the World Bank, surveys had to be harmonized after the first report was available in June
2013. The sampling methodology adopted for the baseline survey was intended to provide
sufficient information on the first two Project outcome indicators in terms of the robustness of
the estimates both at an aggregate level, as well dis-aggregated by each Department of
intervention. In addition, proposed sampling took into account the possibility to assess the
impact of the Project through comparison with non-targeted departments. However,

10
   The NGOs Partners in Health/Zanmi Lasante, Save the Children and World Vision collected the data in the
departments of Centre, Artibonite, Ouest and Sud-est.
11
   The Center of Research and Development (Centre de Recherche et de Développement -- CRD) collected data in
Nippes, Sud and Grand Anse.

                                                     7
oversampling and weighting problems with phase 2 Departments raised concerns regarding
comparison across Departments and between baseline and ex-post data. Appropriate corrections
were made to both baseline and ex-post data for phase 2 Departments. Consequently, although
original baseline and ex-post target for PDO indicator No. 1 and PDO indicator No. 2 were to be
determined by Department, it was later decided to define them as an average of the seven
Departments covered by the Project (Harmonization Report 2013). This change was not made
through a formal Project restructuring.

27.     In addition to adjustments in the baseline and ex-post target of the above mentioned
PDO indicators, clarifications on how to measure them were also made during supervision.
“Percentage of population in Project intervention areas who know the cholera early warning
symptoms and prevention steps” would mean observing and reporting diarrhea with rice water
color and vomiting (as symptoms), and adopting and reporting four out of six means of
prevention (as prevention steps). “Percentage of population in Project intervention areas with
access to improved water sources” would mean regular access to clean chlorinated water. These
clarifications and changes were documented through Aide Memoires (August 29 to September 9,
2011 and August 21 to 30, 2012), an Implementation Status and Results Report (ISR sequence
3).

                  Table 1: Project Outcome Indicators – baselines and ex-posts
    Project       Action taken       Baseline      Baseline       Cumulative       Cumulative
 Development         during         (Original) (Defined during      Target         Target Value
   Outcome       implementation                implementation)       Value       (Defined during
  Indicators                                                       (Original)    implementation)
 Project Development Objective: To improve the health and hygiene practices in order to
 reduce the spread of cholera and strengthen the institutional capacity to respond to outbreaks.
 1. Percentage     Baseline and       Rapid          A: 64%2          TBD by           A: 69%2
                                                             2               1
 of population         target        Survey to       B: 13%             dept           B: 18%2
   in Project       established;     be done1
  intervention     Definition of
   areas who         indicator
  know A) the         clarified
 cholera early
    warning
symptoms and
B) prevention
      steps.
 2. Percentage     Baseline and       Rapid            78%2           TBD by            78%2
                                                                             1
 of population         target        Survey to                          dept
   in Project       established;     be done1
  intervention     Definition of
   areas with        indicator
    access to         clarified
   improved
water sources.



                                               8
     Project         Action taken        Baseline        Baseline         Cumulative        Cumulative
  Development           during          (Original)    (Defined during       Target          Target Value
    Outcome         implementation                    implementation)        Value        (Defined during
   Indicators                                                              (Original)     implementation)
  3. Increased            N/A              N/A                             Four out of
  institutional                                                                five
   capacity as                                                              indicators
  measured by                                                                achieved
achievement of
at least four out
    of five of
 Component 2
 indicators on
    an annual
      basis.
Source: 1 Emergency Project Paper Results Framework, 2010; 2 Center of Research for Development harmonization
report (average of seven departments covered by the Project), 2013.

28.     Information for the intermediate outcome indicators was collected through the
Project reports to allow the monitoring of the implementation progress in a quarterly basis.
Baseline and ex-post target, set in December 2010 remained the same for five of the eight
intermediate outcome indicators. Intermediate outcome indicator No. 2 (number of health centers
and posts, treatment and chlorination centers and units, and oral rehydration posts supported with
supplies) and No. 4 (number of personnel and community workers trained (by type of training))
and No. 6 (establishment and functioning of one national and five regional cholera and
Emergency Response Units) were subject to some changes. In 2013, the cholera response
strategy was changed by the MSPP. The new strategy no longer involved the use of permanent
stand-alone cholera rehydration posts but rather the integration of the cholera treatment into the
existing health system. Consequently, the target for these indicators was revised according to the
implementation plan submitted by the Government and agreed with the World Bank team.

29.      The Project’s activities contributed to achieving Project’s intermediate results
effectively and in turn these contributed to the desired outcomes. Reducing the spread of
cholera involves improved health and hygiene practices. This was a result of the implementation
of community and sensitization and case management activities, carried out by the NGOs service
providers and the decentralized departments of the MSPP under Component 1. The intermediate
indicators of this component measured progress towards the Project’s first sub-objective,
whereas the strengthening of institutional capacity was a result of the implementation of
activities under Component 2. The latter was directly related to the strengthening of DINEPA,
Direction of Epidemiology, Laboratory and Research (Direction d’Epidémiologie, de
Laboratoire et de Recherche - DELR), National Laboratory of Public Health (Laboratoire
National de Santé Publique - LNSP) and FAES. The intermediate indicators of Component 2
measured effectively progress towards the second sub-objective.




                                                     9
2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

30.     Environmental Safeguard. The Project was classified as category B and triggered the
Environmental Safeguard (OP 4.01) as a result of the increase of health care waste production
due to the implementation of Component 1 and the inclusion of minor works. Component 1
included the implementation of activities such as management of healthcare waste within and
from healthcare facilities, worker health and safety, and the inclusion of minor works. About 250
health facilities benefited from technical and financial support for waste management and
environmental protection, including the installation of 12 incinerators acquired by the MSPP, out
of which four were financed by the Project, the emptying of four septic tanks, and the
construction of three ecological sanitary blocks. Over 50 latrines and seven water pumps in
Truitier, an endemic area in Port Au Prince, were rehabilitated and are in use and managed by
local community organizations. The Project contributed to the upgrade of the national Standards
for Biomedical Waste Management and the Hygiene Promotion Plan. It also provided financial,
technical and training support to NGO service providers and MSPP at all levels. The
Environmental Unit of FAES followed an action plan including supervision and data collection
in all Project sites. Despite these achievements, the implementation was hindered by frequent
delays in the procurement of necessary safeguard equipment and in the disbursing of FAES
funds for the recruitment of community agents. This is the reason for the Moderately Satisfactory
rating in the last Project ISR.

31.     Procurement. The procurement arrangements were performed Moderately Satisfactory
in accordance with the last ISR. FAES internal procedures experienced some delays in the
implementation of the plan. Nevertheless, most of the planned activities were completed. Despite
the fact that FAES had previous experience with World Bank procurement rules, this was only
limited to the procurement of works and the Project implied the procurement of medicines and
medical equipment, among others. The procurement of these goods posed challenges to FAES
team since it required getting to know a new market, the creation of a whole new database of
suppliers, and acquiring specific technical skills. Throughout the implementation of the Project,
FAES counted on the support of the National Laboratory for the development of technical
specifications of medical supplies and equipment. In addition, FAES found innovative ways to
overcome procurement bottlenecks. For example, FAES team worked jointly with different
bidders in the design of a new ambulance prototype boat that was required but did not exist in the
country. On the other hand, there were lessons learned for improving procurement processes.
For instance, the experience with the recruitment of service providers in charge of collecting the
baseline data showed that there was a need to strengthen the procurement process through
allowing sufficient time to collect expressions of interest, the use of a wider range of publishing
tools (internet, etc.) and awareness of potential applicants to recruit high-quality firms to carry
out accurate, exhaustive, and timely community surveys and data analysis. For three months
(from May to July 2012), the Project benefited from the daily support of procurement specialists
which resulted in a timely review of procurement activities. Overall, the close relationship
between the FAES and World Bank procurement team allowed procurement bottlenecks to be
overcome.




                                                10
32.     Financial Management arrangements in terms of accounting, budgeting, fund flow,
internal control, external audit and financial reporting were performed Moderately
Unsatisfactory in accordance with the last ISR. Significant shortcomings existed. Main issues
encountered were that FAES, the Project Implementing Agency, was unable to provide current
disbursement rates and accurately projections. There was a high financial management staff
turnover in FAES and weaknesses in the withdrawal application submission throughout
implementation. Delays in submitting withdrawal requests and/or supporting documents were in
part due to problems encountered by FAES in accessing the World Bank´s client connection
system. Despite support from the World Bank’s supervision team, withdrawal applications took a
long time to be submitted and were often incomplete, delaying disbursements and
implementation of Project activities. In addition, a qualified opinion was issued in the audit
report covering fiscal year ending on September 30, 2012 and an ineligible expenditure was
identified (absence of supporting documentation related to salary paid to the health department)
although this issue was resolved later on. Weaknesses existed but did not prevent the managing
and monitoring of information required for Project implementation. Due diligence was taken by
FAES with the recruitment of a consultant who helped to find out the missing supporting
documentation that was verified by the auditors during the audit ending on September 30, 2012.
At the time of preparation of this ICR, the audit report covering the period October 1st, 2012 to
September 30, 2013 was overdue. The final audit covering the period October 1st, 2013 to July
30, 2014 is expected to be submitted to the World Bank no later than November 30, 2014.

2.5      Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

33.     The GOH continues to prioritize the fight against cholera. Interventions to achieve
this goal are included in the Operational Plan 2013-2015 of the MSPP, which emanates from the
National Plan for the Elimination of Cholera 2013-2022. The ultimate goal of the Plan is to
eliminate cholera from the island of Hispaniola through technical and financial support from the
international community and binational coordination. 12

34.     The World Bank remains strongly engaged in the fight against cholera in Haiti. In
fiscal year 2013, the World Bank approved financing for a project aimed at Improving Maternal
and Child Health through Integrated Social Services. This project supports the National Plan for

12
    The objectives of the Plan are the following: (i) increase access to potable water to at least 85% of the population;
(ii) increase access to improved sanitary and hygiene facilities to at least 90% of the population; (iii) increase
collection of solid waste in the metropolitan area of Port-au-Prince to 90% and in secondary cities to 80%; (iv)
strengthen the public health system to facilitate access to health care services for 80% of the population by
increasing the number of physicians and nurses per 100,000 population; (v) strengthen epidemiological and
laboratory surveillance for early detection of all cholera cases and other diseases under surveillance; (vi) ensure
research on outbreaks and a response linked to surveillance activities; (vii) ensure a strong laboratory surveillance
component to examine the possible serotypes and genotypes, as well as eventual changes in antimicrobial resistance
among Vibrio cholera strains in Haiti; (viii) intensify education of the public about household hygiene and food
hygiene to the extent that by 2022, 75% of the general population in Haiti will have knowledge of prevention
measures for cholera and other diarrheal illnesses; and (ix) put in place an evaluation tool to measure the impact of
activities related to cholera, water-borne diseases, and, more broadly, socioeconomic indicators such as absenteeism
from schools and workplaces.




                                                          11
the Elimination of Cholera through a US$20 million component. The new operation was built on
the lessons from this Project by utilizing identical implementation structures while further
enhancing the focus on integrated approach of delivery of a cost-effective maternal and child
health, nutrition and other social package of services at facility and community level as well as
directly to vulnerable households, and continuing capacity building in Project implementation
and fiduciary management aspects. The follow-up project considers contracting with public and
non-public providers through a results-based financing model to provide the package of services.
A network of community agents (Kore Fanmi) is expected to provide basic preventive services
such as hygiene and cholera prevention practices. The new project seeks to continue
strengthening the stewardship and management capacity of the GOH, donor coordination on
implementation of the national health policy and the Cholera Elimination Plan, and the
coordination with the Centers for Disease Control through use of joint implementing
mechanisms.

3.      Assessment of Outcomes

3.1     Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

35.     Project objectives, design and implementation remain highly relevant. These are
aligned with GOH’s main strategy of implementing an integrated approach to prevent and
stop the secondary transmission of cholera in Haiti. The Project supported directly the
objectives of the National Strategy for the Response to the Cholera Epidemic namely (i) social
mobilization, awareness raising on preventive measures and training of community agents; (ii)
treatment of moderate cases through the strengthening of health centers and Cholera Treatment
Units. The Project supported the National Response Strategy for the Water and Sanitation Sector
through activities that limit the spread of cholera epidemic through hygiene promotion and health
education campaigns and reinforcement of sanitation waste management. In addition, the Project
supported, to a certain extent, all nine long term objectives of the National Plan for the
Elimination of Cholera that became effective during Project implementation.

36.    Project objectives support two pillars of the World’s Bank Country Strategy FY09-
FY12 (Report No. 48284-HT), which are investing in human capital, with a focus on improving
the delivery of basic services; and reducing vulnerability to disasters. As such the Project is
consistent with the World Bank’s current Country Assistance Strategy.

37.    In the medium term, the implementation of Project activities will likely help
sustaining control of the epidemic by integrating cholera treatment into health services and
reducing costs. The Project began strengthening the public health system for the longer term.
The phase-in of MSPP’s cholera prevention, control, and treatment efforts allowed sufficient
time for defining clear priorities. These helped to focus efforts on integration of cholera
treatment into healthcare services and the establishment of an effective system of
epidemiological surveillance, ensuring smooth transition of previously stand-alone cholera
treatment activities and sites into the existing health facilities. Finally, all activities of the Project
aimed to contribute to the containment of the epidemic in the country but also to initiate
sustainable solutions while respecting the environment. These included among others, a better
collaboration between the health (MSPP) and the water and sanitation sectors (DINEPA) and the


                                                   12
Project’s contribution to the implementation of the waste management and environmental
protection plan.

3.2     Achievement of Project Development Objectives

38.     Overall, the Project was successful in achieving the expected results based on the
baseline and ex-post targets established during Project implementation. Two of the three
outcome indicators were achieved (PDO outcome indicators No. 2 and No. 3). The remaining
indicator (PDO outcome indicator No. 1) was partially achieved, but showed a very good
progress. Seven of the eight intermediate outcome indicators were surpassed, and one was not
achieved. (Annex 2).

39.     The Project was Modest in achieving its first sub-objective of improving the health
and hygiene practices in order to reduce the spread of cholera by nearly achieving its
intended objective. Achievement of the health and hygiene practices objective was to be
evaluated through two outcome indicators: percentage of the population in Project intervention
areas who know (i) the cholera early warning symptoms and prevention steps (PDO outcome
indicator No. 1), and (ii) percentage of population in Project intervention areas with access to
improved water sources (PDO outcome indicator No. 2).

40.     The Project contributed to intensifying health, household and food hygiene
education 13 of the people in the Project localities through community mobilization and
prevention activities carried out by the three NGO service providers (PIH, World Vision, and
Save the Children) and the MSPP. By Project completion, the percentage of the population
knowledge on the cholera early warning symptoms (Part of PDO outcome indicator 1) increased
from 64 percent in 2011/2012 to 82 percent in 2013, surpassing the 69 percent target. There was
a slight increase in the percentage of the population’s knowledge on the prevention steps (also
part of PDO outcome indicator 1) from 13 percent in 2011/2012 to 14 percent in 2013, albeit not
achieving the 18 percent target. A modest rating was given due to the fact that despite that the
population improved their knowledge on the cholera early warning symptoms, it did not improve
their knowledge on prevention steps, which is crucial to break the transmission of cholera.

41.     By Project completion, access to improved water sources had been slightly increased
and sanitary and hygiene facilities as well as the collection of solid waste had been
improved. The Project provided training to more than 4,000 health and hygiene agents and
medical personnel. As a result, the Project populations have better knowledge on early detection
and prevention of cholera, on treatment of drinking water and on seeking health-care. The
distribution of water treatment products and soap expanded from less than 200,000 to 800,000
thanks to the Project. In addition, 115 latrines and 7 water pumps in Truitier were rehabilitated in
the endemic area in Port Au Prince. The Project contributed to the waste management and
environmental protection of the country through the installation of 12 incinerators, the emptying
of four septic tanks, and the construction of three ecological sanitary blocs. By Project
13
  Education activities focused on knowledge on symptoms (2 out of 2 symptoms: diarrhea rice color and vomiting)
and means of prevention (4 out of 6 prevention steps: hand washing, water treatment practice, not eat fruits and
vegetables not cleaned, eat hot meals, not defecating near water point source, household waste elimination far from
home).


                                                        13
completion, the percentage of the population in Project intervention areas with access to
improved water sources (PDO outcome indicator 2) increased from 78 percent in 2011 to 79
percent in 2013, achieving the 79 percent expected target, as shown in the CRD report.

42.     The Project highly achieved its second sub-objective of strengthening the
institutional capacity to respond to outbreaks with the full achievement of the related
outcome indicator: Increased institutional capacity as measured by achievement of at least four
out of five of Component 2 indicators on an annual basis (PDO outcome indicator No. 3). Three
out of four indicators used to measure this PDO indicator were surpassed.

 (i)   The number of personnel and community workers trained (intermediate outcome
       indicator 4) increased from 0 in 2010 to 5571 in 2013, surpassing the end of Project
       target of 2,633.
 (ii) The Departmental Cholera Management Plan developed (by MSPP and DINEPA) for at
       least five departments (intermediate outcome indicator 5) increased from 0 in 2010 to 6 in
       2013, surpassing the end of Project target of 5.
 (iii) The establishment and functioning of one national and five regional Cholera and
       Emergency Response Units (intermediate outcome indicator 6) increased from 0 in 2010
       to 7 in 2013, surpassing the end of Project target of 6.
 (iv) Quarterly Project progress reports submitted to Cholera Coordination Committee and to
       Bank (intermediate outcome indicator 7). At least 10 quarterly Project reports should be
       submitted during the period of the Project. In total, 17 quarterly (NGOs, MSPP,
       DINEPA) progress reports were developed and submitted, achieving its target.

43.     The Project contributed to improving Haiti’s epidemiological surveillance. The
revision of the National Epidemiological Surveillance Plan is now complete and the MSPP has
the capacity to report on statistical epidemiological profile of any potential epidemic in a weekly
basis through the support provided to the DELR and the National Laboratory of Public Health
(LNSP) among other partners. Surveillance capacity was strengthened through the reinforcement
of human and functioning resources. The process includes funding of a technical coordinator,
two epidemiologists and a data entry operator for DELR. In addition, a coordinator, technical
assistant, and field technicians were recruited, trained and are now in place to strengthen the
LNSP personnel. Moreover, inputs for basic laboratory operations (syringes, gloves, lab coats,
etc.) were procured by the Project to ensure infection prevention of the laboratory personnel.
Implementation of DINEPA related work has improved: (i) the Coordinators of the Departments
for Urgent Response and Information Management have been in place since the end of 2012; (ii)
12 water focal points have been in place in all ten departments since January 2013; and (iii) 82
technicians on water and sanitation (TEPAC) have been in place in three departments since
November 2012.

3.3    Efficiency

44.     Project efficiency was Substantial, with the economic and social benefits of the
Project outweighing the costs. The Project disbursed US$14.9 million (99.6% of the grant).
Direct and indirect costs were calculated to evaluate the efficiency and economic impact of the
Project. Direct costs are those associated with the provision of health care and stem from either
outpatient clinic use or hospitalization. Indirect costs are those associated with loss in

                                                14
productivity due to illness and death. Four scenarios were developed to take into account
variation in the cost of treatment (at a low and an intermediate level) as well as the number
people reached by the Project. In all four scenarios the Cost Benefit ratio is greater than one. The
two intermediate scenarios, which can be seen as the most plausible ones, have an Internal Rate
of Return (IRR) of 34 and 16 percent. Thus, health service delivery, health promotion and
hygiene practices as well as improvement in access to water in most affected areas were a set of
investments economically worthwhile in Haiti.

45.      The Project contributed to the net decrease in the spread of cholera between 2011
and March 2014. The cholera situation has greatly improved in Haiti thanks to the efforts of the
international community and the GOH. At Project closing, the cholera case fatality and incidence
rates were at their lowest level since 2010 (see Annex 10). The design of the Project contributed
to this important achievement through emergency health and water and sanitation interventions,
such as the provision of proximity treatment to infected patients, the implementation of health
and hygiene campaigns, community outreach activities and strengthening the Government’s
capacity to respond rapidly to emergencies, among others. Table 2 and Figure 1 below illustrate
the progress in the decrease of the cholera in Haiti. It should be noted that the 2012 increase in
CFR coincided with the increase of rainfall. 14

                        Table 2: Summary of cholera situation, Haiti, 2010 to 2014
 Year      Population    Cases     Hospitalized   Institutional   Community   Total     Hospitalized   Incidence
                         seen      cases          Deaths          Deaths      Deaths    lethality      rate per
                                                                                                       1,000
 2010*     10,085,214 185,351             103,728        2,521          1,580    4,101         2.43%        18.38
 2011      10,248,306 352,033             186,673        1,950            977    2,927         1.04%        34.35
 2012      10,413,211 101,503              61,877          597            311      908         0.96%         9.95
 2013      10,579,230       58,574         37,649          403            184      587         1.07%         5.54
 2014** 10,745,665            5,544         3,554           59              9        38        0.82%         0.52
*October to December 2010; ** May 31, 2014
Source: Statistic Profile of cholera epidemiologic week 22, National network surveillance report, MSPP, Direction
of Epidemiology, Laboratory and Research (DELR) - 31 May 2014




14
   Assistance Publique Hopitaux de Marseille (financed by UNICEF-Haiti) Report; Cholera Elimination in Haiti,
Situation in May 31, 2014.


                                                       15
      Fig 1. Trends in annual cholera case-fatality rate and number of cases of cholera in Haiti
                                            2010 to 2014


                            160000                               3.0
                            140000                               2.5
                                                                                            number




                                                                       case fatality rate
          number of cases


                            120000                                                          of cases
                            100000                               2.0
                             80000                               1.5
                             60000                               1.0
                             40000
                             20000                               0.5
                                 0                               0.0
                           2010 2011 2012 2013 2014
Source: Statistic Profile of cholera epidemiologic week 22, National network surveillance report, MSPP, DELR –
May 31, 2014

46.     The Project contributed to the reduction of cholera incidence and mortality.
Between 2010 and 2013, the cholera case fatality rate (CFR) in Project areas decreased by 1.8
percentage points, compared to the 1.2 percentage point decrease at the national level. This is a
noteworthy progress considering the high CFR in 2010 in the Project areas (2.7 percent) as
compared with the one at the national level (2.2 percent). This tends to confirm the effectiveness
of access to adequate treatment and quality of case management which the Project contributed to
by establishing 174 oral rehydration points and 82 cholera treatment units at the community
level. Please see Annex 10 for additional information.

3.4   Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

47.    The overall outcome rating is Satisfactory. This rating is based on the following
considerations: (i) the Project objectives, design and implementation are highly relevant to the
Haitian country context and global priorities; (ii) Modest and High ratings in achieving its
intended outcomes, as measured by both sub-objectives and (iii) Substantial efficiency.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

48.    The strengthening of the epidemiological system and health system’s capacity to
respond to outbreak as well as the implementation of community health and hygiene
education likely benefitted the lower population deciles. Cholera epidemics are a marker for
poverty and lack of basic sanitation. The rapid spread of the disease was mainly due to the lack
of immunity and the very limited access of the population to safe water and basic sanitation in a
context of internal migrations after the January 2010 earthquake. The Project addressed this
challenge by strengthening the epidemiological surveillance system to better target interventions,
improving the health system’s capacity to respond to emergencies, and implementing community
education on health and hygiene practices toward the poorest populations.

                                                     16
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     The Project helped to strengthen the capacity of FAES, MSPP and DINEPA in
seven Departments to prevent and contain cholera and other water borne-diseases. Project
execution resulted in the buildup of in-house capability. The Project supported DINEPA and
MSPP through the development and finalization of the National Plan of Epidemiological
Surveillance, capacity building activities and the upgrading of national standards for biomedical
waste management and the Hygiene Promotion Plan. Institutional capacity at the departmental
level increased through the development of Departmental Cholera Management Plans supported
by the Project and training to institutional personnel. As a result of the Project, previous stand–
alone cholera treatment activities and sites are now part of the existing health systems at the
departmental level. In addition, the implementation of Project activities promoted the
collaboration at the departmental level authorities, particularly between the health and water
authorities as well as local FAES.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative): N/A

3.6    Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops: N/A

4.    Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Significant

50.     Technically, improvements in approaches to community services are likely to be
sustained. There are high levels of political support at the central level (FAES, MSPP and
DINEPA) and an ever increasing recognition of the importance of reducing cholera epidemic.
This is further substantiated through the declared interests of the GOH to invest further in the
elimination of cholera and the fact that a follow-on investment with the World Bank (US$90
million Maternal and Child Health Project) allocated US$20 million to cholera related
interventions. This support is important for the country as the cholera outbreak has evolved since
2010 and is now endemic not only to Haiti, but in the whole island of Hispaniola. Evidence from
other outbreaks in Latin America indicates that cholera will likely remain a serious public health
challenge for several more years, because the bacteria is in the environment and sporadic cases
will always be detected. Nevertheless, the Project suffered to some extent from limited
ownership by local government and communities, indicating a risk that the momentum gained
and efforts achieved could be lost if efforts are not sustained.

51.    One of the main risks to the development outcome relates to the institutional setting
in Haiti. The contributions of the Project to the DINEPA, MSPP national strategy to prevent
cholera and Project annual plans, among others, have reduced the risk of the spread of cholera.
Nevertheless, the volatility of the political context, high staff rotation/turnover constitutes
substantial risk. The new Maternal and Child Health Project cited above is facilitating the
development of a new Results-based Financing program that represents an important milestone
towards more sustainable development results.

52.    The lack of a dedicated multi-sectoral governance structure accountable for
preventing and containing Cholera, and of coordinating government bodies and donor
intervention poses a risk to the development outcome. Given the diverse set of determinants
of cholera, there may be uncertainty as to which sector or entity should lead the implementation

                                                17
of a comprehensive package of community services. The importance of a multisectoral action to
prevent cholera is critical, and since cholera has "fecal-oral" transmission and 88 percent of cases
of diarrhea worldwide are attributable to unsafe water, insufficient hygiene and inadequate
sanitation, the emphasis should be put on water, sanitation and hygiene interventions.
Government leadership is essential to ensure that sectoral roles and responsibilities are well
defined from central to community levels.

53.     The lack of sustained funding for cholera poses a risk to maintaining the
momentum. As stated in the United Nations plan to support the implementation of the GOH’s
two-year plan on cholera elimination (January 2013), the lack of sustained funding has
dramatically decreased capacity to respond effectively. In addition, Haiti has received less than a
quarter of the US$40 million required for immediate humanitarian needs.

5.     Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1    Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

54.      World Bank performance on ensuring Quality at Entry is rated Moderately
Satisfactory. The Project objectives were relevant and firmly supported GOH and global
priorities. Project design capitalized on the relevant knowledge, lessons learned on previous
World Bank experiences in dealing with cholera epidemics and international experience and
discussions with relevant stakeholders. The World Bank team preparing the Project comprised a
range of skills, knowledge and operational experiences, which allowed a quick preparation. The
Project was jointly prepared with key stakeholders and the World Bank team was able to closely
coordinate with strategic partners since then. However, human resource needs and constraints to
establish inter-ministerial or inter-organizational teams were underestimated at preparation stage,
which had an impact on the implementation of Project activities. In addition, the likelihood of
having M&E constraints during project implementation was underestimated during Project
preparation and M&E risks were not included in the risk matrix. Weaknesses in the M&E
framework negatively weight on the rating because although it was methodological sound and
provided elements to measure Project achievements, it suffered from substantial delays on data
availability, which may have impacted on implementation of Project activities and its results.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Satisfactory

55.     The Project benefited from a steady and committed World Bank team, which
successfully identified and resolved Project obstacles along the way. World Bank team
worked very closely with Project counterparts. Through intense supervision, the team was able to
provide extensive support and timely input to the client. The team worked to resolve issues
delaying implementation, urging intensive remedial action on the part of the Government Project
team. The team’s strategy of holding shorter but more frequent missions, as well as a focus on
short-term achievements provided easier implementation objectives. Agreeing on specific short-
term action plans with the client, setting specific goals and deadlines proved crucial in keeping
Project momentum. The Bank team hired a field based implementation consultant to provide
intensive support to FAES on a daily basis and the World Bank team conducted monthly follow
                                                18
up meetings with the client beyond the regular scheduled missions until the Project closed. The
World Bank team, however, should have provided better support to FAES in terms of financial
management to ensure prompt disbursements. World Bank team ensured adequate transition
arrangements for the implementation of the new Maternal and Child Health Project, including
the appointment of financial management staff for Bank-financed projects and the assessment of
the public financial management systems of the MSPP. Based on this evaluation, a capacity
building program has been developed and a MSPP Accounting, Financial and Administrative
Manual produced with Bank support.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

56.     Given the Moderately Satisfactory Bank performance at Quality at Entry and the
Satisfactory performance during Project supervision, the overall rating for the Bank performance
is Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2    Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.    Government performance is rated Moderately Satisfactory. There were
shortcomings in Government performance considering the slow speed of Project
implementation. Government involvement and political commitment to the Project was
extremely good during Project preparation. Project implementation was slow in spite of the
adoption of various measures, including increased frequency of technical and management
support meetings. Frequent changes in Government staff, both due to administration changes
and general turnover, bureaucratic process and financing delays during the life of the Project
contributed to a challenging implementation environment. Staff changes occurred at the central
and Departmental levels. During the course of the Project, there were five different Director
General at FAES and most of the Departmental Directors also changed.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

58.     The rating for FAES performance is similar to that of the overall Government since
similar issues apply. Performance of the implementing agencies under the Project was in
general influenced by great dedication of the core team, but constrained by insufficient human
resources and capacities, especially within the area of procurement and financial management.
Throughout implementation, FAES was unable to provide current disbursement rates and
accurate projections. Some disbursement requests or direct payment from the World Bank, which
would have alleviated some of the implementation problems, did not materialize. Requests for
disbursement were either not properly submitted or submitted with significant delay. This
resulted in delays in delivering planned actions and activities. Delays in obtaining FAES
approval on all fiduciary activities by the management level delayed the implementation of the
plan and completion of activities. The task team had to address the problem of quality of data to
prepare the current ICR. The lack of a robust health management information system within the
MSPP remains one of the Project's weakest areas.


                                               19
(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.    For reasons outlined above, the overall borrower performance is rated Moderately
Satisfactory.

6.          Lessons Learned

60.         The following lessons learned can be mentioned as key in particular.

     (i)    Project design in an emergency situation needs to consider the balance of
            responding to urgent versus long term needs. In an emergency situation, the usual
            intervention strategy is to reduce deaths by ensuring prompt access to treatment and
            responding to shorter term needs. It might have been a good practice to evaluate the
            Project at the level of outputs (affected population knowledge, use of preventive products
            or services) specifically for the two- year period of the Project. Indeed, behavior change
            and the access to adequate sanitation infrastructure need longer period of time to be
            expected to change.

     (ii)   Institutional capacity and readiness. The implementation agencies' institutional
            capacity and readiness should not be underestimated or considered less important in
            emergency situations. The World Bank's strategy of involving experienced NGOs in
            Project implementation due to the need of a rapid response to the epidemic and to the
            initial lack of capacity of the Government may have contributed to diminish the MSPP's
            stewardship role.

     (iii) In countries where cholera outbreaks follow seasonal cycles, training of health care
           workers prior to the epidemic may help to increase awareness. Especially relevant is
           providing information on standard case definition15 and case management. This course
           of action combined with the informative watch campaign to the most at risk population in
           any cholera red zone can further increase awareness, ensure adequate diagnosis and
           ultimately prevent the epidemic from occurring again.

     (iv) Coordination of service delivery at decentralized level and better communication of
          the Project activities ensure community participation and ownership of
          interventions. The decentralized decision making process helped the implementation of
          the safeguard management/mitigation as an example, to ensure appropriate elimination,
          after emptying septic tanks, the local authorities designed a landfill site for the
          community, in compliance with environmental standards, in order to protect the coastline
          and avoid the contamination of the groundwater.


15
  WHO case definition: a case of cholera should be suspected when: (i) in an area where the disease is not known to
be present, a patient aged 5 years or more develops severe dehydration or dies from acute watery diarrhea; or (ii) in
an area where there is a cholera epidemic, a patient aged 5 years or more develops acute watery diarrhea, with or
without vomiting. A case of cholera is confirmed when Vibrio cholera O1 or o139 is isolated from any patient with
diarrhea.


                                                        20
     (v)   Consistency of emergency policies (OP/BP 8.00) with other fiduciary policies. Even
           though OP/BP 8.0 operational guiding principles have been developed bearing in mind
           the need to respond with speed, simplicity and flexibility in emergency situations, the
           policy is not fully aligned with other fiduciary policies and guidelines, such as
           procurement. The implementation of the Project demonstrated that World Bank
           procurement processes need to be more flexible in emergency situations.

     (vi) Projects with weak counterpart administrative capacity require innovative
          approaches to supervision and strong stakeholder commitment. Continued capacity
          building of implementing agency in all aspects of Project implementation, procurement
          and financial management needs to be emphasized. In a situation of limited capacity and
          a variety of actors involved in reviewing and financing approval, more thought should be
          given to how to more effectively strengthen existing structure (public and non-public).

     (vii) Monitoring and Evaluation - Tracking results in real time is crucial for controlling
           cholera epidemics. Collecting and analyzing quality data on the dynamics of the
           epidemic and on the behaviors of the population is crucial. This enables strategy
           discussions and shaping the relevant response to the epidemic. Specifically, baseline data
           collection should be conducted earlier in the Project implementation and by a third party
           rather than the same NGO service providers implementing the activities to avoid conflict
           of interest. Strong health information system should be putted in place to ensure better
           monitoring and evaluation of cholera response Projects. Project staff and partners need to
           be trained in a common methodology for gathering, recording, and documenting indicator
           data. To do this effectively, department offices need to have M&E specialists. Data
           audits, carried out by an internal or third party auditor, are as important as financial audits
           in verifying that a project is on track in achieving project results transparently.

     (viii) World Bank financial and human resources in responding to public health
            emergencies. There are a number of aspects that the World Bank needs to consider when
            responding to public health emergencies. First, the preparation of epidemic-related
            operations requires even greater urgency in response, since the emergency is ongoing and
            possibly expanding exponentially. Second, the preparation of these operations requires
            sufficient budget allocation to put together strong teams to avoid flaws in terms of design,
            analysis of implementation capacity and assessments of risks. In this case, the Project
            preparation team could have benefited from having a monitoring and evaluation expert to
            help detect possible risks and include the necessary mitigation measures.

7.     Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
       (a) Borrower/implementing agencies:
61.    FAES, DINEPA and MSPP reviewed a draft of this Implementation Completion
and Results Report. Comments were provided by FAES on the following sections: (i)
Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance; (ii) Achievement of Project Development Objectives; (iii)
Borrower Performance; and (iv) Annex 7.

           (b) Cofinanciers: N/A

           (c) Other partners and stakeholders: N/A

                                                     21
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                    Actual/Latest
                                 Appraisal Estimate                    Percentage of
          Components                                Estimate (USD
                                  (USD millions)                        Appraisal
                                                       millions)
1. Support to the Government’s
Response to Cholera at the              11.00             11.00           100.00
Decentralized Level
2. Emergency Response Capacity
                                         4.00              3.95           98.75
Building
Total Baseline Cost                     15.00             14.95           99.67
Physical Contingencies                   0.00              0.00            0.00
Price Contingencies                      0.00              0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs         0.00              0.00
Front-end fee PPF                        0.00              0.00            0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                       0.00              0.00            0.00
      Total Financing Required          15.00             14.95           99.67


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                     Type of       Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                   Cofinancing       (USD        (USD        Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
Borrower                                          0.00        0.00          0.00
IDA Grant                                        15.00       14.95         99.67




                                         22
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.      The Project had three Project outcome indicators and eight intermediate outcome
indicators. Two out of three Project outcome indicators and seven out of eight intermediate
outcome indicators were fully achieved. Only one Project outcome indicator was partially
achieved and one intermediate outcome indicator was not achieved. Despite significant issues
with implementation delays, the Project utilized nearly the totality of the grant.

2.     The Project was organized around two components and the following presents the outputs
from each component.

Component 1: Support to the Government’s Response to Cholera at the Decentralized
Level

3.     The Component 1 was successful in supporting the Government’s Response to Cholera at
the Decentralized Level. The objective of this component was to carry out a program of activities
for immediate response to cholera, as outlined in the National Strategy for the Response to the
Cholera Epidemic and defined at the departmental level to support Government’s emergency
response to cholera. This component sought to respond to the needs of the departmental level
through support to all service providers, whether public, mixed or private, undertaking
interventions at all levels of the cholera response. This component financed two sub-
components: (i) Sub-component 1.1: Support to a Multi-sectoral Approach to Public Primary
Health Care; and (ii) Sub-component 1.2: Support to the Health, Water and Sanitations Response
of Non-Public Providers.

4.     The activities under this component contributed to the achievement of the first and
second PDO indicators. The results achieved are as follows:

 (i)    The percentage of population in interventions areas knowing the cholera early warning
        symptoms increased from 64 to 82 percent surpassing its target of 69 percent;
 (ii) The percentage of population knowing cholera prevention steps slightly improved from
        13 to 14 percent but did not reach the target of 18 percent;
 (iii) Almost 4,500 localities received health education and/or prevention activities, surpassing
        the target of 2,214;
 (iv) Cholera treatment has been integrated into the existing health facilities through the
        creation of 16 rooms for diarrheal diseases treatment across the six departments of
        intervention;
 (v) More than 250 health facilities were supported. This includes 82 health centers and posts,
        treatment centers and units surpassing the target of 42;
 (vi) The percentage of population in intervention areas with access to improved water sources
        or treated water slightly improved from 78 to 79 percent;
 (vii) The number of people receiving water treatment products and soap increased from less
        than 200,000 to almost 800,000;
 (viii) Over 50 latrines and seven water pumps in Truitier, an endemic area in Port Au Prince,
        were rehabilitated and are in use and managed by local community organizations; and



                                               23
 (ix) All facilities benefited from technical and financial support for waste management and
      environmental protection, including the installation of eight incinerators acquired by the
      MSPP, four incinerators acquired and installed by the Project, the emptying of four septic
      tanks, and the construction of three ecological sanitary blocs.

Component 2: Emergency Response Capacity Building

5.     The Project was successful in building capacity to respond to the emergency. This
component financed activities to support the successful implementation of Component 1 and
ensure that the MSPP and DINEPA were prepared to tackle cholera and other possible water-
borne diseases. As such, this component supported a number of emergency response capacity
building activities for MSPP and DINEPA as well as overall Project management and
supervision through two sub-components: (i) Sub-component 2.1: Strengthening Government’s
capacity to manage and respond to outbreaks; and (ii) Sub-component 2.2: Carrying out a
program of activities to support the management of Project, including monitoring, supervision
and audits.

6.      The activities under this component contributed to the achievement of the third PDO
indicator. The results achieved under this component are as follows:

 (i)   All six intervention Departments have a Departmental Cholera Management Plan;
 (ii)  A national cholera focal point and six coordinators at the Departmental level are in their
       position;
 (iii) The Project supported the DELR and the LNSP through the field technicians collecting
       specimen to detect cholera cases as well as the development and finalization (including
       recent validation by the Minister) of the National Plan of Epidemiological Surveillance;
 (iv) The Project supported the DINEPA through the TEPACs and the rehabilitation of at least
       20 water points;
 (v) The Project contributed to the upgrade of the national Standards for Biomedical Waste
       Management and the Hygiene Promotion Plan. It also provided financial, technical and
       training support at all levels; and
 (vi) More than 5,500 community agents, supervisors, and institutional personnel throughout
       the 6 departments were recruited and trained, far exceeding the Project target of 2,633.




                                              24
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The present Annex presents the results of the economic evaluation of the Project.
The analysis considered direct and indirect costs saved (benefits) and the cost of investment
to calculate the Cost-Benefit Ratio (CBR) of the Project. This analysis aims to evaluate the
economic impact of the Project whose objective was to improve the health and hygiene practices
in order to reduce the spread of cholera and strengthen the institutional capacity to respond to
outbreaks. The main outcome for this evaluation were the number of cases averted (hospitalized
and outpatient) and deaths. The direct costs were based on the cost of treatment due to the lower
number of cholera cases and the indirect costs were calculated as the loss in productivity due to
illness and premature mortality due to cholera.

2.      The analysis considered only a proportion of the targeted population that could be
reached by the Project. Though the Project targeted seven departments, activities were carried
out in some localities within those departments. The population in each of those departments and
in the localities of intervention is presented in Table 3.1. The MSPP and DINEPA coordinated
all cholera response activities with international partners. Under their coordination, a project
financed by the IDB and implemented by UNICEF was also approved at the end of 2010 to carry
out activities to control cholera in the Great North (North-West, North and North-East
departments). This explains why, in spite of the high disease prevalence, the World Bank-
financed Project has not intervened in the North.

             Table 3.1: Population at departmental level and in localities of intervention
                                                                                   % of Population in
             Departmental                 Population in localities of
  Department                                                                        Departments of
              Population                        intervention
                                                                                     Intervention
   Artibonite              1,571,020                            1,378,570                   88%
   Centre                    678,626                              531,534                   78%
   Grande-Anse               425,878                              265,051                   62%
   Nippes                    311,497                              196,744                   63%
  West                     3,664,620                              524,137                   14%
   South                     704,760                              354,703                   50%
   South-East                575,293                              425,352                   74%
   Total                   7,356,401                            3,250,739                   44%
 Source: Own calculations based on data from the Haitian Institute of Statistics and Informatics 2009 (1)

3.     The analysis considered two scenarios to calculate the impact of the Project on the
population reached (on cholera cases and deaths averted) in the localities of intervention. In
both scenarios, the underlying principle was that the percentage of all cases/deaths averted that
was attributable to the World Bank Project should be equal to the percentage of total new
financing for anti-cholera activities that came from the World Bank Project (within the localities
covered by the World Bank Project) – we refer to this percentage as X percent.




                                                       25
4.       While data constraints make it impossible to know the value of X with precision, it
should not be far from 100 percent, because MSPP and DINEPA made explicit efforts to
coordinate the response and ensure that partners’ support was distributed meaningfully across the
country. (At the beginning of the epidemic cholera spread quickly to all ten departments.) In the
localities covered by the World Bank Project, this Project was thus the main financing source for
new activities against cholera, in line with the principle – adopted by MSPP and DINEPA – that
each major partner should be “assigned” particular localities where they should be the main
partner financing new anti-cholera activities. The World Bank Project was thus assigned
localities with a combined population of 3.2 million (as in Table 3.1), which is around 31 percent
of the total population in Haiti of 10.3 million. This is in line with the available total financing
for cholera of US$14.9 million disbursed for the World Bank Project, which was more than 30
percent of the total financing for cholera from major partners, 16 according to a mapping of
funding carried out by the Cholera Coalition in 2012 (2).

5.       Although X should be close to 100 percent in practice, it is possible that the fall in cases
and deaths were partly due to other unobserved or unknown factors that are not apparent from
the available information. Although each major partner in the anti-cholera effort was assigned
some localities, the incidence of cholera in any one locality is certainly also affected by activities
in other localities, given the contagious nature of cholera and its ease of spread between different
localities. This means that the falls in cholera cases/deaths observed in the World Bank Project
localities could have been due partly to interventions elsewhere, although similarly the
interventions of the Project in its localities could also have had a positive impact elsewhere.

6.      To be conservative, we thus produced estimates for two Scenarios – one where X was 33
percent (one third) and another where X was 66 percent (two thirds). It should be noted that both
of these (especially the 33 percent estimate) are likely to be underestimates of the true value of
X.

7.       For each of these two scenarios, number of cases (hospitalized and non-hospitalized) and
deaths averted in the localities of intervention were calculated. The fall in the number of new
cases and the fall in the number of new deaths in Period 1 (2011 -2012) and Period 2 (2012-
2013) in the localities of intervention – based on actual recorded data – were used as the basis for
the calculations as shown in Table 3.3. The total number of averted cases and averted deaths was
assumed to be equal to the fall in the total number of cases and of deaths, respectively, in the
localities of intervention.

8.      In scenario 1, the number of averted outpatient cholera cases attributable to the World
Bank Project for both periods combined was found to be 17,491 (15,743 + 1,748 in Table 3.2)
and the number of averted hospitalized cases attributable to the World Bank Project was 15,024
(13,159 + 1865). As for averted deaths, scenario 1 found a decrease of 353 (311 + 42)
attributable to the Project. In turn, Scenario 2 found a decrease of 34,982 (31,487 + 3,495) and
30,048 cases (26,318 + 3,729) for outpatient and hospitalized cases respectively that were


16
  This excludes financing from IDB and AECID/FCAS for water infrastructure projects focusing mainly on urban
areas. Their operations started much before the cholera outbreak and did not explicitly target areas with high cholera
incidence.


                                                         26
attributable to the Project, over the entire period. In Scenario 2, a decrease of 705 (621 + 84 in
Table 3.2) deaths was found to be attributable to the Project in the localities of intervention.

               Table 3.2: Number of averted cases and deaths in the localities of intervention
                        Outpatient cases       Hospitalized cases     Deaths
Department              2011-2012 2012-2013 2011-2012 2012-2013 2011-2012 2012-2013
Artibonite                 22,908        1,591    12,535          542        264    1
Centre                      7,206          378     5,497        1,801        119   37
Grande-Anse*                2,019          495     4,208      (1,529)        203  (4)
Nippes                      1,277           92     1,671          609         29   21
West                        7,635        2,410     7,887        2,492        165   30
South                       5,834           54     4,778        1,381         50   18
South-East                    351          223     2,901          298        102   23
Total                      47,230        5,243    39,477        5,594        932 126
Total attributable to
Project (scenario 1)        15,743          1,748        13,159       1,865            311             42
Total attributable to
Project (scenario 2)        31,487          3,495        26,318       3,729            621             84
Source: Own calculations based on information from MSPP database

9.     Note: Negative numbers of Grande Anse are due to two effects. The first is the cholera
spike in the rainy season of 2013, and the second the improvements in cases recoded by the
system of epidemiological surveillance. The analysis takes into account these negative values
reducing the amount saved due to averted cases.

10.     To assess the efficiency and economic impact of the Project, the benefits were
estimated as the direct and indirect costs saved from the averted cases and deaths. The
benefits stemmed from the direct costs were the cost of treatment saved due to the number
of averted cases. Direct costs are those associated with the provision of health care. It is
assumed that the only direct costs for cholera stem from either outpatient clinic use or
hospitalization. Calculations were based on the costs proposed by University of Pittsburgh
Medical Center (UPMC) for Health Security based on World Health-Organization- Choosing
Interventions that are Cost-Effective (WHO-CHOICE) data. The Infectious Disease Cost
Calculator (elaborated by the UPMC) presents an estimate of the cost of treatment that a patient
could have in the Americas’ Region per day (1). It differentiates the costs of treatment according
to whether the country has a very low, low or high mortality rate in children and adults. For this
analysis we have taken into account two different cost estimates. Scenario A assumes a low cost
of treatment (for a country with high mortality) and scenario B assumes an intermediate cost of
treatment (for a country with low mortality). Although cholera continues to afflict Haiti, between
2011 and 2013 there was a reduction of more than 80 percent in the new number of cases and
deaths and the fatality decreased at less than 1 percent. Therefore, the scenario B with an
intermediate cost alternative for countries with low mortality also seems appropriate. The
information on the daily cost of treatment for a cholera patient in the Americas Region is
presented in Table 3.3. It is assumed that that the normal period of illness of cholera is 7 days if
the patient does not attend a health facility, and 5 days of illness if the patient is treated by health
professionals (3).

                                                    27
              Table 3.3: Daily costs of treatment of Cholera in the America’s Region
         Cholera Treatment Cost                                 Inpatient        Clinic
                                                                (US$)            (US$)
         High mortality for children and adults (low cost, 50.68                 9.66
         Scenario A)
         Low mortality for children and adults (intermediate 162.96              22.83
         cost, Scenario B )
         Very low mortality for children and adults (high cost, 665.45           65.5
         was not used)
       Source: University of Pittsburgh Medical Center UPMC, 2010 (4)


11.     The benefits derived from the indirect costs are those associated with the loss in
productivity avoided due to illness and death averted. This analysis calculates benefits
derived from indirect cost in two ways. The first is the value of lost productivity due to illness,
which is assumed to be the labor days lost to illness multiplied by the average daily per capita
gross domestic product (GDP). To account for productivity losses from a caregiver, an additional
0.5 days of per capita GDP is assumed for every day a person was ill. The second indirect cost is
calculated as the value of the Years of Life Lost (YLL) due to premature mortality because of
cholera (5, 6). This value is assumed to be the discounted stream of foregone earnings due to a
person that dies due to cholera, and the earnings in each year are assumed to be equal to the per-
capita GDP (for each person), taking into account the growth in per-capita GDP over time. The
calculation differentiates between under-five children and those older than five (adults and
children), since there is some difference between these two groups in terms of the impact of
cholera. Specifically, it is assumed that: (i) 8 percent of cholera cases in Haiti are accounted for
by under-five children (calculation based on MSPP surveillance data); (ii) life expectancy is 62
years; (iii) the mean age of older cholera patients (aged over 5) is 30 years old and is 3 years old
for the under-5 patients; (iv) the age when people start to work is 18 years old; (v) the
estimations used the discount rate of 3 percent, as recommended by the World Health
Organization for all diarrheal diseases, and which is used in several analyses of cholera (7, 8).
The calculations incorporate US$819.9 as the value for the GDP per capita in 2013 (9). This
methodology produced estimates of US$26,210 for the value of an adult life lost (or anyone aged
over 5), and US$35,874 for an under-five child. The years of life lost due to Disability were not
calculated. Therefore, Disability-Adjusted Life Years Lost (DALYs) analysis is not presented,
and is not taken into account in the calculations. The figures presented are thus underestimates;
the estimated indirect costs would be much higher if DALYs were incorporated in the
calculations. The indirect impact of the program on the non-targeted population is not included
in the analysis either.

12.     Due to the lack of consideration of other direct and indirect costs, the Project's
impact is underestimated and thus, the net benefit would in practice be much higher. The
analysis only took into account the direct cost of cholera treatment and no other indirect costs
such as transport cost, social prejudice of being sick and the discomfort caused by cholera among
others. In addition, the benefits do not consider the positive externalities that the Project may
have had outside the areas of intervention, nor reductions in the incidence of other diseases (e.g.
waterborne diseases other than cholera). In addition, the low cost treatment option revealed an

                                                    28
average cost per case (outpatient and hospitalized) of US$144.77 which is much lower than the
average cost per case of US$327 estimated with the Infectious Disease Cost Calculator when
using data for Haiti(1). That may indicate that the low cost treatment option may indeed
underestimate the benefits of saved costs. Regarding the number of cases and deaths, the
reduction of number of cases/deaths between 2010 and 2011 was not taken into account (only the
reduction between 2011-2012 and 2012-2013). Since the Project started in February 2011, the
analysis could have considered that impact. However, since the epidemic started in October, it
was difficult to find a comparable timeframe for October- December and therefore we compared
the changes that occurred during the three full years for which data were available. This might
also underestimate the number of cases.

13.     Four scenarios were developed to account for the variation in the extent of
attribution in intervention areas to the Project (Scenarios 1 and 2) and for the cost of
treatment at a low and an intermediate level (Scenario A and B). In all four scenarios the
CBR is greater than one. Table 3.4 shows the breakdown in the benefits derived from the direct
and indirect costs (from illness and deaths) saved due to the averted number of cases and deaths.
The total benefits are the result of summing up the benefits from direct and indirect costs averted
in each scenario. The CBR is calculated as the ratio of total benefits to total investment costs of
more than 14.9 million disbursed by the Project. Given the Haitian context and taking into
account the impact of fewer cases and lower cholera fatality rates on the costs of treatment,
Scenario 1B is probably the most plausible scenario followed by Scenario 2A. The Internal Rate
of Return 17 (IRR) was also calculated for each scenario, being 34 and 16 percent for Scenarios
1B and 2A, respectively. To sum up, the present analysis reveals that the health service delivery,
health promotion and hygiene practices as well as improvement in access to clean water in most
affected areas were a set of investments economically worthwhile in Haiti.




17
  The Internal Rate of Return is the discount rate that makes the Net Present Value of all cash flows (both positive
and negative, i.e. benefits as well as costs) from a particular investment equal to zero.


                                                        29
              Table 3.4: Total benefits and benefit-cost ratio in different scenarios in US$
   Scenarios        Benefits           Benefit from indirect cost saved
                    from direct        from productivity loss saved     Total                     Benefit-
                    cost saved                                          Benefits                  Cost
                    Treatment          Due       to Due to mortality    (US$)                     Ratio
                    cost               illness
Scenario 1A         4,780,971          781,061      9,542,576           15,104,607                1.01
Scenario 1B         14,653,180         781,061      9,542,576           4,976,817                 1.67
Scenario 2A         9,561,941          1,562,122    19,085,152          30,209,215                2.02
Scenario 2B         29,306,360         1,562,122    19,085,152          49,953,633                3.35
Source: Own calculations
Note:
Scenario 1A: Low Reach (one third of cases/deaths in intervention areas attributable to Project) & Low treatment
cost.
Scenario 1B: Low Reach (one third of cases/deaths in intervention areas attributable to Project) & Intermediate
treatment cost.
Scenario 2A: Higher Reach (two thirds of cases/deaths in intervention areas attributable to Project) & Low treatment
cost.
Scenario 2B: Higher Reach (two thirds of cases/deaths in intervention areas attributable to Project) & Intermediate
treatment cost.




                                                        30
Annex 3. References

   (1) Institute Haitïen de Statistique et d'Informatique. Population totale, population de 18 ans
       et plus ménages et densités estimés en 2009.

   (2) PAHO. Mapping of Coalition Contributions to the Cholera Elimination Initiative in Haiti.
       Summary report, 2012. 23 pages. Mimeo.

   (3) UPMC Center for Health Security. Infectious Disease Cost Calculator. Cholera Cost
       Model Methods. [Online] 2012. [Cited: April 30, 2014.]
       http://www.idcostcalc.org/contents/cholera/cost-model.html.

   (4) University of Guelph. Food Safety Network. Vidrio Cholerae. [Online] June 31, 2012.
       [Cited: April 29, 2014.] https://www.uoguelph.ca/foodsafetynetwork/vibrio-cholerae.

   (5) World Health Organization. Metrics: Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY). Health
       statistics and information systems. [Online] 2014. [Cited: May 24, 2014.]
       http://www.who.int/healthinfo/global_burden_disease/metrics_daly/en/.

   (6) Ali, Mohammad, et al. The global burden of cholera. Bulletin of the World Health
       Organization. [Online] World Health Organization, March 2012.
       http://www.who.int/bulletin/volumes/90/3/BLT-11-093427-table-T3.html.

   (7) Costs of illness due to Cholera, costs of immunization, and Cost-Effectiveness of an Oral
       Cholera Mass Vaccination Campaign in Zanzibar. Schaetti, Christian, et al. 10, Geneva:
       PLOS Neglected Tropical Disease, 2012, Vol. 6. doi:10.1371/journal.pntd.0001844.

   (8) Economic burden of cholera in the WHO African region. Kirigia, Joses, et al. 8, 2009,
       BMC International Health and Human Rights, Vol. 9.

   (9) World Development Indicators. World Bank. [accessed: June 29, 2014]




                                               31
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members
            Names                                    Title                         Unit
Maryanne Sharp                   Former Task Team Leader                          LCC2C
Eleonora Del Valle Cavagnero     Task Team Leader                                 GHNDR
Francesca Lamanna                Co-Task Team Leader                              GSPDR
Hassine Hedda                    Senior Finance Officer                           CTRLA
Prosper Nindorera                Senior Procurement Specialist                    GGODR
Franck Bessette                  Senior Financial Management Specialist           GGODR
Josue Akre                       Financial Management Specialist                  GGODR
Helene Bertaud                   Senior Counsel                                   LEGAM
Valerie Hickey                   Senior Biodiversity Specialist                   GENDR
Miguel-Santiago da Silva
                                 Senior Finance Officer                           CTRLN
Oliveira
Alois Ndorere                    Consultant                                       AFTPW
Kathleen E. Krackenberger        Consultant                                       GHNDR
Jimena Jesus Mejia               Consultant                                       GHNDR
Emmanuel Ngollo                  Consultant                                       GENDR
Viviana Gonzalez                 Team Assistant                                   GHNDR
 Supervision/ICR
Claudia Macias                    ICR Task Team Leader and Primary Author         GHNDR
Voahirana Rajoela                 ICR Primary Author                              GHNDR
Eleonora Del Valle Cavagnero      Economist/Economic Analysis                     GHNDR
Andrew Sunil Rajkumar             Senior Economist/Economic Analysis              GHNDR
Daniela Pena de Lima              Senior Operations Officer/Quality Review        GHNDR
Viviana A. Gonzalez               Program Assistant                               GHNDR

(b) Staff Time and Cost

                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including travel
                         No. of staff weeks
                                                          and consultant costs)
Lending
FY2011                          29                              128,811
Sub-total:                      29                              128,811
                Total:
                                                     US Thousands (including travel
Supervision/ICR            Staff Weeks
                                                         and consultants costs)
FY 2011                         25                             164,376
FY 2012                         52                             277,263

                                                32
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                               USD Thousands (including travel
                         No. of staff weeks
                                                          and consultant costs)
FY 2013                          23                             165,526
FY 2014                          25                             114,238
Sub-total:                      125
                Total:          154                             721,403




                                                33
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
N/A




                                      34
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
N/A




                                        35
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

        COMPLETION REPORT CHOLERA EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROJECT

7.1      Context of the Project, Development Objectives, and Design

1.      Cholera did not exist in Haiti 18. It appeared in the country in October 2010, putting the
entire country at risk because the population had no immunity against the disease. In addition,
over the past five years, Haiti has demonstrated its vulnerability to a wide range of economic and
social crises as well as numerous shocks such as natural disasters (four consecutive hurricanes in
one year in 2008: Faye, Gustave, Hannah and Ike). The precarious humanitarian situation that
followed the earthquake of January 12, 2010 also exacerbated the epidemic. This disaster has
stripped the areas of Port-au-Prince (West), Léogane (West) and Jacmel (South-East) of their
most important infrastructure, including schools, hospitals, housing, electricity, water and
telecommunications, and caused enormous loss of life. Estimates indicate that nearly 3 million
people were affected by the earthquake and more than 200,000 people were killed, while
300,000 people were injured and 1 million people were left homeless and living in camps
throughout Port-au-Prince and other cities. Hurricane Thomas hit Haiti on November 5, 2010
and caused flooding, landslides, loss of harvests in some regions of the country, which
aggravated the already precarious living conditions. This was compounded by the cholera
epidemic that caused 2,193 deaths and 46,749 hospitalizations as of December 6, 2010, and put
200,000 people at risk of infection and 10,000 at risk of death in the six months that followed 19.

2.      The Government of the country, in partnership with a number of organizations,
established an Emergency Cholera Coordination Committee that was quickly put in place by the
Department of Civil Protection, in collaboration with MSPP at the central level and the
corresponding committees at the departmental and municipal levels. MSPP led the humanitarian
response, with technical support from PAHO/WHO, mobilizing partners from all sectors
including health, education and communication to ensure a rapid and synchronized response on
the ground.

3.       MSPP developed the National Response Strategy to the Cholera Epidemic, which
describes essential activities at two levels of intervention, namely at community level, and at
institutional level, ensuring support of referrals, mild cases as well as the most serious cases.

4.      DINEPA also developed a National Water and Sanitation Strategy with similar
objectives, supporting activities limiting the cholera epidemic through short-term improvements
in the provision of water, an increase in hygiene promotion and health education campaigns, the
strengthening of sanitation and waste management as well as effective coordination with local
authorities.



18
  JENSON D., SZABO V., and the Duke FHI Haiti Humanities Laboratory student Research Team University,
November 2011, Emerging infectious diseases: Cholera in Haiti and other Caribbean Regions, 19th Century.

19
     MSPP/OPS-OMS


                                                    36
5.      To meet the challenges brought by the cholera epidemic, the Bank made a
USD 15 million equivalent grant available to the Government of Haiti through a fast-tracked
Cholera Emergency Response Project that became effective on February 7, 2011, and whose
ending date was set to March 30, 2014. The project aimed at improving the health and hygiene
practices in order to reduce the spread of cholera and strengthen the institutional capacity to
respond to outbreaks.

6.      As expected, the project was executed by MSPP, DINEPA and three (3) NGOs that were
already implementing project activities and were selected based on their ability to expand
operations and/or absorb additional funding in a short period of time for the completion of
emergency activities. This way of recruiting NGOs aptly answered FAES’s strategy of always
intervening through service provider operators (OPS), which in this specific case were
international non-governmental organizations: Partners in Health, Save the Children and World
Vision.

7.      The project was deployed in six (6) health departments in the country: Artibonite, Centre,
Grande Anse, Nippes, South and South-East and implemented through two components: (i)
Support to the Government’s Response to Cholera at the Decentralized Level; and (ii)
Emergency Response to outbreak Capacity Building. The objective of the first component was to
carry out a program of activities for immediate response to cholera. This Component responded
to departmental level needs through support to all service providers, whether public, mixed or
private, and to interventions at all levels of the cholera response, as well as through community
participation and social mobilization, and support to community and institutional staff for an
effective response to cholera, not to mention the water and sanitation sector. In addition to
deployment and remuneration of human resources as well as technical assistance, equipment,
vehicles, medical supplies, goods and materials for medical waste management, were purchased.

8.      In addition, the project rehabilitated health facility structures for the management of acute
diarrhea that were prioritized in the implementation of departmental plans. Such plans
constituted the cholera response at departmental level. They were developed with the support of
the project and finalized at a workshop held in Nippes on March 2-5, 2011. The activities
undertaken under this component allowed the people affected as well as vulnerable groups
immediate access to basic health services and strengthened health promotion, and improved
hygiene awareness and access to safe water and sanitation.

9.       As for the second component, it allowed MSPP and DINEPA to build capacity, ensuring
that they were prepared to tackle cholera and other possible waterborne diseases not only in the
short term but also in the longer term. It also enabled close supervision of all stakeholders
involved in the project on the ground: MSPP (central and departmental directorates), DINEPA
(central, regional, departmental and municipal directorates), WB and FAES, and helped
strengthen the Government’s capacity to manage and respond to outbreaks through the two
institutions playing the most important role in the fight against cholera.

10.     The second component also supported activities to strengthen epidemiological
surveillance through the Division of Epidemiology, Laboratory and Research (DELR) by paying
a coordinator of activities, two medical technologists for quality control of tests at central level
and technicians for the epidemiological surveillance at departmental level. This helped improve
data management by the DELR (including the collection, analysis and dissemination of data) as
                                                 37
well as develop the National Epidemiological Surveillance Plan, which is now available for all
actors in the health system.

11.   As for the DINEPA, 82 potable water and sanitation technicians for the communes
(TEPAC) were set up to monitor the water quality and take part in early warning activities to
minimize the impact of a cholera outbreak. DINEPA also established the Emergency Response
Department (DRU) to steer emergency operations at the institutional level.

12.    In addition, supervision and monitoring of NGO activities were made possible by the
introduction of six monitoring officers at the level of FAES’s regional offices, who maintained
permanent contact with the Departmental Health Directorates. Regular financial audits were
made for these NGOs by FAES’s internal audit team.

7.2    Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Results

13.     MSPP was not very involved in the design phase of the project. The Bank solely
considered the emergency and did not see fit to engage MSPP in the design of the project and in
the selection of NGOs. The criteria of the World Bank were to provide grants to a small number
of non-public experienced providers who were already implementing activities within the
context of the cholera epidemic at the level of the country’s health departments. The World Bank
underestimated the complexity of the project and institutional procedures in the public
administration in Haiti. MSPP was faced with a fait accompli. However, during the negotiation
phase, it insisted for some activities that were not supported by NGOs to be taken into account
and integrated into the implementation plan. It was not until the end of the first year of the
project that FAES was able to benefit from the collaboration of MSPP officials for the
recruitment of institutional and community staff.

14.     Besides, various obstacles delayed the launch of NGO activities: (i) the contracts were
signed three (3) months after the effectiveness of the project; (ii) two (2) NGOs did not follow
the guidelines for submission of the project document according to the framework proposed by
FAES; and there were delays by NGOs to finalize the survey which needed to precede the start
of activities.

15.    The services provided by each of the actors revolved around two (2) key actions:
community mobilization and support. Each of these providers had to develop a detailed action
plan around these strategic areas of focus for the geographical areas they covered. NGO strategy
was similar to MSPP’s with some variations depending on the needs identified.

16.    Access to localities was a considerable challenge. Localities that were difficult to access
because of their remoteness from any urbanization as well as the poor state (or complete
absence) of roads were more difficult to reach in case of outbreaks of cholera.

17.     Finally, the duration of NGO contracts was a challenge. It did not allow NGOs to finalize
the activities as planned, which resulted in the need to extend these contracts through additional
clauses (as NGOs had to carry out too many activities in a very short time).




                                               38
18.     There was little ability to pursue community interventions after the end of the project,
leaving communities once again vulnerable to continued outbreaks, given that MSPP has not yet
taken the necessary steps to keep the community and/or institutional teams operating.

19.    With regard to all partners in the project, it is appropriate to emphasize the difficulties
encountered during implementation to receive timely responses and reactions from
partners: MSPP, DINEPA, Partners in Health/Zanmi Lasante, Save the Children and World
Vision Haiti.

20.    Changes in interlocutors and decision makers in MSPP (department managers) and FAES
(general managers and assistants) resulted in planned activities being constantly called into
question, slowing down implementation and thus progress towards the project’s goals.

21.     The delivery of inputs and essential goods for adequate care were adversely affected,
among others, by the country’s heavy administrative procedures, the limited involvement of the
FAES team in the financial management of the project, the lack of networks to transport goods,
the insufficient storage capacity of Health Directorates, and the lack of availability of products in
sufficient numbers at the supplier level in the country.

22.      Regarding Monitoring & Evaluation, the project is being continuously and rigorously
monitored and supervised. Data is collected at the level of MSPP departmental directorates, who
transmit it to MSPP’s Division of Epidemiology, Laboratory and Research, which is responsible
for analyzing and disseminating information on diseases under surveillance, notably cholera. The
data is regularly available on the MSPP website.

7.3    Evaluation of Results

23.      With respect to the relevance of the objectives, the project was designed taking into
account the Cholera Response Strategic Plan, as well as supporting MSPP and DINEPA
activities. The WB considered the wishes of MSPP to integrate the additional activities in the
project document so that most of the determinants of the epidemic be taken into account, always
doing so with the officials concerned. Various MSPP documents on community mobilization and
the integration of cholera response at health facility level were consulted. Activities were
therefore in line with MSPP expectations.

24.     In the short term, the project contributed to the immediate treatment of patients with
cholera, and to the deceleration of the cholera outbreak through health and hygiene promotion
campaigns and improved water and sanitation. In the medium term, the implementation of
project activities helped meet needs while avoiding fragmentation of services and an even greater
increase in costs, and eventually helped strengthen the foundations of a sustained control of the
epidemic. The project thus initiated the transition to a stronger public health system in the long
term. Finally, all project activities helped not only reduce the incidence of the disease in the
country but also engage in sustainable solutions while respecting the environment.

25.   The community mobilization activities conducted by the network of brigadiers deployed
by MSPP’s Departmental Health Directorates to improve hygiene practices have reached seven
hundred forty-six thousand three hundred ninety-one (746,391) persons and those carried by the
NGO network have reached six million five hundred forty-one thousand nine hundred twenty-

                                                 39
one (6,541,921) persons, totaling seven million two hundred eighty-eight thousand three hundred
twelve (7,288,312) persons across four thousand four hundred forty-seven (4447) localities in the
six (6) geographic departments involved in the project. In addition to awareness activities, a total
of eight hundred fifty-six thousand six hundred eighty-eight (856,688) persons have received
distributions of water treatment products and/or soap.

26.    Over time, NGO partners worked to constantly improve the implementation of activities
under the continuous supervision of FAES and did so with great success. Despite the difficulties
of implementation, NGO partners were able to reach a large number of target populations with
prevention/education messages, providing them with water treatment and hygiene products.

27.    From the outset, the availability of a Project Operations Manual along with FAES’s
manual, made it possible to align the implementation with the standards and procedures of these
two institutions. In addition, a Monitoring Manual was developed and served as a guide for both
technical and financial supervision.

28.      Regarding project implementation, FAES always aligned itself with MSPP, embracing
the latter’s pace regarding the assimilation of procedures to be followed.

29.     Project results and development objectives are reflected in the following tables:

 Project Indicators                                            Baseline   2011 Targeted      Result
                                                                             Result         achieved
 Percentage of population in project intervention areas who
 know the cholera early warning symptoms and prevention          64%           69%            82%
 steps.                                                          13%           18%            14%
 Percentage of population in project intervention areas with
 access to improved water sources.                               78%           78%            79%
 Increased institutional capacity as measured by
 achievement of at least four out of five of Component 2          0             4              4
 indicators on an annual basis.
 Component 1 Indicators                                        Baseline   2011 Targeted      Result
                                                                             Result         achieved
 Number of communities that have received targeted health         0           2213            4447
 education and/or prevention activities.
 Oral rehydration posts in service and supported with             0            223            256
 supplies.
 Cholera Treatment Units (CTU) in service and supported           0                           81
 with supplies.
 Number of people receiving water treatment products and          0           178 400       856 688
 soap
 Component 2 Indicators                                        Baseline   Targeted Result    Result
                                                                                            achieved
 Number of institutional personnel in place and trained.          0            2063           4325
 Departmental Cholera Management Plan developed (by               0              5              6
 MSPP and DINEPA) for at least five departments.
 Establishment of a national coordinator and five regional        0             6              7
 coordinators to monitor the response to cholera.
 Good quality quarterly IFRs are submitted to the Bank.           0             10            13
Source: Baseline inquiry


                                                      40
30.     The implementation plan calculated the provisional budget for the activities. It was
revised as needed and according to the course of activities keeping the same budget. This
flexibility allowed the MSPP to carry out significant activities.

31.     To achieve these objectives, FAES supported each partner in the development of their
strategic action plan, including the need for human, material and financial resources, which were
clearly inventoried around the two strategic areas of focus mentioned earlier: community
mobilization and support. These plans were revised and activities were consistently and
thoroughly monitored by both central and regional teams.

          Project provisional financing table by component and implementation year
      Component and/or activity       Year 1         Year 2            Year 3                       Total
                                        2011          2012              2013                       (millions
                                                                                                    USD)
 Component 1: Support to the                 9.0              2.0                   0.0              11.0
 Government’s Response to Cholera
 at the Decentralized Level.
 Component 2: Emergency                      1.5              2.0                   0.5               4.0
 Response Capacity Building.
 Total for the project                      10.5              4.0                   0.5              15.0

                            Table of actual expenditures by budget year
  Component and/or            Year 1          Year 2         Year 3               Year 4        Total (USD)
         activity              2011            2012           2013                 2014
 Component 1:              3,277,748.97 4,644,135.70 2,729,736.75               357,762.89     11,009,384.31
 Support to the
 Government’s
 Response to Cholera
 at the Decentralized
 Level.
 Component 2:               214,944.17        776,939.15       2,343,327.21     612,143.65      3,947,354.18
 Emergency Response
 Capacity Building.
 Total for the project     3,492,693.14      5,421,074.85      5,073,063.96     969,906.54     14,956,738.49
Note: This report is not exhaustive because some payments already committed by March 31, 2014 were not included
at that date.
32.    The project was financed by an IDA Grant through an Emergency Recovery Grant of
SDR 9.9 million (USD 15 million equivalent) over an implementation period of two and a half
years. Project financing by Component is outlined in the Table below. The Closing date was
June 30, 2013. An extension was granted until December 31, 2013 and was revised to March 30,
2014.

7.4     Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank and the Borrower

33.     FAES succeeded in managing this complex project with different partners. Despite
delays, very complex procurement processes turned out well and inputs planned for by the
project could be acquired and handed over to those concerned.



                                                      41
34.     The number of projects (about twenty) managed by FAES exceeded the capacity of the
administrative and financial teams. This prevented them from playing their full role and from
carrying out procedures within the agreed timeframe. The PRUC did not really benefit from all
the attention needed. This led to extending the closing date 3 times.

35.     Open and continuous dialogue with the Bank throughout project implementation,
prioritization of a certain flexibility in solving the problems encountered during the project,
support in the implementation of complex procedures and close monitoring for implementation
during the different missions, allowed to overcome difficulties in order to achieve the intended
objectives.

36.     From the outset, the project design took into account lessons learned from previous
operations in Haiti and from World Bank experience with emergency response operations,
including keeping project objectives simple, coordinating closely with all partners, using existing
implementing agencies, and limiting the number of actors. Lessons learned from previous
projects indicate that it is important to link the emergency projects with previous and future
technical assistance to increase, inter alia, its sustainability. Thus, Component 2 of the project
included emergency response capacity building for MSPP and DINEPA.

7.5    Risk Assessment of Development Outcomes

37.     The main risks identified were the following: generally weak financial management
capacity in Haiti, complex control of activities as project activities were carried out by public and
non-public service providers, as well as the complexity arising from the need to coordinate
public and non-public service providers, potentially leading to poor supervision and monitoring
of the use of project funds for intended purposes.

38.     However, adaptation measures were put in place: as planned, FAES maintained internal
control procedures, incorporated service provider obligations and possible solutions regarding
the financial management aspects of their operations into the contracts signed by non-public
service providers, and ensured that partner revised their implementation plans to adapt them
according to the needs.

39.     FAES and its regional teams were able to carry out technical and financial supervision of
departmental level teams as well as day-to-day management of public partners’ activities, non-
public service provider contracts, and the monitoring of technical assistance activities under
Component 2. FAES is well versed in preparing quarterly reports on the progress of the project
to be submitted to the Bank team, monitoring compliance with World Bank environmental
safeguard policies, maintaining records and separate accounts for all transactions related to the
project, and preparing, consolidating and producing the project’s financial statements and other
financial information. Regarding implementation of the project, FAES always aligned itself on
MSPP and DINEPA adopting the latter’s pace regarding the integration of procedures to be
followed.

40.     To mitigate risks, open and ongoing dialogue and listening, as well as close technical
assistance were established by the donor. Moreover, the project used a tried and tested approach
in an emergency context in which the potential incremental scale of environmental impacts was

                                                 42
minor and easily localized, while impact mitigation measures were already a standard practice
among the service providers. However, given the sensitivity of some of the interventions,
particularly in terms of managing healthcare waste within and from healthcare facilities, and the
inclusion of minor works, the project supported multiple, small-scale activities to prevent the
spread of cholera through enhancing access to hygiene information and clean water, and
facilitating treatment for infected individuals as well as waste management. At the request of
MSPP, eight incinerators that had been donated to MSPP were thus installed and rendered
functional. Potential adverse impacts (direct, indirect, and cumulative) related to waste
management from healthcare facilities, worker health and safety and minor works were
identified, minimized, mitigated and avoided under the guidelines provided in the Environmental
and Social Management Framework (ESMF). The ESMF is based on good practices identified in
the SFI Environmental, Health and Safety Guidelines for Health Care Facilities.

7.6    Lessons learned

41.     During the implementation of this project, lessons were learned and notable successes
were achieved. One such notable success was the project’s contribution to the reduction of all
cholera cases during the intervention period. Although this result cannot solely be attributed to
the achievements of this Fund (as other factors and other partners also influenced it) it is a
positive result the project largely contributed to achieving.

42.     In addition, NGO partners noted that this project enabled them to reinforce/create
community networks, and to better understand the challenges of budgeting for other similar
projects, as well as the mechanisms of the administration of a government agency with which
they had never worked before.

43.    At project inception, a deficiency of information was noted from the Departmental Health
Authority toward the institutions with which FAES was to implement activities. Project
information should therefore be transmitted at all levels of implementation as early as
implantation and throughout the project on a regular basis for all partners. This deficiency of
information did not allow Departmental Health Authorities officers to participate in audits of
NGO expenditures.

44.    Baseline and ex-post surveys in areas where NGOs were involved were carried out by
these NGOs for the departments of the Centre and the South-East. NGOs should not be the judge
and jury in surveys or studies aimed at providing project baseline or impact information used to
measure their performance.

45.      FAES minimized the involvement of the project management team in the execution of
activities. A lesson learned from this project to take into account for the preparation and
implementation of other emergency projects relates to human resources. Staffing needs for this
operation were not properly assessed, which resulted in the carrying out of financial management
related tasks being very cumbersome. World Bank presented a project budget that included the
provision of a restricted list of personnel at FAES’s level. It would have been advisable to
discuss human resources needs before implementation, while taking into account the reality of
Haiti’s existing structures and/or constraints to establish inter-ministerial or inter-organizational
teams that could eventually expedite decision making as well as execution of procedures. FAES

                                                 43
should therefore revise its institutional procedures to allow for more timely records processing,
and upon signing the Subsidiary Agreement prepare the directorates concerned to take ownership
of the project, which would also reduce the time needed to monitor records. This should not only
be done at the level of FAES but also with partners.

46.      Before implementation, the collaborative relationship with MSPP should be improved.
FAES is used to launching projects over two or three days in the presence of all stakeholders in
order to identify the criteria for success. This was not done in the case of this emergency project.
Initially the only meeting with MSPP was to finalize cholera response departmental plans for the
six departments targeted. A constructive and regular dialogue must be maintained with all
concerned.

47.    In order to achieve expected results, open and continuous listening and dialogue with the
World Bank was necessary. This gave the project its flexibility, which played a role in its
success.

7.7    Conclusion and Recommendations

48.    With the idea of ensuring the durability of certain achievements of the Project de
Réponse D’Urgence Au Choléra (PRUC), an Interventions Monitoring Plan would be needed in
order to keep strengthening waste management activities with MSPP. FAES’s Environmental
Unit team, which was very involved, should intervene in the PASMISSI to continue to assist
MSPP with this issue.

7.8    Reference Documents
       1. Grant Agreement
       2.   Subsidiary Agreement
       3.   Signed Memoranda
       4.   Project Document
       5.   Operations Manuals
       6.   PRUC Monitoring and Evaluation Manual
       7.   Final Report of the activities of the various partners
       8.   Final Monitoring and Evaluation Report
       9.   Environmental and Social Management Report




                                                44
                                  Comments from Recipient




                                                             Port-au-Prince, September 12, 2014

Mrs. Mary A. Barton-Dock
Special Envoy to Haiti,
Latin America and the Caribbean
7, Rue Ogé
Pétion-Ville, Haiti

Ref.: Commentary to Report No 89201-HT dated September 4, 2014:
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT (IDA-H639-0-HT)
ON A GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.9 MILLION (US$15 MILLION
EQUIVALENT) TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI FOR A CHOLERA EMERGENCY
RESPONSE PROJECT

Dear Mrs. Barton-Dock,

The Government of Haiti and the implementing agency, FAES, would like to thank you for the
opportunity to review the project report “Implementation Completion and Results Report (Ida-
H639-0-Ht) on a grant in the amount Of SDR 9.9 Million (US$15 Million equivalent) to the
Republic of Haiti for a Cholera Emergency Response Project”.

Please find enclosed the comments we would like to include in above mentioned report at the
time of its publication.

The Government of Haiti and the People of Haiti express their gratitude for this grant, which has
proven to be a very helpful contribution at aiming to eradicate Cholera in Haiti, and is looking
forward to a continued and fruitful relationship with the World Bank.


                                                                    Marie Carmelle Jean-Marie
                                                              Minister of Economy and Finance




                                               45
                    Fonds d’Assistance Économique et Sociale (FAES)

             Commentary to Report No: 89201-HT dated September 4, 2014
   IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT (IDA-H639-0-HT)
     ON A GRANT IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 9.9 MILLION (US$15 MILLION
               EQUIVALENT) TO THE REPUBLIC OF HAITI
        FOR A CHOLERA EMERGENCY RESPONSE PROJECT (PRUC)

                                     September 12, 2014

The Government of Haiti would like to express its gratitude towards the lender to have been
trusted with the above-mentioned project aiming to support the Government of Haiti and build
Emergency Response Capacity to respond to Cholera.

The Completion Report was read and analyzed by the PRUC project teams at FAES, DINEPA
and MSPP. Whereas DINEPA and MSPP have no further comments, FAES submits following
commentary pertaining to the respective chapters described below:


      2.4    Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
      32: Financial Management arrangements in terms of accounting, budgeting, fund
      flow, internal control, external audit and financial reporting were performed
      Moderately Unsatisfactory in accordance with the last ISR.
      While recognizing weaknesses in the withdrawal applications, FAES would like to stress
      the fact that access to the World Bank’s financial management system “CLIENT
      CONNECTION” was met with recurrent problems, making it at times impossible for
      FAES to enter the system. Several attempts, over a period of time, by the World Bank’s
      team to remediate the difficulties to access the system resulted in delays in submitting the
      withdrawal requests and/or supporting materials. Thus, the delays in disbursements were
      in part due to the problems World Bank was having with their ill functioning CLIENT
      CONNECTION system.

      3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
      41. By Project completion, access to improved water sources had been slightly
      increased and sanitary and hygiene facilities as well as the collection of solid waste
      had been improved.
      “The Project contributed to the waste management and environmental protection of the
      country through the installation of four incinerators, the emptying of four septic tanks,
      and the construction of three ecological sanitary blocs.”
      FAES would like to point out that four (4) incinerators were installed by the NGO, and in
      addition eight (8) incinerators were installed for MSPP (totaling 12 incinerators installed).

      5.2    Borrower Performance
      (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
      Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


                                               46
52: The rating for FAES performance is similar to that of the overall Government
since similar issues apply.

1. With reference to “insufficient human resources and capacities”, FAES would like to
   point out that during the initial project design World Bank had not taken into account
   the actual HR situation in Haiti. The complexity of components of this project,
   involving various government entities, each with structures and procedures of their
   own, would have required a larger project team with a variety of skills. Although
   FAES pointed this out to the World Bank team, taking it into account seemed not
   have been possible.
2. “The lack of a robust health management information system at all levels remains
   one of the Project's weakest areas.” This remark is less pertinent to FAES than to
   MSPP.

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower’s ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Completion Report Cholera Emergency Response Project
Section 4: Evaluation of the Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
6. Lessons learned
With reference to “Staffing needs were not properly assessed”, FAES points out that
World Bank presented a project budget that included the provision of a restricted list of
personnel at FAES’s level. It would have been advisable to discuss HR needs before
implementation, while taking into account the reality of Haiti’s existing structures and/or
constraints to establish inter-ministerial or inter-organizational teams that could
eventually expedite decision making as well as execution of procedures.




                                        47
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
N/A




                                         48
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Key Project documents:

Emergency Project Paper:
World Bank. 2010. Haiti - Cholera Emergency Response Project

Restructuring Paper:
World Bank. June 4, 2013.
World Bank. December 27, 2013.

Financing agreements:
Ronald Baudin, Alexandre V. Abrantes. 2011.
Financing Agreement, Grant Number H639-0-HT. Conformed Copy.

Other Project documents:

Manuel de Suivi du Projet de Réponse Urgente au Choléra. Décembre 2012. Direction Suivi et
 Evaluation – DES – FAES.

Accord de Rétrocession entre MEF et FAES. Janvier 2011. WBDocs.

Rapport d’analyse des données de l’enquête finale. Projet de Réponse d’Urgence au Choléra.
 Avril 2013. Centre de Recherches et de Développement.

Manuel d’Opération du Projet de Réponse d’Urgence au Choléra. Juillet 2012. FAES

Rapport de fin de participation. Janvier 2014. Direction d’Epidémiologie, de Laboratoires et de
 Recherche.

Rapport final de Projet. Avril 2013. Direction Sanitaire de l’Artibonite.

Rapport final de Projet. Mai 2013. Direction Sanitaire du Centre.

Rapport final de Projet. Juin 2013. Direction Sanitaire du Grand Anse.

Rapport final de Projet. Avril 2013. Direction Sanitaire du Nippes

Rapport final de Projet. Avril 2013. Direction Sanitaire du Sud Est

Rapport final de Projet. Avril 2013. Direction Sanitaire du Sud

Rapport final de Prestation. Mai 2012. PIH/ZL.

Rapport final OPS PRUC. Mai 2012. SV.

Rapport final de Prestation. Decembre 2012. WV.

                                                49
      In addition: various Aide Memoires, Implementation Supervision Reports (ISRs),
      Procurement reports, Financial Management reports.

Policy, Strategy, and Program Documents from the Government of Haiti

      Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper 2008-2010. November 2007. Ministry of
      Planning and External Cooperation

      Cadre de Gestion Environnementale et Sociale. Fevrier 2011. FAES.

      National Plan for the Elimination of Cholera in Haiti 2013-2022. February 2013. Ministry
      of Public Health and Population; National Directorate for Water Supply and Sanitation

Population and Health Data

      Global Water, Sanitation and Hygiene Strategy – CDC. Jan 14 2014.
      http://www.cdc.gov/healthywater/global/index.html

      Prevention and control of cholera outbreaks: WHO policy and recommendations. Jan 12
      2014. http://www.who.int/cholera/technical/prevention/control/en/

      World Bank. Open Data. http://data.worldbank.org/country/haiti

      Stratégie de réponse pour la prise en charge du choléra. December 2010. Save the
      Children




                                             50
Annex 10. Project contribution to the reduction of cholera incidence and mortality

1.      Between 2010 and 2013, the cholera case fatality rate (CFR) in Project areas
decreased by 1.8 percentage points, compared with 1.2 percentage points decrease at the
national level. This is a notable progress considering the high CFR in 2010 in the Project areas
as compared with the one at the national level (Figure 2). In other words, the decline is more
noticeable in the Project areas than at the national level. This tends to confirm the effectiveness
of access to adequate treatment and quality of case management which the Project contributed to
establishing 174 oral rehydration points and 82 cholera treatment units at the community level.
Actually, the number of cases and the CFR at national and at the Project level have the same
trend. There was an increase in the number of cases and CFR between 2010 and 2011 and a
decrease in 2012 and 2013. The increase in the number of cases and CFR more or less
overlapped with the increase of rainfall . 20 In addition, Project intervention areas were those most
affected by the cholera outbreak. In the Project areas, there was a relative increase of the CFR in
2012 compared with the 2011 (from 0.8 to 1.2 percent) and with the national level (0.9 percent).
However, due to the high number of the detected cases, the CFR actually decreased by more than
half in absolute terms (1,109 to 451). The Table 10.1 clearly shows the situation.

     Figure 2. Comparison of number of cases of cholera in Haiti (National and Project), from 2010 to
                                                  2014

                        400,000

                        350,000                                       number of cases
                                                                      Project number of cases
                        300,000

                        250,000
      number of cases




                        200,000

                        150,000

                        100,000

                         50,000

                             -
                                  2010   2011           2012            2013            2014


Source: Profil Statistique du Cholera Semaine 22 epidemiologique, Rapport du réseau national de surveillance,
MSPP, DELR - 31 May 2014 FAES - M&E Directorate March 2014; WHO/PAHO Epidemiological update -
Cholera, March 20, 2014



20
  Report of Public Assistance Hopital of Marseille on the situation of the elimination of the cholera in May 31,
2014.


                                                      51
Table 10.1. Comparison of cholera CFR in Haiti (National and Project), from 2010 to 2014

                                           2010            2011        2012         2013        2014
     Case-Fatality Rate (%)                     2.2             0.8        0.9          1.0        0.7
     Project Case-Fatality Rate (%)             2.7             0.8        1.2          0.9        0.5
     Project Death number                    1,986           1,109        451          177          18

Source: Profil Statistique du Cholera Semaine 22 epidemiologique, Rapport du réseau national de surveillance,
MSPP, DELR - 31 May 2014 FAES - M&E Directorate March 2014; WHO/PAHO Epidemiological update -
Cholera, March 20, 2014 and authors' calculation.


2.      While the CFR at the national and the Project level are below one percent in 2013 and
2014, this should be held steady in a sustainable way to prevent a new cholera outbreak,
particularly during rainy seasons and hurricane periods. Consequently, the international
community and the GOH should remain vigilant in implementing appropriate programs relevant
to the current situation in which epidemiological surveillance is critical.




                                                      52
Annex 11. MAP IBRD 33471R




                            53
