                                        CONFORMED COPY



                                GRANT NUMBER H639-0-HT




  Financing Agreement
     (Cholera Emergency Response Project)


                   between



            REPUBLIC OF HAITI


                     and


INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




            Dated January 20, 2011
                                                        GRANT NUMBER H639-0-HT

                             FINANCING AGREEMENT

       AGREEMENT dated January 20, 2011, entered into between REPUBLIC OF
HAITI (“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(“Association”). The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows:

            ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                             ARTICLE II — FINANCING

2.01.   The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to nine
        million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,900,000)
        (“Financing”) to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to this
        Agreement (“Project”).

2.02.   The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the
        Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per
        annum.

2.04.   The Payment Dates are June 15 and December 15 in each year.

2.05.   The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
                                           -2-


                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this
        end, the Recipient shall cause the Project to be carried out by FAES, with
        technical support from MSPP and DINEPA, in accordance with the provisions of
        the Subsidiary Agreement and Article IV of the General Conditions.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient
        shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

              ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION

4.01.   The Additional Events of Suspension consist of the following:

        (a)     FAES’s Legislation has been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed
                or waived so as to affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
                Association, the ability of FAES to perform any of its obligations under
                the Subsidiary Agreement.

        (b)     FAES shall have failed to comply with any of its obligations under the
                Subsidiary Agreement.

               ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION

5.01.   The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely, that
        the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Recipient and
        FAES.

5.02.   The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the
        Subsidiary Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and
        FAES and is legally binding upon the Recipient and FAES in accordance with its
        terms.

5.03.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety days (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in
        no case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Association’s approval of
        the Financing which expires on July 18, 2012.

5.04.   For purposes of Section 8.05 (b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the
        obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for
        payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty years after the date of this
        Agreement.
                                         -3-


                 ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Recipient’s Representative is the Recipient’s Minister of Economy and
        Finance.

6.02.   The Recipient’s Address is:

        Ministère de l’Economie et des Finances
        5, Avenue Charles Sumner
        Port-au-Prince
        Republic of Haiti

6.03.   The Association’s Address is:

        International Development Association
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable:                 Telex:              Facsimile:

        INDEVAS                248423 (MCI)        1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.
                                  -4-


AGREED at Port-au-Prince, Haiti, as of the day and year first above written.


                REPUBLIC OF HAITI



                By /s/ Ronald Baudin
                                                    Authorized Representative



                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                By /s/ Alexandre V. Abrantes
                                                    Authorized Representative
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                                   Project Description

        The objective of the Project is to improve the health and hygiene practices in
order to reduce the spread of cholera and strengthen the Recipient’s institutional capacity
to respond to outbreaks.

        The Project consists of the following parts:

        Part 1: Support to the Recipient’s Response to Cholera at the Decentralized Level

        (a)     Support a multi-sectoral approach to primary health care, by:
                (i) designing, through community participation and social mobilization,
                departmental cholera management plans with comprehensive
                identification of the department’s needs for an effective response to
                cholera over a six-month period, including human resources, equipment
                and vehicles, medical supplies, goods and materials including for
                medical waste management, and technical assistance; and (ii)
                implementing the most urgent priorities of such plans.

        (b)     Support the health, water and sanitation response of non public providers
                by carrying out a program of activities for immediate response to
                cholera, including providing immediate access to basic health services
                for affected population and vulnerable groups, increasing health
                promotion and hygiene awareness and improving access to clean water
                and sanitation.

        Part 2: Emergency Response Capacity Building

        (a)     Strengthening the Recipient’s capacity to manage and respond to cholera
                outbreaks, including: (i) strengthening surveillance, reporting and
                monitoring of cholera cases and building management and medical waste
                management capacity of the MSPP at the central and departmental
                levels; and (ii) building capacity of DINEPA for the implementation of
                its cholera prevention and control strategy.

        (b)     Carrying out a program of activities to support the management of the
                Project, including monitoring, supervision and audits.
                                            -6-


                                      SCHEDULE 2

                                    Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements.

1.      (a)     The Recipient shall cause FAES to be responsible for the coordination of
                the Project activities, including administration, financial management,
                supervision, monitoring, evaluation and reporting, as well as for the
                technical implementation of the Project activities, with support from
                MSPP and DINEPA for their respective activities.

        (b)     No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient
                shall cause FAES to recruit an accountant for the Project, with terms of
                reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association
                and in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this
                Agreement.

        (c)     To assist FAES in its supervision activities, the Recipient shall designate,
                no later than December 31, 2010, one program officer in the MSPP and
                one program officer in DINEPA, each with terms of reference,
                experience and qualification satisfactory to the Association.

2.      The Project shall be implemented on the basis of annual work programs and
        budgets, prepared by FAES, MSPP and DINEPA, each for its respective
        activities, consolidated by FAES and previously approved by the Association. No
        activity shall be eligible to a financing from the proceeds of the Financing unless
        it is included in an annual work program and budget approved by the
        Association.

B.      Subsidiary Agreement.

1.      To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make the proceeds
        of the Financing available to FAES under a subsidiary agreement between the
        Recipient and FAES, under terms and conditions approved by the Association,
        which shall include the following provisions:

        (a)     the obligation of the Recipient to:

                (i)     make the proceeds of the Financing available to FAES as a grant
                        under terms and conditions acceptable to the Association; and
                                   -7-


      (ii)    take all actions necessary to permit FAES to carry out the Project
              and ensure the achievement of the objective thereof;

(b)   the obligation of FAES to:

      (i)     carry out the Project in accordance with this Agreement, the
              Subsidiary Agreement, the Project Operation Manual, the
              provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
              recipients of grant proceeds other than the Recipient and the
              annual work plans and budgets approved by the Association
              referred to in Section I.A.2 of this Schedule, and the Safeguard
              Documents;

      (ii)    promptly refund to the Recipient for further refund to the
              Association any proceeds from the grant not used for purposes of
              carrying out the Project or for achieving its objective, or otherwise
              utilized in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this
              Agreement;

      (iii)   at the request of the Recipient or the Association, exchange views
              with the Recipient and the Association with regard to the progress
              of the Project and the achievement of its objective, and FAES's
              performance of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement,
              the Project Operation Manual, the annual work plans and budgets
              approved by the Association and the Anti-Corruption Guidelines
              and the Safeguard Documents;

      (iv)    enter into the pertinent Service Agreements as provided in Section
              I.D.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement;

      (v)     maintain staff in adequate number and with terms of reference,
              qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association for
              the implementation of the Project;

      (vi)    take, or cause to be undertaken, all necessary actions to enable the
              Recipient to comply with its Project implementation obligations
              under this Agreement; and

      (vii)   promptly inform the Recipient of any condition which interferes
              or threatens to interfere with the implementation of the Project and
              the achievement of its objective; and
                                        -8-


     (c)     a provision stipulating that, in case of conflict amongst any of the
             provisions contained in the Subsidiary Agreement or the Project Operation
             Manual, and those set forth in this Agreement, the provisions of this
             Agreement shall at all times prevail.

2.   The Recipient shall exercise its rights and carry out its obligations under the
     Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient
     and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing. Except as
     the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend,
     abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any of
     its provisions.

C.   Anti-Corruption.

     The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
     provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

D.   Service Agreements.

1.   For the implementation of Part 1(b) of the Project, the Recipient shall cause
     FAES to enter into Service Agreements with Eligible NGOs, selected in
     accordance with the provisions of Section III of this Schedule, for the carrying
     out of Eligible Activities on the basis of terms and conditions approved by the
     Association, which shall include the following: the Recipient, through FAES,
     shall obtain rights adequate to protect its interests and those of the Association,
     including the right to: (a) suspend or terminate the Service Agreement upon the
     Eligible NGO’s failure to perform any of its obligations under the Service
     Agreement; and (b) require each Eligible NGO to: (i) carry out its Eligible
     Activity with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
     technical, economic, financial, managerial, procurement, environmental and
     social standards and practices satisfactory to the Association, including in
     accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines applicable to
     recipients of grant proceeds other than the Recipient, the Safeguard Documents
     and the Project Operation Manual; (ii) maintain policies and procedures adequate
     to enable it to monitor and evaluate in accordance with indicators acceptable to
     the Association, the progress of the Eligible Activity and the achievement of its
     objectives; (iii) (A) maintain a financial management system and prepare
     financial statements in accordance with consistently applied accounting standards
     acceptable to the Association, both in a manner adequate to reflect the operations,
     resources and expenditures related to the Eligible Activity; and (B) at the
     Association’s or the Recipient’s request, have such financial statements audited
     by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, in accordance with
     consistently applied auditing standards acceptable to the Association, and
     promptly furnish the statements as so audited to the Recipient and the
     Association; (iv) enable the Recipient and the Association to inspect the Eligible
                                         -9-


     Activity, its operation and any relevant records and documents; and (v) prepare
     and furnish to the Recipient and the Association all such information as the
     Recipient or the Association shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing.

2.   The Recipient shall cause FAES to exercise its rights and carry out its obligations
     under each Service Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the
     Recipient and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Financing.
     Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall cause FAES
     not to assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Service
     Agreement or any of its provisions.

E.   Training.

     Without limitation to the provisions of Section I.A.2 above, the provision of
     training shall be carried out on the basis of the annual programs and budgets
     referred to in said Section, and which shall, inter alia, identify: (a) particulars of
     the training envisaged (including terms of reference acceptable to the
     Association); (b) the personnel to be trained; (c) the selection method of the
     institution or individuals conducting such training; (d) the institution conducting
     such training if identified; (e) the purpose and justification for such training; (f)
     the location and duration of the proposed training; and (g) the estimated cost of
     such training.

F.   Manual.

1.   No later than three (3) months after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall cause
     FAES to amend and update the Project Operation Manual in a manner
     satisfactory to the Association, to reflect the implementation arrangements in
     respect of this Project.

2.   The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
     provisions of the Project Operation Manual.

3.   In the event that any provision of the Project Operation Manual shall conflict
     with any provision of this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

4.   The Project Operation Manual may only be amended from time to time in
     consultation with, and after approval of, the Association.
                                       - 10 -


G.   Safeguards.

1.   No later than one (1) month after the Effective Date, the Recipient shall prepare
     and disclose in a manner satisfactory to the Association the Environmental and
     Social Management Framework, in form and substance satisfactory to the
     Association, detailing: (a) the guidelines, procedures and timetables to carry out
     the environmental and social assessments under the Project; (b) the measures to
     be taken during the implementation and operation of the Project to eliminate or
     offset adverse environmental and social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable
     levels; and (c) the actions needed to implement these measures, including
     monitoring and institution strengthening.

2.   From the date referred to in paragraph (1) above, the Recipient shall ensure that,
     throughout the implementation of the Project, the Project shall be implemented in
     accordance with the guidelines, procedures, timetables and other specifications
     set forth in the Environmental and Social Management Framework. In particular,
     the Recipient shall ensure: (a) that for each activity under the Project of a
     category for which the Environmental and Social Management Framework
     provides that an Environmental and Social Management Plan should be prepared,
     such Environmental and Social Management Plan, in form and substance
     satisfactory to the Association, is effectively prepared and locally disclosed,
     before the implementation of such Project activity, in accordance with the
     provisions of the Environmental and Social Management Framework; and (b)
     immediately thereafter, that the relevant activity is implemented in accordance
     with its Environmental and Social Management Plan.

3.   No withdrawal application shall be submitted to the Association with respect to
     an activity under the Project involving works before the Environmental and
     Social Management Framework has been prepared and disclosed in accordance
     with paragraph 1 above.

4.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree in writing and subject to
     compliance with applicable consultation and public disclosure requirements of
     the Association, the Recipient shall not abrogate, amend, repeal, suspend, waive
     or fail to enforce any provisions of any of the Safeguard Documents, nor shall it
     permit FAES to do so.

5.   Without limitation upon its other reporting obligations under this Agreement, the
     Recipient shall, or shall cause FAES to, regularly collect, compile and submit to
     the Association, on a quarterly basis, reports on the status of compliance with the
     Safeguard Documents, giving details of: (a) measures taken in furtherance of the
     Safeguard Documents; (b) conditions, if any, which interfere or threaten to
     interfere with the smooth implementation of the Safeguard Documents; and
     (c) remedial measures taken or required to be taken to address such conditions.
                                          - 11 -


6.      In the event that any provision of the Safeguard Documents shall conflict with
        any provision under this Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall prevail.

Section II.     Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

        The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate, or cause to be monitored or evaluated,
        the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of
        indicators acceptable to the Association. Each Project Report shall cover the
        period of one calendar quarter, and shall be furnished to the Association not later
        than thirty (30) days after the end of the period covered by such report.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management
        system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General
        Conditions.

2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall
        prepare and furnish to the Association no later than thirty (30) days after the end
        of the period covered by such report, interim unaudited financial reports for the
        Project covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Association.

3.      The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
        provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions. Each audit of the
        Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.
        The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the
        Association not later than four months after the end of such period. The Recipient
        shall disclose the audited Financial Statements in a manner acceptable to the
        Association.

4.      For purposes of paragraph 3 above, the Recipient shall appoint, or cause FAES to
        appoint, not later than four (4) months after the Effective Date, the independent
        auditors referred to in Section 4.09 (b) (i) of the General Conditions, under terms
        of reference, qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association and in
        accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                         - 12 -


Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and works. All goods and works required for the Project and to be
        financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement
        Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance
        with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the
        Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of
        particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the
        Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and works

1.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
        of International Competitive Bidding.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and works. The following table
        specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive
        Bidding, which may be used for goods and works. The Procurement Plan shall
        specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used:

         Procurement Method

         (a) National Competitive Bidding, subject to using standard bidding documents
             agreed with the Association.
         (b) Procurement from United Nations Agencies, in accordance with paragraph
             3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.
         (c) Shopping, subject to using standard request for quotations agreed with the
             Association.
         (d) Direct Contracting, subject to the Association’s prior consent.
         (e) Community Participation in accordance with procedures set forth in the
             Project Operation Manual.
                                         - 13 -


C.     Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.     Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
       2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
       basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.     Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
       specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection,
       which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan shall specify
       the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

        Procurement Method

        (a) Quality Based Selection.
        (b)  Selection under a Fixed Budget.
        (c) Least Cost Selection.
        (d)  Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications.
        (e) Single Source Selection, subject to the Association’s prior written consent.
        (f) Procedures set forth in Paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines
            for the Selection of Individual Consultants.
        (g) Sole Source Procedures for the Selection of Individual Consultants set forth
            in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines for the Selection of Individual
            Consultants.

D.     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions

       The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
       Association’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Revi ew
       by the Association.

Section IV.    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing

A.     General

1.     The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with
       the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
       additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient
       (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
       2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to
       this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as
       set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below.
                                         - 14 -


2.     The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be
       financed out of the proceeds of the Financing (“Category”), the allocations of the
       amounts of the Financing to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to
       be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:

                                     Amount of the         Percentage of Expenditures
                                  Financing Allocated             to be Financed
           Category               (expressed in SDR)           (inclusive of Taxes)

 (1) Goods, works and                    9,900,000                     100%
     consultants services,
     Training and Operating
     Costs under the Project

 TOTAL AMOUNT                            9,900,000


B.     Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.     Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
       made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
       withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 3,960,000 may be
       made for payments made prior to this date but on or after October 21, 2010, for
       Eligible Expenditures, but provided, however, that such expenditures comply
       with the pertinent provisions of this Agreement as applicable to said
       expenditures.

2.     The Closing Date is June 30, 2013.
                                          - 15 -


                                      APPENDIX

Section I.      Definitions

1.      “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
        Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
        Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 with the modifications set forth in
        Section III of this Appendix.

2.      “Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to
        this Agreement.

3.      “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
        Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and
        revised in October 2006 and May 2010.

4.      “DINEPA” means the Recipient’s National Directorate for Potable Water and
        Sanitation (Direction Nationale de l’Eau Potable et de l’Assainissement).

5.      “Eligible Activity” means an activity for the immediate response to cholera,
        which meets the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operation Manual,
        including activities providing immediate access to basic health services for
        affected population and vulnerable groups, increasing health promotion and
        hygiene awareness and improving access to clean water and sanitation, but
        specifically excluding any activity involving involuntary resettlement, as defined
        in OP/BP 4.12.

6.      “Eligible NGO” means an experienced nongovernmental organization which
        meets the eligibility criteria set out in the Project Operation Manual, including
        the following: (a) the NGO is duly organized and operating on the Recipient’s
        territory in accordance with the laws of the Recipient; (b) the NGO is already
        carrying out activities for the immediate response to cholera on the Recipient’s
        territory, similar to those included in the proposed Eligible Activity; and (c) the
        NGP has the capacity to scale up its activities and carry out the Eligible Activity
        within a twelve month-period.

7.      “Environmental and Social Management Framework” means the Recipient’s
        framework referred to in Section I.G.1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

8.      “Environmental and Social Management Plan” means the Recipient’s plan
        prepared and disclosed in accordance with the Environmental and Social
        Management Framework with respect to a Project activity included under an
        annual work plan and budget approved by the Association in accordance with
        Section I.A.2 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, that details: (a) the measures to be
        taken during the implementation and operation of such activity to eliminate or
                                         - 16 -


      offset adverse environmental or social impacts, or to reduce them to acceptable
      levels; and (b) the actions needed to implement these measures.

9.    “FAES” means Fonds d’Assistance Economique et Sociale, the Recipient’s Fund
      for Economic and Social Assistance, an entity with legal personality established
      by FAES Legislation.

10.   “FAES Legislation” means the Recipient’s decree dated May 28, 1990, published
      in the Recipient’s official Gazette (“Le Moniteur”) of June 03, 1990 which
      created the FAES under the authority of the Recipient’s ministry responsible for
      economy and finance.

11.   “General Conditions” means the “International Development Association
      General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 31, 2010, with the
      modifications set forth in Section II of this Appendix.

12.   “MSPP” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Health and Population
      (Ministère de la Santé Publique et de la Population).

13.   “OP/BP 4.12” means the Bank’s operational policy and procedures on
      Involuntary Resettlement set forth in the Bank’s Operational Manual, as said
      manual is published under www.WorldBank.org/opmanual.

14.   “Operating Costs” means the incremental operating expenses, based on annual
      budgets approved by the Association, incurred by FAES, on account of Project
      administration, supervision, monitoring and evaluation, as operation and
      maintenance costs of office, vehicles and office equipment; water and electricity
      utilities, telephone, office supplies, bank charges, contractual staff costs, travel
      and supervision costs, per diem, but excluding the salaries and indemnities of
      officials and public servants of the Recipient’s civil service.

15.   “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October, 2006 and May 2010.

16.   “Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated December 16, 2010 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

17.   “Project Operation Manual” means, collectively, the FAES manual entitled
      “Manuel d’Opération” dated August 2009, and the FAES manual entitled
      “Manuel des Procédures Administratives, Comptables et Financières” dated
      February 25, 2002, consisting of different schedules setting forth the rules,
      methods, guidelines, specific development plans, standard documents and
                                            - 17 -


        procedures to be maintained for the carrying out of the Project, including the
        eligibility criteria and procedures for the implementation of Selected Activities
        and the Environmental and Social Management Framework, as said manual shall
        have been updated for the Project in accordance with Section I.F.1 of Schedule 2
        to this Agreement. “Project Operation Manual” includes all annex to said manual
        and its amendments, provided that they have been previously approved by the
        Association.

18.     “Safeguard Documents” means collectively the Environmental and Social
        Management Framework and the Environmental and Social Management Plans
        prepared for specific activities carried out under the Project, if any.

19.     “Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section I.B.1 of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

20.     “Training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ services) for:
        (a) reasonable travel, room, board and per diem expenditures as incurred by
        trainers and trainees in connection with their training and by non-consultant
        training facilitators; (b) course fees; (c) training facility rentals; and (d) training
        material preparation, acquisition, reproduction and distribution expenses.

Section II.     Modifications to the General Conditions

The modification to the General Conditions is as follows:

In section 6.02(l), the term “Project Implementing Entity” includes FAES.


Section III. Modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines

The modifications to the Anti-Corruption Guidelines are as follows:

1.      Section 5 is re-numbered as Section 5(a) and a new Section 5(b) is added to read
        as follows:

        “… (b) These Guidelines also provide for the sanctions and related actions to be
        imposed by the Bank on Borrowers (other than the Member Country) and all
        other individuals or entities who are recipients of Loan proceeds, in the event that
        the Borrower or the individual or entity has been debarred by another financier as
        a result of a determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual
        or entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in
        connection with the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”
                                             - 18 -


2.     Section 11(a) is modified to read as follows:

       “… (a) sanction in accordance with prevailing Bank’s sanctions policies and
       procedures (fn13) a Borrower (other than a Member Country) (fn 14) or an
       individual or entity, including (but not limited to) declaring such Borrower,
       individual or entity ineligible publicly, either indefinitely or for a stated period of
       time: (i) to be awarded a Bank-financed contract; (ii) to benefit from a Bank-
       financed contract, financially or otherwise, for example as a sub-contractor; and
       (iii) to otherwise participate in the preparation or implementation of the project or
       any other project financed, in whole or in part, by the Bank, if at any time the
       Bank determines (fn 15) that such Borrower, individual or entity has engaged in
       corrupt, fraudulent, collusive, coercive or obstructive practices in connection
       with the use of loan proceeds, or if another financier with which the Bank has
       entered into an agreement for the mutual enforcement of debarment decisions has
       declared such person or entity ineligible to receive proceeds of financings made
       by such financier or otherwise to participate in the preparation or implementation
       of any project financed in whole or in part by such financier as a result of a
       determination by such financier that the Borrower or the individual or entity has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with
       the use of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

Footnotes:

       “13. An individual or entity may be declared ineligible to be awarded a Bank financed
       contract upon completion of sanctions proceedings pursuant to the Bank’s sanctions
       policies and procedures, or under the procedures of temporary suspension or early
       temporary suspension in connection with an ongoing sanctions proceeding, or following a
       sanction by another financier with whom the Bank has entered into a cross debarment
       agreement, as a result of a determination by such financier that the firm or individual has
       engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or collusive practices in connection with the use
       of the proceeds of a financing made by such financier.”

       “14. Member Country includes officials and employees of the national government or of
       any of its political or administrative subdivisions, and government owned enterprises and
       agencies that are not eligible to bid under paragraph 1.8(b) of the Procurement Guidelines
       or participate under paragraph 1.11(c) of the Consultant Guidelines. ”

       “15. The Bank has established a Sanctions Board, and related procedures, for the purpose
       of making such determinations. The procedures of the Sanctions Board sets forth the full
       set of sanctions available to the Bank. In addition, the Bank has adopted an internal
       protocol outlining the process to be followed in implementing debarments by other
       financiers, and explaining how cross-debarments will be posted on the Bank’s website
       and otherwise be made known to staff and other stakeholders. ”
