Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ReportNo: 21934
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-30690)
ON
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.0 MILLION
TO THE
ISTRIA AND PULA WATER WORKS
IN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA
FOR AN
ISTRIA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 20, 2001
Infrastructure Sector Unit
Country Department for Croatia, Bulgaria and Romania
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = Kuna (HRK)
HRK 1 = US$ 0.12
US$ I = HRK 8.09
During Implementation (1990 to 2000)
2000 - US$1 = HRK 8.16; 1999 - US$1 = HRK 7.65; 1998 - US$1 = HRK 6.25; 1997 - US$1 = HRK
6.30; 1996 - US$1 = HRK 5.54; 1995 - US$1  HRK 5.32; 1994 - US$1 = HRK 5.63; 1993 - US$1
HRD 6561; 1992 - US$I = HRD798; 1991 -US$ 1 = NYD 19.75; 1990 - US$ I = NYD 10.65
At Appraisal (1988)
Currency Unit: New Yugoslav Dinar (NYD)
1989 - US$1 = NYD 2.88; 1988 - US$1 = NYD 0.25; 1987 - US$1   NYD 0.07
FISCAL YEAR
January to   December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BWW           Butoniga Water Works
FSRY          Former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia
IWSSP        Istria Water Supply and Sewerage Project
IWW           Istria Water Works
Ipcd          liters per capita per day
1/s           liters per second
mm3           million cubic meters
MEIP          Municipal Environmental Infrastructure Project
PWW           Pula Water Works
RWW           Rizana Water Works (in Slovenia)
SAR           Staff Appraisal Report
SCWWSP        Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Project
TWP           Treated Water Pipeline
UFW           Unaccounted-For-Water
WTP           Water Treatment Plant
WWTP          Wastewater Treatment Plant
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Manager/Director:    Andrew Vorkink, ECCO5
Sector Director:    Ricardo Halperin (ECSIN)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Manuel Marino (ECSIN)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CROATIA - ISTRIA WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         I
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry              2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                 4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   6
6. Sustainability                                                                        8
7. Bank and Borrower Perforrnance                                                        8
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     10
9. Partner Comments                                                                     11
10. Additional Infornation                                                             12
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    13
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfonnance                                      23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  24
Annex 8. Project Outputs by Components                                                 25
Annex 9. Key Indicators of Project Implementation                                      27
Annex 10. Key Indicators of Project Operation                                          28
Annex 11. Sewerage Investments under the Project                                       29
Annex 12. Borrower's Contribution (Operational Plans)                                  35
Annex 13. Financial Statements (IWW and PWW)                                           41
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P039002                                         Project Name: ISTRIA WATER SUPPLY &
SEWERAGE
Team Leader: Manuel G. Marino                               TL Unit: ECSIN
ICR Tvpe: Core ICR                                          Report Date: June 22, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: ISTRIA WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE                   L/C/TFNumber: CPL-30690
CountrylDepartment: CROATIA                                                Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: WU - Urban Water Supply
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  11/20/87                                 Effective: 07/31/89             05/31/90
Appraisal.  06/19/88                                   MTR.
Approval:  05/23/89                                  Closing:  12/31/95            12/31/2000
Bolrower/lmplementingAgency. ISTRIA WW & PULA WW/BUTONIGA WW
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:       Johannes Linn                              Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:      Andrew Vorkink                             Eugenio Lari
Sector Manager:       Ricardo Halperin                            Hans Apitz
Team Leader at ICR:   Manuel Marino                              Richard A. MacEwen
ICR Primary Author:   Kishore Nadkami
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainabilitv: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                         S
Project at Risk at Any Tinme: Yes
There was no review by QAG for the project at entty. The QAG Review on Portfolio Perfotmance for FY99 rated
project supervision as "OOutstandinig."
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:



Objectives: The development objectives of the Istria Water Supply and Sewerage Project (IWSSP) were
to: (i) eliminate existing water shortages in the project area; (ii) provide additional water supply capacity
needed for the expansion of the tourism industry and growth in domestic and industrial/commercial demand
in the project area; (iii) reduce unaccounted-for-water in the Pula Water Works (PWW) distribution
network; (iv) protect existing water sources and coastal tourist areas from pollution; and (v) increase
efficiency in the delivery of water supply and sewerage services in the project area.
Assessment: The project objectives were clear, realistic and important for the country given the prevailing
context in which they were defined. The IWSSP was designed in the period 1979 to 1987 when Croatia
was still a republic within the Former Socialist Republic of Yugoslavia (FSRY). Tourism was important
for the FSRY economy, and particularly for the project area which accounted for about 25 percent of
tourist overnights in FSRY. During the summer months, the population of the project area doubled with
the arrival of temporary residents and tourists. Critical water shortages had developed, particularly in
1986 and 1987, during the dry summer months at the peak of the tourist season. Inadequate water supply
was judged to be the most pressing constraint to further development of tourism. Both the Borrowers, the
Istria and the Pula Water Works respectively, were experienced utilities that had been engaged in water
supply for a number of years. Although the project was the largest single investment that they had
undertaken, it was not unusually complex or risky, or unduly demanding in regard to implementation
capacity. The pollution objective was important from the standpoint of long-term tourism development, but
including it as a project objective was risky since the Borrowers (the Istria Water Works and the Pula
Water Works) under the project did not have responsibility for sewerage and Bank loan funds were not
allocated for financing this component. The Borrowers' lack of ownership led to the monitoring and
evaluation problems described below.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Components: The original components of the project were the following:
Water supply and treatment consisting of: (i) a sanitary protective zone for the Butoniga reservoir; and (ii)
the Butoniga water treatment plant (WTP) with a capacity of 1,000 liters per second (1/s), expandable in
the future to 2,000 lls, including a new water pumping station and a treated water pumping station.
Water transmission and storage consisting of: (i) a 12 km pipeline for raw water and treated water from
the Butoniga reservoir to the Butoniga WTP (0.8 km) and from the WTP to Beram (11.2 km); (ii) a 46 km
treated water pipeline from Beram to Loborika with 32.7 km of branching trunk mains connecting the
community centers of Rovinj, Pazin and Pula, and a pumping station at Pazin; (iii) distribution storage
totalling 19,000 m3; and (iv) telemetering and controls for system operation.
Institutional strengthening of the Butoniga, Istrian and Pula Water Works (BWW, IWW and PWW
respectively) including: (i) technical assistance to PWW for the reduction of unaccounted-for water
(UFW); (ii) a study of the feasibility of combining IWW and PWW, and the operation of the Butoniga
water supply system; (iii) a study of IWW's and PWW's tariff structures; (iv) a sewerage master plan for
Central Istria; (v) equipment for the implementation, operation and maintenance of the Butoniga water
supply system and instrumentation for water loss control in the Pula water distribution system; and (vi)
training courses and materials for the training of the staffs of IWW, PWW and BWW.
- 2 -



Sewerage including construction of sewers, collectors, rehabilitation/replacement of pumping stations, and
rehabilitation/construction of treatment plants in six communities in Croatia.
Assessment of Project Design and Components:  Project design correctly identified and addressed the
main constraints to improvement and further development of the water supply system. Sizing of facilities
was based on the then anticipated growth of domestic population, industrial investment and production, and
tourism in the area. The sewerage component was added at a late stage in project preparation to address
concerns in regard to the proper collection and disposal of the additional water to be produced and sold
under the project. Project design took into account experience under earlier water and sewerage projects in
FSRY where physical targets had largely been met but there were significant shortfalls in institutional and
financial achievements. The institutional component correctly identified the main issues including an
examination of consolidation of the operations of IWW and PWW under a single management, preparation
of a sewerage master plan for Central Istria, and examination of the Borrowers' tariff structures. There
were, however, some weaknesses in design of the implementation arrangements for the sewerage component
which led to little effective control on the part of the two Borrowers or the Bank to monitor and influence
progress in implementation. The implementation agencies were distinct and independent of the two
Borrowers and not financially dependent on them in any way. Moreover, the investments were not being
financed from the Bank loan but from local funds. Both factors may have contributed to the Borrowers and
the Bank not monitoring progress and evaluating impact in regard to the sewerage component on the same
basis as the other components of the project. Although an integral part of the project design, a further
indication of the differential treatment of the sewerage component from the outset was the fact that no
monitoring and evaluation indicators were included under the project for this component.
3.4 Revised Coinponents:
The original components and project description were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Eitry:
The project objectives were consistent with the Bank's country assistance strategy for FSRY at the time and
with the Government's priorities. The project appropriately took into account the Bank's safeguard policies
existing at the time. Quality at entry was satisfactory in regard to the water supply components of the
project. Appraisal was based on an advanced status of preparation in regard to availability of final designs
and land acquisition. Quality at entry was also satisfactory for the institutional strengthening components
under the project where detailed terms of reference had been prepared for each task. Quality at entry is less
clear for the sewerage components when assessed by present standards. The assessments, including in the
SAR, did not include a separate evaluation of the economic and financial justification for the sewerage
investments which included both wastewater collectors and treatment plants. As indicated above, no
monitoring and evaluation indicators and arrangements were specified for the sewerage component.
The main risk to project implementation and achievement of objectives was identified as that arising from
a deterioration in the macroeconomic situation, but this risk was judged to be acceptable in view of the
government's economic reform program, then being supported by IMF Stand-By Credits and the Bank's
proposed Second Structural Adjustment Loan. Clearly, what could not have been foreseen at the time was
the subsequent break-up of FSRY, the ensuing war situation in the period 1991 to 1995, and its direct and
indirect impacts on project implementation. Resulting economic conditions in the project area, including
the effects of the fall in tourism, restructuring of industry following from macroeconomic and structural
- 3 -



reform, and the ensuing impact on household incomes, combined to reduce the demand for water as
compared to levels projected at appraisal. These unfavorable conditions impacted adversely on the
Borrowers and the other implementing agencies, and affected project implementation through delays in
commitment and disbursement of counterpart funds. Notwithstanding the impact of the war, the Bank's
projections of water consumption may have been overly optimistic in view of the significant and persistent
shortfalls during implementation in water consumption among all categories of consumers, including
households, where the price elasticity of demand may not have been adequately taken into account.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achie eement of objectiv e:
The overall outcome, on balance, is assessed as satisfactory taking into account the conditions and
circumstances under which the project was implemented. The direct and indirect effects of the war and the
subsequent lingering unsettled conditions in the region persisted through the greater part of the
implementation period. In this environment, the project met its objective of eliminating water shortages by
completion of the transmission line component and an emergency program implemented by the Borrowers
to use water from the Butoniga Reservoir, although it was helped in this regard by the fact that actual
demand for water was much less than projected from all categories of consumers. When the Butoniga
WTP is completed (civil works and installation are expected to be completed by December 2001, to be
followed by testing and commissioning by June 2002), the project is expected to meet its objective of
providing additional water supply capacity for the future expansion of tourism and growth in domestic,
industrial and commercial demand. However, the benefits of this additional capacity would only gradually
be realized over the medium to longer term as the tourism industry progressively revives to, and exceeds,
pre-war (i.e., late 1980s) levels, and industrial and commercial growth accelerates. Institutional objectives
were also achieved albeit to a lesser extent than expected. There have been significant efficiency
improvements in delivery of water services from the newly constructed facilities, including through
increases in the number of connections. In regard to reduction of UFW, both IWW and PWW were
resource-constrained in achieving any significant reduction in UFW levels since they had to allocate scarce
funds for necessary expansions in connections. PWW was successful in reducing UFW volumes by about
15 percent in absoiute terms while the volumes increased by about 25 percent in case of IWW. The
percentage share of UFW in total water production increased over time since water production declined
substantially over the implementation period. Further institutional strengthening, particularly in regard to
the anticipated organizational integration of IWW, PWW and BWW has yet to take place since the
decision in this regard has been postponed until after the Butoniga system is completed, expected by June
2002. Environmental monitoring of coastal waters has shown striking improvements in water quality with
sample results showing a decline in unacceptable samples from 18 percent in the early 1990s to 0.34
percent in 2000. The project therefore appears to have enabled achievement of its objective of protecting
existing water sources and tourist areas from pollution with the completion of a substantial portion of the
planned sewerage investments and the beginning of implementation of the recommendations of the study on
protection of groundwater resources in Central Istria.
4.2 Oultputs bv components.
Details of outputs by components are provided in Annex 8 and summarized in this section. After the initial
delays due to the war situation during 1991 to 1995, most physical objectives were realized over time with
some exceptions where completion has yet to be accomplished. These include the Butoniga Water
- 4 -



Treatment Plant (WTP) which, together with its raw water and treated water pumping stations, is the
largest and most expensive component under the project. The WTP had earlier been targeted for
completion by mid-1993, but implementation was delayed by the onset of the war. A turn-key contract was
signed with an Austrian firm (the Contractor) in June 1995 with a planned completion date of June 1997.
Implementation has been seriously delayed for the reasons discussed in Section 5.3. below. Completion of
all civil works and installation is now targeted for December 2001. This will be followed by a period of
testing during the spring of 2002. Commissioning is now expected by June 2002. Other facilities where
completion has been delayed include three distribution reservoirs and a purnping station  whose
construction has been postponed until after the completion of the WTP, and two sections of the branch
mains network. About 70 percent (in value) of the sewerage investments have been completed. The
remaining have been postponed reflecting the changed circumstances in the project area since appraisal.
Financial objectives of the project were not realized. Both Borrowers, IWW and PWW, continued to make
operating losses for most years during the implementation period. Both IWW and PWW made periodic
increases in tariffs, as a result of which average tariffs in the project area are among the highest in Croatia.
However, these were not enough to offset the effects of the fall in water sales among all classes of
consumers, and the inability of the utilities to make significant improvements in operating costs, including
through substantial reductions in UFW levels. As a result, operating ratios continue to be much higher
than projected. The impact was felt in the lack of timely availability of sufficient internally generated funds
for the counterpart financing for the project which also contributed to a lengthening of the implementation
period.
Institutional objectives were realized to a limited extent. As a result of the experience gained under the
project, IWW, PWW and BWW have increased their implementation capacity, and the facilities
constructed under the project should further reinforce their technical operations. A study on protection of
groundwater sources in Central Istria is being completed. The first phase dealing with issues related to
small settlements have been completed, and a start has been made in implementing recommendations,
including construction of pilot treatment plants for small settlements. However, achievements in respect of
other institutional objectives did not match expectations. Although the various studies in regard to
institutional strengthening, e.g., the study on optimal management organization and tariff structures were
undertaken, they have not had an impact on the Borrowers' operations.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at appraisal was 15.5 percent (for the combined Istria and
Slovene Coast Projects). The bulk (82 percent) of the projected incremental benefits were expected to
come from increased tourist revenues. In fact, for the reasons discussed earlier, tourism declined
drastically during the period of implementation, and the number of tourist nights fell by 1993 to a low of 23
percent of pre-conflict levels (late 1980s). Apart from the fall in tourism, water consumption has decreased
in other consumer categories as well, particularly in industry which has undergone substantial
restructuring. In the special circumstances that  prevailed in the project implementation period,
implementation took twice as long as projected, and realized economic benefits were much lower up to the
present time due to the fall in tourism and in water sales. For these reasons, the re-estimated ERR for the
project is relatively low at about two percent (details in Annex 3). However, in the special circumstances
of the project, the ERR would not be an appropriate measure of the economic benefits. Tourism has
revived substantially since 1995 and has reached about 75 percent of pre-war levels by 2000. The water
supply and treatment facilities set up under the project would yield important economic benefits over the
medium to longer term through the greater reliability and improved quality of services.
-5 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
A financial rate of return (FRR) was not estimated at appraisal. Other financial indicators, e.g., operating
ratios, did not meet the expectations at appraisal, (details in Annex 13).
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact has been substantial in some areas but modest in others.
IWW and PWW are experienced utilities and the project has contributed further to strengthening their
technical capacity and operations by providing modem, efficient facilities. BWW, set up under the project,
has progressively increased its experience and skills in project implementation. However, not all the
envisaged benefits have been realized as yet. In regard to technical assistance, while the studies included
under the project have been undertaken, their impact on the Borrowers and implementing agencies has been
limited. In the case of the study to examine consolidation of IWW and PWW operations under a single
management, consideration of the recommendation to consolidate has been deferred to after the completion
of the Butoniga water supply system which has been delayed to June 2002. The study on tariff structures
did not have any impact on the Borrowers' financial performance. The Borrowers decided not to utilize
Bank funds for training activities, and designed and financed them from their own sources. On balance, the
project's institutional development impact is assessed as modest.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Project implementation was affected by the direct and indirect impact of events unfolding from the
break-up of FSRY starting in 1990, and the war situation that prevailed in the period 1991 to 1995. For
the project area, the major effects came from the initial declines and subsequent slowness in recovery of
tourism, industrial and commercial activity, with sharp falls in their water consumption. These factors
together impacted on household incomes, affecting consumption by households. The shortfall in revenues
from tourist taxes caused the Government to find other sources, and sometimes affected timely counterpart
financing contributions from the Govemment. The financial bankruptcy of the Croatian civil works
subcontractor (one of the largest such firms in Croatia) and its serious impact on implementation of the
Butoniga WTP was outside the control of either the Government or the implementing agencies.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project financing plan for the Bank-financed part of the project (i.e., excluding the sewerage
components), as agreed at appraisal, envisaged a contribution of about 7 percent from the Republican
Government, and 24 percent from the governments of the six participating Communities. Occasional
delays in timely approval and contribution of counterpart funds affected implementation of certain
components. Overall, however, both the Republican and Communal governments contributed their shares
of counterpart financing as required.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The actual implementation period up to completion is now likely to be over 12 years compared to the
original estimate of six years. A major reason for initial delays was the changed environment, starting with
- 6 -



the war in FSRY in 1991 and its after-effects. However, most water supply components were
progressively completed with the exception of the WTP, three distribution reservoirs and a pumping
station.
Deferral of the distribution reservoirs until after the completion of the WTP and operation of the Butoniga
water supply system is justifiable for the reasons indicated (Annex 8). The WTP had originally been
planned for completion by mid-1993. However, there were numerous delays from the outset, starting with
differences between BWW and the consultant institutes in regard to preparation of the original designs.
BWW eventually decided to award a turn-key contract to make up for lost time and to assign responsibility
for contract performance to a single contractor. BWW prepared new bidding documents fairly rapidly with
the help of international experts, but the Bank review of the new documents and the bidding process
(including pre-qualification and two-stage bidding) took 36 months, very much longer than the average
Bank project. The reasons it took so long were disagreements between the Bank and BWW over the
contents of the bidding documents, and bidder complaints in regard to pre-qualification results and the
award of the contract.
The turn-key contract was finally awarded and signed in June 1995. The original target date for
completion was June 1997, but completion is now projected for June 2002. Contributing factors to the
overall delay were (i) the growing financial problems and eventual bankruptcy of the Croatian civil works
sub-contractor; (ii) delays in construction of a pilot plant, and further delays when testing results indicated
a need for a change in the design; (iii) delays in meeting Croatian construction permit requirements; and
(iv) persistent and extensive differences in contract interpretation between BWW and the Contractor. These
appear to have resulted from the Contractor's interpretation of the contract that he was in complete control
of the design, and that his principal obligation was to design and construct a WTP according to his
proposal that produced the agreed output. BWW, on the other hand, frequently asked for design changes
that the Contractor believed were unnecessary and not supported by the contract specifications. The
Borrowers seriously considered cancellation of the contract. Eventually, after the intervention of the Bank
(Section 7.2), both sides agreed to compromise where differences existed. In hindsight, BWW could
possibly have saved time by carrying out the pilot plant studies and final design under a separate contract
from the construction.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Costs: Total project cost up to completion for the Bank-financed part of the project is now estimated at
about US$96.9 million, compared to the appraisal estimate of US$93.7 million (base cost of US$77.5
million contingencies of US$12.3 million, and capitalized interest during construction of US$3.9 million).
Project costs have been affected by the longer than expected implementation period, but this is offset, to
some extent, by the postponement of some investments until after completion (e.g., distribution reservoirs,
pumping station, and two sections of branching mains). Project completion is now expected by June 2002,
a delay of six years as compared to the original estimate. The major cost increase has occurred under the
Butoniga WTP component where the estimated cost up to completion is now for US$36.6 million including
the transmission line Buje-Buzet and the already completed transformer station. The turn-key contract for
construction of Butoniga WTP is now US$32.5 million, out of which an increase of US$5.9 million (58
percent over the original estimate of US$10 million) was on account of civil works while costs of
engineering works and equipment increased to ATS 218.5 million, an increase of ATS 26.8 million or 14
percent over the original estimate of ATS 191.7 million, due to the combined effect of the delayed
implementation and changes in the contract required by BWW.
- 7-



Financing: The final amount of the Bank loan was US$26.1 million after cancellation of an unutilized
balance of US$1.9 million at loan closing in December 2000. The loan accounts for about 27 percent of
project financing for the Bank-financed part of the project; the balance of US$70.8 million (73 percent)
comes from counterpart funds, of which the Government contribution is US$15.2 million (16 percent), the
participating towns US$48.3 million (50 percent), and the Borrowers US$7.3 million (7 percent).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalejbrsutstainabilitv rating:
The water supply components of the project are likely to be sustainable. IWW and PWW are experienced
utilities. Both the national and the local governments are aware of the importance of clean and reliable
water supply for the local population and for sustaining the revival in tourism, which will continue to be of
vital economic significance for the region and for Croatia. Completion of the Butoniga WTP will further
reinforce the medium to long-term adequacy and reliability of the water supply system. The Borrowers,
with the support of the local and national governments, intend to make arrangements for the future sound
operation of their water supply systems. Sustainability for the sewerage components would depend upon
the successful implementation and operation of these components.
6.2 Transition arrangemnent to reg-ular operations:
As indicated earlier (Section 3.5), since the water supply facilities constructed under the project were to be
shared between IWW and PWW, the two Borrowers had established BWW as the joint organization to
undertake the implementation of the project. Once the WTP is completed, and the entire Butoniga water
supply system is in operation, IWW, PWW and BWW would have to come to an agreement on the future
organizational arrangements for operation of the system. The management study carried out in 1994 had
made certain recommendations, including for combining the operations of IWW and PWW under a single
management to secure efficiency gains. IWW, PWW and BWW intend to re-visit these recommendations
once the new Butoniga water supply is in operation.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank performance was satisfactory in the lending phase. During project identification and preparation, the
Bank was substantially involved in assisting the Borrowers and the other implementing agencies in the
design and development of the project. The Bank was instrumental to persuade the Borrowers to include
the sewerage component under the project to ensure that the additional wastewater resulting from the
project was properly collected and disposed of. However, the Bank did not lend for the sewerage
component, partly because there were multiple agencies responsible for sewerage, and the Borrowers were
not interested in assuming the responsibility for sub-lending. As described earlier in Section 3.3, the
project design did not provide for adequate control on the part of the Bank and the Borrowers for
monitoring progress and evaluating impact of this part of the project. In retrospect, the Bank should have
limited the objectives of the Project to improving water supply in the project area and not included the
sewerage component over which neither the Bank nor the Borrowers had any control over its
implementation.
In the circumstances prevailing at the time of appraisal, when the FSRY was still in existence, the main risk
was perceived to be the possible impact on the project from a deteriorating macroeconomic situation. In
- 8 -



light of the FSRY's ongoing economic reform, with Bank and IMF adjustment support, this risk was
deemed to be acceptable. Clearly, what could not have been foreseen was the impact on the project,
particularly in the early period of implementation, of the break-up of FSRY and the ensuing war between
1991 to 1995. Nevertheless, in hindsight, the Bank's projections in regard to water sales may have been
somewhat optimistic as discussed earlier in Section 3.3.
7.2 Supervision:
Bank performance during supervision was satisfactory in regard to the water supply components of the
project. During project implementation, the Bank was responsive and flexible in making modifications and
the loan closing date was extended thrice, from December 1995 to December 1997, then to June 1999 and
subsequently, to June 2000. The Bank carried out a total of 12 formal supervision missions, usually in
conjunction with the concurrently implemented SCWSSP until the completion of the latter in December
1998. These missions were supplemented, from time to time, by visits undertaken by supervision staff in
the Bank's Resident Office in Zagreb. Bank supervision was generally effective in regard to monitoring
project progress in regard to the technical aspects, with continuity in involvement of the Bank technical
staff for almost the entire implementation period, despite the many major and minor reorganizations that
occurred within the Bank. When differences arose between BWW and the Contractor in regard to the WTP
contract, the Bank was proactive in seeking a solution by providing an independent expert to assess the
situation and help resolve the conflict. This was recognized in the QAG Review of Portfolio Performance
for fiscal 1999 where the Bank's supervision performance was rated "Outstanding." Bank supervision of
the institutional strengthening and financial aspects of the project was less effective. The Borrowers were
not able to meet the projected financial performance indicators for most years. In respect of the sewerage
components, as discussed earlier, the Bank's involvement, from the outset, was more limited. In hindsight,
given the continued importance of these components to achievement of one of the project's objectives, i.e.
protecting existing water sources and tourist areas from environmental pollution, the Bank should have
given greater attention to monitoring progress and evaluating impact. Given the extended period of
implementation (12 years instead of six as originally planned), a comprehensive Mid-Term Review may
have helped in re-evaluating the continued relevance and appropriateness of project objectives and
components, and setting up monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The Bank's institutional memory and
records for the project are deficient in some respects. Project files are incomplete as regards institutional
records. The many institutional changes that took place in the period, e.g., multiple re-organizations,
compounded by the frequency of physical moves of staff and files during the period, may have contributed
in part.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On balance, overall Bank performance is rated as satisfactory although it could have been enhanced in
certain aspects of lending and supervision as indicated above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the two Borrowers, IWW and PWW, was satisfactory during preparation. Both
Borrowers were closely involved in project design and development, and collaborated well with the Bank
counterparts.
-9-



7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation was satisfactory. Despite occasional delays in
timely approval and contribution of counterpart funds, both the central and the local governments generally
contributed their shares of counterpart financing as required.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
On balance, the overall performance of the implementing agencies involved in the Bank-financed part of the
project was satisfactory. BWW's performance as implementation agency for the water supply component
was satisfactory although, to some extent, BWW's differences with the Contractor, which affected
implementation of the WTP, could have been avoided with better communication. IWW and PWW are
both experienced utilities, although both have been less successful than expected in improving efficiency in
respect of reducing UFW volumes. Financial performance for both Borrowers has been below levels
projected at appraisal mainly due to lower than projected water sales in the changed economic environment
after the break-up of FSRY, but also reflecting the inability to reduce operating costs, including through
reductions in UFW volumes.
7.7 Overall Borrower pefjbrmance:
On balance, overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory although it could have been enhanced in
some respects as indicated above.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned from the design and implementation of the project are the following:
(i)    Particular attention needs to be paid to forecasting of water sales in environments where major
macroeconomic and structural reforms are being undertaken in view of the impact of (a) the elasticity of
demand on household consumption, and (b) the reform on industrial restructuring, and consequently, on
industrial and commercial demand for water;
(ii)    A  successful program  for reduction of unaccounted-for-water requires strong Borrower
commitment, and a well-designed, well-supported program of action; the Borrowers may have been able to
make greater progress had they availed themselves of the technical assistance possibilities under the
project;
(iii)   The Bank needs to stay focussed on the overall objectives of the project during implementation;
greater attention could have been paid during supervision to setting up appropriate arrangements for
monitoring progress and evaluating impact of the sewerage components which were an integral part of the
project and continued to be relevant for achievement of project objectives, even though they were not
financed directly under the Bank loan; and
(iv)   In cases where the implementing agency has well-qualified technical staff with specific ideas about
the technical aspects of the project, as in the case of BWW, the Bank should be particularly careful in
supporting a tum-key contract. In the case of the Butoniga WTP, a separate contract design would
possibly have provided BWW a better opportunity to have more impact in obtaining the type of plant it
desired, and eliminated delays caused by disputes over design details and equipment selection.
- 10 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower-/implenmenting agency:
Between 1988 and 1989 the Bank, together with BWW, IWW and PWW, made the feasibility
study for the approval of the loan for construction of the Istria Water Supply System - Butoniga Water
Works. It was a period of great shortage of water on the territory of the Istria peninsula, especially in the
summer season in 1986 and 1987, when numerous consumers, and especially tourist settlements, had been
without potable water for more than 12 hours a day.
Such occurrences have proved the justifiableness of the decision to realise this project, which will
ensure new quantities of potable water and undisturbed water supply for existing and future consumers.
The war period and the consequences of the war have manifested themselves on this project as well
as on the decrease in tourist and industrial consumption of water.
In spite of that, necessary water from the Butoniga reservoir has been used since 1989 through the
newly constructed pipeline, water tanks and temporary plant, to compensate for the shortage of water in the
summer season.
Such an early inclusion of the unfinished Butoniga Water Works into the water supply system
justifies the construction of this plant.
In the process of preparation and harmonisation of tender documentation for international
competitive bidding, and the award of the contract for the construction of the Plant, the Bank and the
BWW had intensive discussions while harmonising the documentation with the recommendations of the
Bank, legal framework, technical standards and needs of BWW. The Client and the future user of the
water supply facilities had a very clear aim of having a fully functional plant constructed for the most
economical water treatment with the lowest possible cost of energy and other operating costs.
Knowing our opinion and intentions, the Bank, having approved the Loan and having established
the instruments for the loan redemption, should have given the Client more autonomy in defining provisions
of the Contract from which result the rights and the responsibilities of the Contractor. It is indisputable
that after the taking-over, the user of the newly built facilities is the sole owner, that he has to maintain it,
and solve all the harmful consequences resulting from the Contract.
Because of known reasons, the user of the Loan did not fully use the Bank Loan even after the loan
validity period had been prolonged three times. As it was impossible to use the remaining US$2 million,
since the Client had established and contracted his liabilities for payments, the situation got worse.
In the period when the loan was used, the Client had on time, thanks to the Ministry of Finance of
the Republic Croatia, fulfilled all his liabilities for the repayment of the Loan to the Bank. By the end of
2000, the Client repaid to the Bank the loan amount of USS 18.96 million. In spite of Force Majeure, which
has influenced the dynamics of execution of the works, the contract for the construction of the BWTP is
nearing its completion.
Taking into consideration all the aforementioned aspects, we are of the opinion that the Bank
should have made it possible for us to use the Loan completely.
-11 -



And finally we want to stress that all the officials of the Bank, who were in charge for supervision
and contract monitoring, always had a lot of understanding and support, during the project implementation.
(12) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
The following additional information is provided in Annexes to the ICR:
Annex 8: Project Outputs by Components
Annex 9: Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Annex 10: Key Indicators of Project Operation
Annex 11: Sewerage Investments
Annex 12: Borrower's Contribution (including Operational Plans)
Annex 13: IWW and PWW - Financial Statements
- 12 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
, deatorMatrlx                       Projected in tast PSR                  Actua bLatst Estmate
Note: End-of- project projections at
appraisal, where available, are shown in
parentheses below against each item
OVERALL PROJECT
Consumers with intermittent water supply    0                                  0
(0)
Reserve production capacity (60%)      0%                                      27%
Water treatment capacity constructed during 1,000 1ps                           1,000 Ips
project implementation (1,000 Ips)
ISTRIA WATER WORKS
Water production (20.7 million m3)     n.a.                                    15.4 mm3
Water sales (16.3 million m3)          n.a.                                    10.5 mm3
Average revenue per m3 (US$0.78)       n.a.                                    US$1.1 11m3
Unaccounted-for-water (21%) (4.440 mm3)  22%                                   28% (4.154 mm3)
Operating ratio (75%)                  80%                                     87%
Months accounts receivable (1.0)       2.0                                     5.0
PULA WATER WORKS
Water production (21.9 million m3)     n.a.                                    11.6 mm3
Water sales (16.4 million m3)          n.a.                                    7.9 mm3
Average revenue per m3 (US$0.60)       n.a.                                    US$0.80/m3
Unaccounted-for-water (25%) (4.670 mm3)  25%                                   32% (3.710 mm3)
Operating ratio (86%)                  80%                                     108%
Months accounts receivable (0.5)       2.0                                     15.6
NOTE: For comparability, the appraisal projections of average revenue per m3 (which were expressed in 1987 constant prices)
have been adjusted for the inflation in the US since 1987.
- 13 -



Output Indicators:
_ ndketorlMetulx l   _                               .Prjt   1. last PSR   ActuatjLat*  Wmaft
WATER SUPPLY & TREATMENT
Sanitary protectve zone for Butoniga                                          Delayed due to difficulties in purchase of
reservoir                                                                    land in fragmented parcels from several
owners and delays in issue of governing
regulation at the central govemment level.
Butoniga water treatment plant with a                                         A turn-key contract was signed in June 1995
capacity of 1,000 I/s, expandable in future to                                with an Austrian firm with an estmated
2,000 I/s, including a new pumping station                                    completion date of June 1997.
and a treated water pumping station                                           Implementation has been delayed due to: (i)
disagreements between BWW and the
Contractor over interpretation of contract
terms; ii) the bankruptcy of the Croatan civil
works subcontractor; (iii) delays in
construction of pilot plant; and (iv) delays in
meeting Croatian building permit
requirements. The contract is 85% complete
and the current projected completion date is
June 2002.
WATER TRANSMISSION & STORAGE
12 km pipeline of raw water and treated water                                 Constructed as originally proposed.
from the Butoniga reservoir to the Butoniga
treatment plant (0.8 km) and from the
treatment plant to Beram (11.2 km)
A 46 km treated water pipeline from Beram to                                  90% completed. Two sections,
Loborika with 32.7 km of branching trunk                                      Valtura-Medulin (7 km) and Mukle-Pavici (5
mains                                                                         km) remain to be constructed. The
completed pipelines are in use and supplying
water from a temporary package type water
treatment plant financed form local funds.
Distribution storage totalling 19,000 m3                                      Five distribution reservoirs with a total
capacity of 9,400 m3 have been constructed.
Three reservoirs with a capacity of 9,500 m3
and a pumping station reamin to be
constructed. The remaining three reservoirs
and the pumping stabon will be constructed
following the completion of the Butoniga
WTP and when funding becomes available.
Telemetering and controls for system                                          The Butoniga WTP and the pipelines in the
operation                                                                     component are a treated water supply
system for three independent water
distribution networks in the region. The
system will be controlled from the Butoniga
WTP. The telemetering and controls are
included in the contract for its construction,
foreseen for completion by June 2002.
- 14 -



INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Technical assistance to PWW for reduction                                    PWW did not contract technical assistance
of UFW                                                                      for UFW reduction. UFW levels iremained at
around the same volumes during project
implementation but increased from 29% of
total water production in 1989 to 32% in 2000
with an average of about 30% for the period
of project implementation due to the fall in
Study of the feasibility of combining IWW                                   water production.
and PWW, and operation of the Butoniga
water supply system                                                         The study was caried out in 1994 by an
Austrian consulting firm. The
recommendation was to combine the
management of IWW and PWW under a
single management to achieve an estimated
10% reduction in operating costs. The
Borrowers decided not to take any action on
the recommendation until the Butoniga water
supply system is completed and in operation.
Study of IWW's and PWW's tariff structures
The study was completed in 1994 by a
Croatian consultant in accordance with the
TOR in the SAR. The main objective of the
study was to review the structure of the
tariffs for possible changes that would result
in greater faimess and improved revenue
generation. The study recommended no
change in the tariff structures of the two
works.
Sewerage Master Plan for Central Istria
Studies were carried out for protection of
groundwater resources in Central Istria and
for Pazin sewage disposal.
Equipment for implementation, operation and                                 The items were procured through local
maintenance of the Butoniga water supply                                    funding as BWW, IWW and PWW decided
system and instrumentation for water loss                                   to restrict the use of Bank loan funds to
control in the Pula water distribution system                               finance major investments.
Training courses and materials for training of                              The Borrowers elected not to use Bank loan
staffs of IWW, PWW and BWW                                                  funds for this purpose. Staffs of the three
agencies attended conference and seminars
relevant for the operation of water supply
systems. Both IWW and PWW have
training programs in place and carry ot
on-the-job training.
SEWERAGE                                                                     Although a part of the project, sewerage
components were not financed by the Bank.
Information received from the Borrowers
indicates that most of the planned
investments were completed. Details are
given in Annex 10.
- 15 -



Community of Pula: (i) Valbandor sewerage                                     See comment above.
system consisting of the Valbondon-Fazana
collector, the Valbondonsewerage network,
and two pumping stations; (ii) the
Verudela/Pjescana Uvala sewerage system
and the Pula town interceptor; (iii) completion
of the Banjole sewage system, including 4
km of collector; and (iv) the Medulin
sewerage system consisting of a 0.7 km
ouffall, 220 Vs sewage treatment plant, 7 km
of sewers, and 3 pumping stations
Community of Rovinj: (i) the Rovinj center                                    See comment above.
2.3 km interceptor, including 3 pumping
stations and a 0.3 km force main; and (ii) the
Polari pumping station and the 2 km
Polari-Kuvi collector
Community of Porec: (i) an interceptor and 3                                 See comment above.
pumping stations connecting the existing
sewage treatment plants at Cervar, Lantema
and Ulika with the existing sewage treatment
plant at Materada and the extension of the
Materada sea outfall from 1.5 km to 2 km
Community of Buie: (i) a secondary treatment                                  See comment above.
plant for the old town of Buje to serve an
equivalent population of 7,000 persons; (ii) a
preliminary sewage treatment plant and a 1.5
km sea outfall for the old town of Novigrad to
serve an equivalent population of 10,00
persons; and (iii) a preliminary sewage
treatment plant and the extension of a 0.3 km
outfall to 1.5 km for Savudrija to serve an
equivalent population of 15,00 persons
Community of Buzet: sewage networks in                                        See comment above.
Buzet center to extend service to an existing
unserved population of 800 (20% of the total)
Community of Pazin: a sewage treatment                                        See comment above.
and disposal system for the old town of Pazin
and the nearby industries
End of project
- 16-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Appraisal    Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
Proiect Cost By Component                US$ rnmilion   US$ million
A. WATER SUPPLY AND TREATMENT
Sanitary Protective Zone for Butoniga Reservoir          0.40             2.40            600
Water Treatment Plant                                   23.60            36.60            155
B. TRANSMISSION & STORAGE
Butoniga- Beram Transmission                            10.50             8.50             81
Beram-Pazin-Rovinj-Pula Transmission                    36.20            31.10             86
Distribution Storage                                     4.00             7.20            180
Telemetering & Controls                                  2.20             0.90             41
C. INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
Technical Assistance, Studies & Training                 0.40             0.30             75
0 & M Equipment                                          0.20             0.20            100
D. SEWERAGE                                             40.90            27.70             68
E. OTHER                                                                  6.90
Total Baseline Cost                                    118.40           121.80            103
Physical Contingencies                                 11.90             1.20
Price Contingencies                                     7.00
Total Project Costs              137.30           123.00             90
Interest during construction     3.90            3.60              92
Total Financing Required               141.20           126.60             90
NOTES: For the Bank-financed part of the project (i.e., excluding the sewerage component), the current estimate of US$96.9
million should be compared with a corresponding appraisal estimate was US$93.7 million (composed of a base cost of US$77.5
million, contingencies of US$12.3 million, and capitalized interest during construction of US$3.9 million).
roject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category        ICa        Procurement Method2             N.B.F.     Total Cost
NC.S    .      h
1. Works                       28.10          9.60          0.00          46.40         84.10
(6.70)        (1.80)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (8.50)
2. Goods                       19.10          0.00           0.70          23.60        43.40
(12.70)        (0.00)        (0.50)         (0.00)       (13.20)
3. Services                    0.00           0.00           0.20          0.30          0.50
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.20)         (0.00)        (0.20)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00          0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
- 17 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
- Land Acquisition               (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         47.20           9.60            0.90           70.30         128.00
(19.40)         (1.80)         (0.70)          (0.00)        (21.90)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (ActuallLatest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
exwdwre                                 i    NC5 2_                       NN.BXF       Ttal cost
1. Works                         16.05           17.30          0.00           29.39          62.74
(3.14)         (4.64)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (7.78)
2. Goods                         11.66           0.00            1.97          21.51          35.14
(9.55)         (0.00)         (1.97)          (0.00)        (11.52)
3. Services                      0.00            0.00           4.98           0.00           4.98
(0.00)         (0.00)         (3.10)          (0.00)        (3.10)
4. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00            6.90          6.90
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
- Land Acquisition               (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
Total                         27.71           17.30          6.95           57.80         109.76
(12.69)         (4.64)         (5.07)         (0.00)        (22.40)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
A. Water Supply&          8.60       19.20     0.00       16.20     22.80      0.00     188.4  118.7   0.0
Treatment
B. Transmission &         19.00     42.40      0.00       6.10      40.60      0.00     32.1   95.8   0.0
Storage
C. Institutional          0.20       0.50      0.00       0.20       0.30      0.00     100.0  60.0   0.0
Strengthening
D. Sewerage               0.00      47.40      0.00       0.00      27.70      0.00      0.0    58.4   0.0
- 18 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
At appraisal, the economic analysis was carried out for the then-envisaged project as a whole,
consisting of two subprojects, the Istria and the Slovene Coast Water Supply and Sewerage Projects. The
economic rate of return (ERR) for the combined project was estimated at 15.5 percent. About 82 percent
of the incremental benefits under the project were expected to come from increased tourism revenues.
Given the unusual and unfavorable environment in which the project was implemented, with the
war between 1991 to 1995 and subsequent unsettled conditions in the region, the assumptions underlying
the appraisal analysis did not materialize. In the circumstances, a traditional ERR is not the most
appropriate measure of the potential economic benefits of the project. Nevertheless, a re-estimation has
been undertaken and the results are given in the attached table. Key assumptions are summarized below.
Capital costs: Project capital costs are based on actual costs/current estimates to completion. Future
annual investments are assumed at an average of US$2 million per year, slightly higher than appraisal
estimates to compensate for the backlog due to the resource constraints during the implementation period.
Investments in new tourist accomodation facilities were deferred during the war period and are assumed to
be increasingly taken up as tourism revives to pre-war levels. Capital costs are based on estimates at
appraisal.
Operating costs: Incremental operating costs are based on the assumptions at appraisal. For the utilities,
they are assumed at an average of 10 perecent of cumulative incremental investments. For the new tourist
accomodations, they are assumed at the greater of 25 percent of cumulative capital costs or 66 percent of
incremental tourist revenues.
Benefits: Domestic tourist overnights are assumed to increase at 1 percent per year and foreign tourist
overnights at 3 percent per year. Tourist expenditure per overnight is assumed to increase at 1 percent per
year for domestic tourists and 2 percent per year for foreign tourists from current levels of US$22 and
US$33 per overnight respectively.
No incremental benefits are assumed on account of industrial and household willingness-to-pay since
average tariffs in the project area are already among the highest in Croatia.
Project Life: Given the infrastructure nature of the investments, project life is assumed at 40 years.
Economic Rate of Return: Based on the foregoing, the ERR is re-estimated at 2 percent. Cost and benefit
streams are indicated in the attached table.
- 19-



Economic Rate of Retum Reestimatlon
(streams in US$ million)
Year Project Other Incremental Invest. In   Increm. Op.   Incremental Incremental  Industrial    Incre-  Net
Invest. Invest. Op.Costs.  New Tourist  Costs of New   Costs  Tourist     & Household  mental   Incremental
Accommod.  Accommod.                  Revenues   Willingness   Revenues Benefits
to Pay-
1989     28                3                                    31                                             -31
1990     12                4                                    16                                             -16
1991      6                5                                    11                                             -11
1992      1                5                                     6                                               -6
1993      2                5                                     7                                               -7
1994      5                5                                    10                                             -10
1995      5                6                                    11                                             -11
1996      6                7                                    13                                             -13
1997      9                7                                    16                                             -16
1998      6                8                                    14                                             -14
1999      9                9                                    18                                             -18
2000     10               10                                    20                                              -20
2001     15                11          50            15         91                                              -91
2002     10     2         12           70            30        124                                             -124
2003            2          12         100            55        169                                            -224
2004            2          12         100            80        194                                            -223
2005            2          12         100           105        219                                            -220
2006            2          12         100           130        244           29                     29         -216
2007            2          12         100           155        269           59                     59         -210
2008            2          12          50           168        232           92                     92         -140
2009            2          12          20           173        207          125                    125          -82
2010            2          12          20           178        212          161                    161          -51
2011            2          12          10           180        204          183                    183          -21
2012            2          12          10           183        207         206                     206           -1
2013            2          12          10           154         178         230                    230          52
2014            2          12          10           170        194          255                    255          60
2015            2          12          10           187        211          280                    280           69
2016            2          12          10           204        228          306                    306          77
2017            2          12          10           222        246          333                    333          86
2018            2          12          10           240        265          360                    360          95
2019            2          12          10           259        284          389                    389         105
2020            2          12          10           279        303         418                     418         115
2021            2          12          10           299        323          448                    448         125
2022            2          12          10           319        344          479                    479         135
2023            2          12          10           341        365          511                    511         146
2024            2          12          10           363        387          544                    544         157
2025            2          12          10           385        410          578                    578         168
2026            2          12          10           409        433          613                    613         180
2027            2          12          10           433        457          649                    649         192
2028            2          12          10           457        482          686                    686         204
2029            2          12          10           483        507          724                    724         217
2030            2          12          10           509        534          763                    763         230
|ERR =     2%1
Note: No incremental benefits are assumed on account of industrial and household willingness to pay since tariffs in the project area
are already among the highest in Croatia.
- 20 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation   Development
Month/Year   Count            Specialty                      Progress       Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
9/1987                     2   WSE, FNA
12/1987                    2   WSE, FNA
4/1988                      3   WSE, FNA, ECO
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1988                     2   WSE, LAW
12/1988                    3   WSE, FIN, ECO
4/1989                      2   WSE, ENE
Supervision
10/1989                     1  WSE                                  S              S
10/1990                     1   WSE                                 S              S
3/1991                      1   WSE                                 S               S
4/1992                      2   WSE, FNA                            S               S
3/1993                      1   WSE                                 S               S
3/1994                      3   WSE, FNA, ECO                       S               S
3/1996                      1  WSE                                  S              S
5/1997                      1  WSE                                  S               S
5/1998                      1  WSE                                  S               S
4/1999                      2   WSE,OPO                             S               S
1/2000                      2   WSE, WSE                            U              S
7/2000                      2   WSE, OPO                            S               S
ICR
5/2001                     2    FNA,OPO                             S               S
WSE = Water & Sanitary Engineer; FNA   Financial Analyst; ECO = Economist; ENE = Environmental
Engineer; OPO = Operations Officer
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation               18.3                        50.6
Appraisal/Negotiation                    16.5                        46.7
Supervision                              13.9                        45.1
ICR                                       6.0                        26.7
Total                                    54.7                       169.1
- 21 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Sector Policies                       O H  OSULOM  * N  O NA
L Physical                               OH *SUOM ON ONA
El Financial                             O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Institutional Development              0 H  0 SU * M  0 N  0 NA
l Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
i Gender                          O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
O Other (Please specify)          OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Private sector development            O H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Public sector management              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 22 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
O Lending                                            OHS OS OU OHU
O Supervision                                        OHS OS  OU  OHU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O u O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                              Rating
O Preparation                                        OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agencyperformance                   OHS OS  OU  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS O U O HU
- 23 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Staff Appraisal Report, Number 7479-YU, dated May 1, 1989
2. Loan Agreement and Guarantee Agreement, dated February 1, 1990
3.   Regional and Departmental Files
4.  Information Submitted by the Borrowers
- 24 -



Additional Annex 8. Project Output by Components
Water Supply and Treatment
Sanitary Protective Zone for the Butoniga Reservoir: The protective zone was defined on the basis of a
study undertaken by a Croatian institute in 1990. However, a decision in regard to the establishment of the
zone has been delayed by (i) the difficulty in reaching a decision at the level of the Istrian County since the
zone involves multiple local self-government units and (ii) implications arising from changes in
national-level regulations that are still in progress. Other difficulties have been caused by the problems in
purchasing land in fragmented parcels from a large number of owners.
Butoniga Water Treatment Plant: The WTP, together with its raw water and treated water pumping
stations, is the largest and most expensive component under the project. The WTP had earlier been
targeted for completion by mid-1993, but an implementation start was delayed as the combined result of the
post-FSRY conflict effects, BWW's rejection of the original design, and complaints during the bidding
process. A turn-key design-and-build contract was signed with an Austrian firm (the Contractor) in June
1995 with a targeted completion date of June 1997. Implementation has been delayed due to: (i)
disagreements between BWW and the Contractor over interpretation of contract terms; (ii) the bankruptcy
of the Croatian civil works sub-contractor (one of the largest and most qualified engineering/construction
firms in Croatia at the time the contract was signed); (iii) delays in construction of a pilot plant, and
further delays due to failure of the plant tests to confirm the proposed design; and (iv) delays in meeting
Croatian building permit requirements. As a result of the procedural delays and changes requested to the
contract by the Borrowers, the contract price increased from US$26 million to US$32.5 million
representing an increase of about 58 percent in civil works and 14 percent in engineering and equipment
cost. The contract is about 85 percent complete in terms of payment and the target date for completion is
June 2002. Completion of the WTP will enable the full achievement of the project objective of ending water
shortages in Istria and providing future supply capacity necessary for the continuing expansion of tourism,
the mainstay of the local economy.
Transmission and Storage
Raw Water and Treated Water Pipelines to Beram: The 12 km pipeline of raw water from the Butoniga
reservoir to the Butoniga WTP (0.8 krm) and from the WTP to Beram (11.2 krn) was constructed as
planned.
Treated Water Pipeline from Beram to Loborika: In regard to the 46 km TWP from Beram to Loborika
and an associated 33 km of branching trunk mains, about 90 percent of the works have been completed.
Two sections - Valtura-Medulin (7 km) and Mukle-Pavici (5 km) remain to be constructed.    The
completed pipelines are in use from a temporary package-type treatment plant constructed by the
Borrowers under an emergency program financed from local funds.
Distribution Storage: Against the planned storage capacity of 19,000 m3, five reservoirs (2x3,500 m3,
lx900 m3,1x800 m3 and lxX600 m3) with a total capacity of 9,400 m3 have been constructed. Three
reservoirs (lx5,500 m3 and 2x2,00 m3) with a total capacity of 9,500 m3, and a pumping station remain to
be constructed. The construction of the remaining reservoirs and the pumping station has been deferred by
the Borrowers until after the completion of the WTP and will depend upon availability of funds. The effect
of the delay in construction of the remaining facilities has been mitigated to some extent by the lower than
projected demand for water, but the extra capacity would be needed as demand progressively increases in
future.
- 25 -



Telemetering and Controls: The telemetering and controls are included in the contract for construction of
the WTP, with completion targeted for June 2002. The Butoniga WTP and the pipelines in the component
are a treated water supply system for three independent water distribution networks in the region. The
system will be controlled from the WTP.
Institutional Strengthening
Technical Assistance to PWW for UFW Reduction: PWW did not contract the envisaged technical
assistance. While PWW was successful in preventing any increases in UFW volumes, percentage shares of
UFW in total water production increased in the project implementation period from 29 percent in 1989 to
32 percent in 2000 with an average of about 30 percent for the entire period due to the fall in water
production. PWW attributes the apparent lack of success to the fact that (i) the length of the affected water
supply network replaced was not sufficient for significant reductions in losses and (ii) it had to take over
the water supply networks for two big settlements with high water losses which have affected the overall
UFW reduction performance. PWW intends to continue to intensify its UFW reduction program, and
actions and measures to this end are included in its Operational Plan.
Feasibility Study for Combining IWW and PWW.: The study was carried out in 1994 by an Austrian
consulting firmn. It recommended that the management of IWW and PWW be combined to achieve benefits
that would include an estimated 10 percent reduction in operating costs. The Borrowers decided not to take
any action on the recommendation until the Butoniga water supply system was completed and in operation.
Study of IWW and PWW Tariff Structures: The study was completed in 1994 by a Croatian consultant in
accordance with the terrns of reference in the SAR. The main objective of the study was to review the
Borrowers' tariff structures to deterrnine if changes were needed that would result in greater fairness among
consumner groups and improved revenue generation. The study recommended that no changes were required
in the tariff structures.
Sewerage Master Plan for Central Istria: A study for protection of groundwater resources in Central
Istria is being carried out. Phase One deals with issues related to small settlements in water protection
areas. Based on the study findings, feasibility studies and preliminary designs have been prepared for 172
settlements in 22 communities and 4 towns in the county of Istria. It covers about 37,700 inhabitants.
Planned investment is estimated at about HRK 880 million (US$100 million equivalent). A study has also
been carried out in regard to sewage disposal in the Pazin area.
Equipment and Instrumentation:  The items were procured through local funding as the Borrowers
decided to restrict the use of the Bank loan to financing of major investments.
Training Courses and Materials: The Borrowers elected not to use Bank loan financing for this purpose.
Staffs of the three agencies attended conferences and seminars relevant for the operation of water supply
systems. Both IWW and PWW have training programs in place and carry out on-the-job training.
Sewerage Components
Although an integral part of the project as originally conceived, the sewerage components were to be
financed from local funds and Bank financing was not allocated for this purpose. Information received by
the Borrowers from the participating communities indicates that most of the planned investments were
completed. Details are given in Annex 11.
- 26 -



Additional Annex 9. Key Indicators of Project Implementation
Contract (Project Component)     Estimated Date of Completion    Actual Date of Completion
Water Treatment Plant (A2)       1993 - First Half               Not completed yet,
Projected completion - 2002
Water Treatment Plant            1991 - First Half               Not completed yet,
Equipment (A2)                                                   Projected completion - 2002
Butoniga-Beram TWT (B 1)         1989 - First Half               1989 - First Half
Beram-Kanfanar TWT (132)         1990 - Second Half              1991 - First Half
Beram-Pazin TWT & PS (132)       1990 - Second Half              1992 - First Half
Kanfanar-Rovinj TWT (B2)         1990 - Second Half              1991 - Second Half
Pula TM (132)                    1991 - First Half               1991 - First Half
Pipe (B 1,2)                     1987 - Second Half              1988 - Second Half
Valves, Fittings & Accessories   1990 - First Half               Included in other parts of the
Project
Pula TM PVF & A (132)            1990 - Second Half             Included in other parts of the
Project
Distribution Storage (133)       1992 - Second Half              Not completed yet,
Projected completion - 2002
Distribution Storage Equipment   1990 - Second Half              Not completed yet,
(B3)                                                             Projected completion - 2002
Telemetering & Controls          1991 - Second Half              Not completed yet,
Projected completion - 2002
TA for Unaccounted-for-Water (CI)  1991 - First Half             Not utilized
Management Study (C2)            1992 - Second Half              1995 - Second Half
(Loan Agr. Sect.5.03)
Tariff Study (C 3)               1992 - Second Half              1994 - First Half
(Loan Agr. Sect.5.03)
Sewerage Master Plan (C4)        1990 - Second Half              1999 - First Half
0 & M Equipment (CS)             1993 - First Half               1999 - First Half
Sewerage Works (D I -D6)         1994 - First Half               70% completed; other items
postponed (see Annex 10)
Reference: Appraisal Report, page 88, Annex 7.4 (Project Implementation Schedule).
- 27 -



Additional Annex 10. Key Indicators of Project Operation
Appraisal Estimates                Actual/Current Estimates
Key Indicator        Units       1989   1992    1995   1999    2000   1989   1992   1995   1999   2000
Project Area
Domestic tourists      000 persons                                             852    173    208    158    146
Foreign tourists       000 persons                                            1412    716    685   1419   1934
Total                 000 persons                                            2264    889    893   1577   2080
Dom. tourist nights    000 nights                                             6123    983   1020    736    643
For. tourist nights    000 nights                                            13694   5170   5197   9892  13642
Total                               21810  23832  26043    n.a.    n.a. 19817   6153   6217  10628  14285
Istria WW
Population             number        92250  96470  100880    n.a. 108670  90890  93300    n.a.   n.a.    n.a
Population served      number        85300  90550   95620    n.a. 103450    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
% of population served    %              93     94      95    n.a.      95    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.
Water produced         million m3     16.94   19.17   21.15    n.a.   24.79  14.96  13.32    13.9  13.96  15.37
Water sold             million m3     13.38   15.15   16.71    n.a.   19.58  11.57   9.67    9.22   9.45  10.45
--domestic                           6.43    6.83    7.21    n.a.    7.81   3.96   4.11    4.58   4.87   5.31
-- industrial...                     1.54    1.96    2.08    n.a.    2.25   3.27   2.94    2.49   2.07   2.20
-- hotels & tourism                  5.41    6.35    7.42    n.a.    9.53   4.35   2.62    2.15   2.51   2.94
Unaccounted for water    million m3    3.56    4.02    4.44    n.a.    5.21   3.39   3.65    4.68   4.51   4.92
UFW as % of production   %               21     21      21    n.a.      21      23     27      34     32     32
Number of connections    number      27380  29240  31100    n.a.  34130  28500  30860  34210  36990  38450
Average rev. per m3 sold  US$/m3       0.83    0.62    0.62    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   0.86   1.11    n.a.
Net income/Revenues    %               56.7   36.1      5.1    n.a.    n.a.    4.0   n.a.  -12.7    0.1   n.a.
Operating ratio        ratio           0.38    0.56    0.77    n.a.    n.a.   0.85    n.e.   1.11   0.87    n.a.
Pula WW
Population             number        84900  88800  92900    n.a. 100000  82210  85250    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.
Population served      number        79900  84300   88700    n.a.  95300    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.
% of population served    %              94     95       95    n.a.      95    n.a.   n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.
Water produced         million m3     17.01   17.71   18.67    n.a.   20.57  15.15  13.09   13.29  12.58  11.62
Water sold             million m3     12.08   13.10   14.00    n.a.   14.43  10.78   9.69    9.13   8.16   7.91
-- domestic                           6.74    7.30    7.71    n.a.    8.29   4.44   4.59   4.46   4.39   4.63
-- industrial                        4.03    4.26    4.50    n.a.    4.84   4.98   3.79    3.30   2.73   2.27
hotels & tourism                    1.31    1.54    1.80    n.a.    2.31   1.36   1.31    1.37   1.04   1.01
Unaccounted for water    million m3    4.93    4.61    4.67    n.a.    6.14   4.37   3.40   4.16   4.42   3.71
UFW as % of production   %               29     26      25    n.a.      30      29     26      31     35     32
Number of connections    number      18040  19480  20520    n.a.  22090  18000  20850  21990  26880  28050
Average rev. per m3 sold  US$/m3       0.55    0.51    0.49    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   0.69   0.80    n.a.
Net income/Revenues    %               48.5   43.0      4.7    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.    0.5   -2.7   n.a.
Operating ratio        ratio           0.47    0.53    0.80    n.a.    n.a.   n.a.   n.a.   1.08   1.08    n.a.
** According to IWW, the UFW volume was 4.154 rmn3 after transfers to the Rizana and Pula Water Works.
*  Differences in classification between appraisal and ICR -- not comparable.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 11. Sewerage Investments under the Project
PLANNED PROJECTS OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM ON THE AREA OF EX COMMUNITY BUJE
Project                             Completed            Total investment
No.                   description                          Yes            No        value In USD
(time of realisation)  (reason)
1.   Interceptor "Kravlji rt' - secondary treatment plant  1990                        1,105,859.00
2.          Pumping station and interceptor               1990                           172,057.00
for the old town of Umag
3.            South Interceptor with tunnel               1990                           196,796.00
in Buje
4.            Secondary treatment plant for                               No      not enough financ.
Novigrad                                                       sources
not enough financ.
5.            Interceptor Dajla - Novigrad                                No          sources
6.             Sewerage Komunela Umag                     1990                            20,592.00
7.             Sewerage Brotoloni Umag                   1990                           209,623.00
8.              Sewerage Punta Umag                       1990                           407,515.00
9.              Sewerage Sipro - Murine                   1990                            15,860.00
10.           Plant signal station Savudrija              1990                           686,078.00
11.               3rd phase Novigrad                      1990                           204,878.00
sewerage of the old town
12.                Biologic plant Buje                    1990                          1,013,524.00
13.             Sewerage Buje - K 1,2,3 -                 1990                           196,825.00
Feroplast
14.             Sewerage Punta Umag                       1991                           149,904.00
2nd phase
15.            Sewerage Komunela Umag                     1995                            20,251.00
street A. Medica
16.         Sewerage Umag Sipro-Folijaplast               1996                            82,023.00
17.              Sewerage Moefa Umag                      1997                            73,513.00
18.           Sewerage Stella Maris Umag                  1997                           420,830.00
19.          Sewerage K 10 Zambratija Umag                1998                            21,452.00
20.                Sewerage Brtonigla                     1998                            81,817.00
21.           Sewerage Savudrija - Borozija               1998                           197,614.00
22.         Sewerage signal station Savudrija             1998                             25,151.00
(secondary connection)
23.             Sewerage Finida - Umag                    1998                           308,555.00
24.               Sewerage Zambratija                     2000                           637,618.72
Total                                                          5,840,820.72
Source: Public Utility Company "6 maj" Umag
- 29 -



PLANNED PROJECTS OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM ON THE AREA OF EX COMMUNITY POREC
Psjed                        ConvpId                    Tda k        iestmt    Todawhlie_t
Na                                            Yes              ND          (akekhUSD)           (vAe in lm)
(time of msaion) (ma)
1.   IrteporAC-lUka-                        1989                              19Q49131        3,341,2872(OO
2    Seaeae 'Fuh                             1990                              84,257.36         1,000,000.00
(031990)
a    Cofi    cfsxinday                       1997                             338,M8aS7          Z136,000.00
bedmer plart'hebe rr'                                                                         (121997)
4.  C           a dcono *Npo                 199                              1X@me              12XMMO
AC 'Wa" -AC 'Pr*'                                                                             (41990)
5.   Cornsunjn ds efa age slBrn              2000                            1,146,12426         9X2000.00
Ta- Vdxta
6.   Cmostn       acedamrtpla               2000                              4045,3&            3,255,000.00
Petb
TOW d2al                                                                       76
Source: Public Utility Company "Usluga" Porec
- 30 -



PLANNED PROJECTS OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM ON THE AREA OF EX COMMUNITY ROVINJ
Project                               Completed                Total         Total
No.                                                           Yes             No       Investment    Investment
(time of reallsation)  (reason)   value in kn    value In USD
1.                   Sewerage system                         2000                     2,636,635.00    327,685.03
'Lamanova 11 - Potkova"
2.       Sewerage system Lamanova II - Laccosencio           2000                       316,541.92     39,340.31
3.                 Pumping station "Cuvi"                    1996                       872,114.00    160,238.49
4.               Pumping station 'Valbruna'                  1995                        95,566.62      18,953.36
5.               Pumping station 'Bolnica"                   1995                        73,680.88      14,612.84
6.              Sewerage system 'Centener'                   1996                       278,061.96     51,089.91
7.      Sewerage system- Zminjska-Balska-Motovunska          1996                       246,781.42     45,342.56
8.                 Pumping station KINO                      1998                     1,345,156.60    203,833.22
9.             Sewerage system street Medulin                1998                      1,293,868.72   196,061.51
10.           Waterside interceptor Squero - Kino             1998                     8,569,795.49   1,298,591.59
11.             Municipal waterside interceptor               1998                    14,872,333.82   2,253,622.93
Kino - Valdibora
12.               Secondary treatment plant                   1998                     1,404,616.80    212,843.30
13.     Municipal waterside interceptor Volta - Veliki Molo   1998                     6,637,747.93   1,005,826.06
14.                  Sewerage system                          1998                     1,098,984.95    166,530.53
Valbruna - Valpolisoi
15.             Sewerage system Valbruna -                    1998                      368,516.55      55,841.76
Motovunska
16.   Rain water drain system in the street Nova - Dayeggia   1998                      118,209.46      17,912.42
17.              Sewerage system for street                   1999                      402,922.50      54,901.64
Zorzetti
18.             Sewerage system Valbruna II                   1996                      430,922.59      79,175.87
South
Total                                                      41,062,457.21    6,202,403.36
Source: Komunalni servis d.o.o. Rovinj
- 31 -



PLANNED PROJECTS OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM ON THE AREA OF EX COMMUNITY BUZET
Completed                  Total investment
No.               Project                       Yes               No                value in USD
(time of realisation)   (reason)
1     Sewerage system of Buzet               1989-2000 g.                          298,780.00
Source: Public Utility Company "Park" Buzet
- 32 -



PLANNED PROJECTS OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM ON THE AREA OF EX COMMUNITY PAZIN
Pltec                             Carpld                Toda hidwme  t          Nab
No.                                              Yes               No         VanUSD
(frrnofiallsd)       (meson)
1.       S a sernt ffie         i                            No(rt augh
2       Inblbrsupy*waswbqrb                   1995-1996                           190,688.c0
tes~eb $1Maindes"br
a            SaebEr lar1t                                         Nb               ss65.00 aa        reed
4.          Parrmido, dsseAage                  194                               231,33592           365000.00
n tie &eetM MlIska                                                                            am
S          RP   Eisf     cdseeage             15-1996                             2D7,947.00
i tiesb s 25. R.gi
6.   Ca-XRu*o cliaeprrin toe sieeVrft*       1995-196                             33,C1.00
7.            Se        Pazh    ee              1097                               15,511.00
a             Bitefprswawe                    1991-193                             88,824.88          15Q79&00
9.             Seaage8 t                        1997                              170W74Z7           1,050,00D.00
Totl                                                          997,2.68
Source: Town Pazin
- 33 -



PLANNED PROJECTS OF SEWERAGE SYSTEM ON THE AREA OF EX COMMUNITY PULA (in US$)
No.                          Project                                 Total
Description                          1989-2000
1.  Facilities - catchment area Pula
- new Facilities                                           5,157,235
2.  Facilities - catchment area Pula
- reconstruction                                              11,900
3.  Facilities - catchment area
Peroj-Fazana-Vodnjan-Galizana                              3,808,154
4.  Facilities - catchment area Banjole                            76,168
5.  Facilities - others                                            30,132
6.  Equipment - catchment area Pula
- new Facilities                                              24,447
7.  Equipment - catchment area
Peroj - Fazana - Vodnjan                                      56,796
8.  Equipment Peroj - new Facilities                                8,044
9.  Equipment Banjole - Pomer - new Facilities                      9,677
10. Studies and projects - catchment area
Banjole - Pomer - new Facilities                               9,893
11. Studies and projects - catchment area
Medulin - Liznjan                                             19,005
12. Studies and projects - sewerage Premantura                    506,915
ITOTAL I                                                    9,718,366
13. PROJECT EKO PULA
Construction of the interceptor - project documents           983,943
Construction of the interceptor - interest during construction,
commitment fee...                                            262,692
Construction of the interceptor - legal and physical
possession of the site                                       280,523
Construction of the interceptor - civil works                 424,362
Construction of the interceptor - supervision, other services...  6,456
Construction of the interceptor - procurement of materials      8,471
Construction of the interceptor - procurement of equipment      1,014
TOTAL II                                                    1,967,461
TOTAL (1+11)                                               11,685,827
Sewerage system length in meters                               45,306
Source: Pula Herculanea d.o.o.
- 34 -



Additional Annex 12. Borrower's Contribution (Operational Plans)
PULA WATER WORKS (PWW)
Operational Plan for the Period 2001-2015
Statement of Objectives
The main objectives for the period from 2001 to 2015 are the following:
I.  Provide for efficient and safe water supply for the area being supplied by the Vodovod Pula
d.o.o.
2.  Provide for sufficient quantity of potable water
3.  Maintain and improve quality of potable water
4.  Maintain and reduce the level of unaccounted-for-water
5.  Protect the existing water sources
6.  Increase service efficiency
7.  Continue with keeping sufficient quantities of water supply
8.  Continue with business operations improvement
9.  Reduce operating costs
10. Continue with modernization of water supply system
Investment Program
* the Project objectives co-financed by Loan of the World Bank have included also increase of water
supply capacity to 1000 I/s out of which 430 U/s refer to Vodovod Pula d.o.o.
* reconstruction and modernization of technological units of the plant Rakonek
*   construction of the central water treatment plant with treated and raw water pipelines in length of
11 Jn
* reconstruction of old and worn-out water works networks and water works
connections
* construction of new storage tanks with capacity of 30000 m3
* reconstruction of pump station Vidikovac
* reconstruction of the main distribution pipeline Rovinj-Pula 27.8 km
* complete replacement of water-gauges with better class of water-gauges
*   construction of the dispatch centre, establishment of modem supervision and
water supply system control
* monitoring and elimination of unaccounted for water in the area of Pula water
works
* to modernize supervision of twenty big consumers in future dispatch centre
*   construction of new water works network
* to make cadastre of water works network
* to provide business premises (workshop, storage, garage, park place and other place)
- 35 -



Operational Improvement Program
Unaccounted-for-Water
The Vodovod Pula d.o.o. Project has achieved significant progress referring to unaccounted for water.
The unaccounted for water had amounted to 4.6 million m3 /year in the past and in the period from
1996 to 2000 it amounted to 4.2 millions m3/year. The Vodovod Pula onsiders 3.2 million m3/year as
a realistic and feasible limit. Taking into consideration the present circumstances, any further reduction
of unaccounted for water would lead to very high increase of the costs.
The following is of the most importance to maintain and reduce the level of unaccounted for water:
1. To enlarge the telemetric system on the water-supply network, to increase monitoring of existing
control area and new control area for the new water-supply network.
2. Besides the existing "Framework Plan for Maintenance of Water-supply Network Activities"
connected with the Agreement with the World Bank, a detailed maintenance plan for water-supply
network will be developed in the forthcoming period.
3. To improve efficiency of water meter reading.
4. Continue with replacement of water meters and old worn-out network.
Financial Management
Pursuant to the valid legal regulations, the Town of Pula, Municipalities Vodnjan, Liznjan, Medulin,
Marcana, Barban and Svetvicenat have authorized the Management, Assembly and supervising Board
to decide on each important question. All relevant suggestions made by the Management of the
Vodovod Pula to the Assembly and Supervising Board will be supported by appropriate analysis of
economic effects and financial results or consequences.
Commercial Operations
Keeping the present organisation would cause positive effects.
Replacement and Renewal Program
The systematic replacement of the old water-supply network must go on. According to the analysis of
unaccounted for water, the renewal program reflects priorities in this area for each year. The
replacement and renewal target is about 7 km of the water-supply network length per year.
Human Resources
There is no increase in employment foreseen at the Vodovod Pula in the future. However, the target is
to improve the professional structure of employees specially high-educated staff, i.e., especially within
occupations referring to technology for water purification and water quality, cadastre, electronics and
computerization.
- 36 -



Monitoring Indicators for Measuring Achievements
Indicator             2000                   Target 2015
Max. production requirements per
day (peak)                        570 V/sec              900 V/sec
Pumped water                       11.7 million m3       15.2 million m3
Delivered water                    8 million m3          12 million m3
Unaccounted for Water              3.7 million m3        3.2 million m3
Annual pipeline replacement        5 km                  7 km
Annual water meter replacement     5500 pieces           8000 pieces
Annual replacement for service
connection                         50 pieces             100 pieces
Annual maintenance and funds
for replacement                   3 million HRK          4 million HRK
Employees per 1000 connections     8                     6
Collection percentage              55%                   84%
- 37 -



ISTRIA WATER WORKS (IWW)
Operational Plan for the Period 2001-2015
Statement of Objectives
The main objectives for the period from 2001 to 2015 are as follows:
I . To ensure an efficient and safe water supply for the area being supplied by IWW
2.  To ensure sufficient quantities of drinking water
3.  To maintain and improve good quality of drinking water
4.  To maintain and improve the level of unaccounted for water supply (UFW)
5.  To protect existing water sources
6.  To increase efficiency of the services
7.  To continue rationalization of operation
8.  To reduce costs of operation
9. To continue modernization of the water supply system
Investment Program
The targets in the Project, cofinanced with the World Bank loan, have included an increase of the available
water supply for 570 I/s. Besides this Project, the long-term investment program of IWW consists of the
following main projects:
*  construction of the reservoir Sv. Ivan with capacity of 4,000 m3
*  construction of the reservoir Sv. Ivan with capacity of 10,000 m3
*   construction of the water treatment plant Bulal
*  modernization of the water treatment plant
* modernization and automation of pumping stations
*  construction of the sludge treatment facilities on springs Sv. Ivan and Gradole
*  connection of springs Sv. Ivan, Gradole and Bulaz (35 kIn)
*  construction of the distribution network according to the program "Water for each household" (280 km)
*  introduction of GIS of IWW
Operational Improvement Program
Unaccounted for water
Water production in 2000 amounted to 19,426,824 m3 while water sold in the area of IWW amounted to
10,448,352 m3. It has been delivered to Rizana Water Works the quantity of 1,019,270 m3 and to Pula Water
Works 3,804,704 m3 of drinking water. It means that in 2000, the UFW amounted to 4,154,498 m3, i.e.,
28.45 percent.
In 1999, the UFW amounted to 4,508,524 m3 or 32.3 percent. In comparison with 1999, the UFW in 2000, is
lower for 354,026 m3 or 3.85 percent. It has to be emphasized that since 1994, more than 300 km of the new
distribution network has been built and that water consumption has been reduced for about 15 percent
comparing with the pre-war consumption (1991).
- 38 -



The UFW level is still high and it has to be systematically reduced. These activities are already in course in the
most critical parts of the system. To reduce the level of UFW, the following is of the highest importance:
1.    To install electro-magnetic flow-meters in all important points of the system, instead of the existing
mechanical flow-meters or non-existing flow-meters
2.    Further construction and connection of the distant control and management
3.    To carry out reconstruction of the old parts of the water supply network and plants
4.    To continue replacement of the meters and to improve efficiency of meter-reading.
Financial Management
Financial management must be carried out carefully as it was the case until now. According to Croatian
legislation, the communes and towns (19 + 7 owners) have granted the Assembly and Supervisory Board with
powers to decide on any important matter. IWW as a public utility is by the law defined as a commnercial
company, so the economic and financial aspects are essential. All relevant proposals, given from Istria Water
Works management to the Assembly and Supervising Board will be supported with corresponding analyses on
the economic effects and financial results or consequences.
Commercial Operations
In the future, the owners of the IWW will decide if the existing commercial operations (engineering and project
design, installation works) will remain within the IWW organization. There are no plans of the enlargement of
such operations.
Replacement and Renewal Program
Systematical replacement of old networks must be continued. On the basis of UFW analyses each year the
renewal program reflects the priorities in this field. The target for replacement and renewals should be about
two percent of the network length annually, i.e., about 35 km per year.
Human resources
In the future, in Istria Water Works, an employment increase is not programmed. However, the target is to
improve the professional structure of the employees, especially high - educated staff-like professionals in the
field of water treatment technology and water quality, cadastre, electronics and computerization.
- 39 -



Monitoring Indicators for Measuring Achievements
Indicator                            Current Value        Target Achievement 2015
Max. production requirements
per day (peak)                       1,235 I/s            2,000 l/s
Pumped water                         19,426,824 m3        25,000,000 m3
Delivered water                      15,272,326 m3        21,500,000 m3
Unaccounted for water                4,154,498 m3/year    3,500,000 m3 /year
Annual pipe replacement              2 km                 35 km
Annual meter replacement             7,000 pieces         10,000 pieces
Annual service connection
replacement                          300                  1,000
Annual maintenance and
replacement budget                   5 million HRK        20 million HRK
Employees per 1,000 connections      8                    6
Collection Ratio                     80%                  100%
- 40 -



Additional Annex 13. Financial Statements (IWW and PWW)
Istarski Vodovod, Buzet (IWW)
(in 000 HRK)
1995      1996       1997      1998      1999
Income Statements
Sales                                           41555      54048     61043      71800     74751
Cost of sales                                   34179      42084     43957      52913     49159
Gross profit                                    7376      11964     17086      18887     25592
Selling, administrative and general expenses    12107      12882     14287      16295     16196
Operating income                                 -4731      -918      2799       2592      9396
Other revenues                                   1924       5454      5749       5189      4401
Other expenses                                   2456       4399      9497      11175     13706
Net other revenues                              -532       1055      -3748     -5986     -9305
Current year profit                             -5263        137       -949     -3394        91
Balance Sheets
Trade receivables                               22147      20473     20453      24282     31180
Inventories                                      3238       4226      6767       6814      6746
Other current assets                             2549       3721     26369      24264     10184
Current assets                                 27934      28420     53589      55360     48110
Gross fixed assets                             691000    708019    737406    762435    789522
Less: Accumulated depreciation                 294282    308831    324200    343058    356636
Net fixed assets                              396718    399188    413206    419377    432886
Other assets                                     4622       4214     19602      10708      9990
Total assets                                  429274    431822    486397    485445    490986
Trade payables                                  13860       3685     11061       7528     10819
Other current liabilities                       23517      29686     22054      34042     37006
Current liabilities                            37377      33371     33115      41570     47825
Medium and long-term debt                        3518       7814     61861      52594     56487
Capital and retained earnings                  388379    390637    391421    391281    386674
Total liabilities                             429274    431822    486397    485445    490986
Financial Ratios
Operating ratio                                   1.11      1.02       0.95      0.96       0.87
Net income/revenues (%)                          -12.7       0.3       -1.6      -4.7        0.1
Receivables/Sales (months)                         6.4       4.5        4.0       4.1        5.0
Current ratio                                     0.75      0.85       1.62      1.33       1.01
Debt to Debt + Equity Ratio(%)                     0.9       2.0       13.6      11.8       12.7
-41 -



Pula Vodovod - (PWW)
(In 000 HRK)
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999
Income Statements
Sales                                           32917      37266     40261      48144     46203
Cost of sales                                   30190      31275     41679      46002     47581
Gross profit                                    2727       5991      -1418      2142      -1378
Selling, administrative and general expenses     5229       6315      2586       6874      2416
Operating income                                 -2502      -324      -4004     -4732      -3794
Other revenues                                   6119       5057     15957       4763      2567
Other expenses                                    1211      1929     12646          0          0
Net other revenues                              4908       3128      3311       4763      2567
Taxes and contributions                          2247       2553
Current year profit                               159        251       -693        31      -1227
Balance Sheets
Trade receivables                               50942      71249     57858      44456     60218
Inventories                                      3603       4201      4310       4856      5828
Other current assets                             4727       4022      4422       5962      4704
Current assets                                 59272      79472     66590      55274     70750
Gross fixed assets                             396150    407020    435732    443661    460879
Less: Accumulated depreciation                 246911    259829    285679    301794    317177
Net fixed assets                              149239    147191    150053    141867    143702
Other assets                                     3390       3403     14651      41839     41728
Total assets                                  211901    230066    231294    238980    256180
Trade payables                                   4364       8189      7103       4651     13403
Other current liabilities                       41480      55827     58838      68940     77225
Current liabilities                            45844      64016     65941      73591     90628
Medium and long-term debt                         841        682       678        683      2073
Capital and retained earnings                  165216    165368    164675    164706    163479
Total liabilities                             211901    230066    231294    238980    256180
Financial Ratios
Operating ratio                                   1.08      1.01       1.10       1.10      1.08
Net income/revenues (%)                            0.5       0.7       -1.7       0.1       -2.7
Receivables/Sales (months)                        18.6      22.9       17.2      11.1       15.6
Current ratio                                     1.29       1.24      1.01      0.75       0.78
Debt to Debt + Equity Ratio (%)                    0.5       0.4        0.4       0.4        1.3
-42 -



