Document of
The World Bank  FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repo"t No. P-2918-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS
AND
FERROCARRILES NACIONALES DE MEXICO
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
November 26, 1980
This document has a restricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In te performnce of
their officidl duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Wrld Bank authorizaton.



Currency Unit - Peso (Mex$)
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating;
it has fluctuated around Mex$22.60 to the US dollar since mid-1977.
On November 20, 1980, the peso traded at 23.02 per US dollar.
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
ASA         -   Airport Authority
(Aeropuertos y Servicios Auxiliares)
BANOBRAS    -   National Bank for Public Works and Services
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
CN          -   A state-owned manufacturer of freight cars
(Constructora Nacional)
CTC         -   Centralized Traffic Control
Hacienda    -   Secretariat of Finance and Credit
LCL         -   Less than Carload
NAFINSA     -   National Development Bank
(Nacional Financiera, S.A.)
NdeM        -   National Mexican Railways
(Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico)
PACIFICO    -   Pacific Railways
(Ferrocarriles del Pacifico)
PEMEX       -   Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
SAHOP       -   Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SCT         -   Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SPP         -   Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:              Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos
(BANOBRAS) as financial agent for the Government and
Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (NdeM)
Guarantor:             United Mexican States
Amount:                US$150 million equivalent
Terms:                 Fifteen years, including three years of grace, and
interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:          The proposed project is NdeM's investment plan for the
1981-1983 period and is aimed at enabling NdeM to meet
the rapid increase in demand for railway transport that
Mexican economic growth is generating. The project also
aims at strengthening NdeM's operating performance and
financial situation through an agreed Plan of Action.
Investments will be made principally in track rehabili-
tation, motive power and rolling stock expansion and
modernization, communications improvements, and technical
assistance. A shortfall in the realization of forecast
traffic and in financial performance are the main risks.
However, in view of Mexico's rapidly growing economy
and the need for transport services as well as the
Government's stated policies on tariffs, these risks
are acceptable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performanee
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






- ii -
Cost of Project: (in millions of US$ equivalent)
Local      Foreign    Total
Track and Structures                            122          57          179
Signaling and Telecommunications                 23           22          45
Locomotives and Rolling Stock                   443          351         794
Engineering and Supervision                      34            1          35
Consulting Services                               -            2           2
Subtotal                                   622         433       1,055
Contingencies
-  Physical                                     9           5           14
-  Price                                      360          98         458
99          536 I/   1_,527
Sources of Financing: (in millions of US$ equivalent)
Local      Foreign    Total
IBRD                                              -         150          150
EXIMBANK USA                                      -           94          94
NAFINSA                                         682         247          929
BANOBRAS                                        268           45         313
Government                                       41            -          41
991         536       1,527
Disbursements:
(US$ millions)
IBRD Fiscal Year       1981   1982   1983   1984
Annual                  14      52     55      29
Cumulative              14      66    121    150
Economic Rate
of Return:            22 percent.
Staff Appraisal
Report:               3078b-ME of November 20, 1980.
1/   Excluding import taxes.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
BANCO NACIONAL DE OBRAS Y SERVICIOS PUBLICOS AND
FERROCARRILES NACIONALES DE MEXICO WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR A FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos (BANOBRAS) as financial
agent for the Government and Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico (NdeM) with
the guarantee of United Mexican States for the equivalent of US$150 million
to help finance a Fourth Railway Project. The loan would bear interest at
9.25 percent per annum and would have a repayment period of 15 years, includ-
ing 3 years of grace.
PART I: THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
*        standards for many Mexicans.  However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was, therefore, little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as they received only limited benefits from infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of
almost 3.5 percent per year by the mid-1970s, made social equity difficult
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Second Medium Cities Water Supply Project, No. P-2883-ME of October 15,
1980.



- 2 -
to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained economic growth was not sufficient to
absorb the rapidly growing labor force in productive employment)and by the
1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was either relatively unproductive
and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
5.        During the mid-1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to
2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954 and let the
peso float; since then it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Administration inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness
and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 29 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to US$1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both the resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends.
The current account deficit increased to US$2.6 billion (6r 2.8 percent of
GDP) in 1978 and further to an estimated US$4.6 billion (under 3.8 percent



of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth is estimated
at about 7 percent in 1978 and 8 percent in 1979 as compared to 2 percent in
1977.
9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent. However, inflation will remain
a problem, essentially as a result of expansionary policies with investments
increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. A shortage
of essential consumer goods and construction materials, aggravated by the
inadequacy of the transport system to handle distribution of domestically
produced goods along with increasing imports, is also likely to contribute to
inflation.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in preventing
inflation from increasing much above 20 percent may come from the wage area.
The agreed increase in the minimum wage for 1980 was about 21 percent and came
after three consecutive years of decline in real wages. As indicated in para.
11 below, in the course of the year inflation has increased more rapidly than
the expected 20 percent. This has caused serious concern among the trade
unions. Bargaining of new national contract is now being based on substan-
tially higher percentage increases than the one implied in the minimum wage
adjustment.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The increase in the consumer price index
in 1980 (January-December) is expected to be only slightly below 30 percent,
resulting in part from the newly introduced value-added tax, and may adversely
affect expectations about inflation. At the same time, the need to expand
public investment in the key infrastructure sectors and to maintain in real
terms the current programs in the energy sectors, leaves relatively little
scope for significant adjustments in the level of public expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the institutional and natural resources necessary to
attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 60 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The stated goal of
the Government is to reach a production level of about 2.7 million bbl/day
in 1981, and to more or less maintain it at a level that will accommodate
exports of 1.1 million bbl/day; by mid-year a production target of 2.3 mil-
lion bbl/day had already been reached. The Mexican Government is unwilling to
exceed this limit for fear of increasingly becoming a classical "oil producing
country" with the economic and social tensions that would ensue. But even
at this production level, the challenge for Mexico is how to mobilize its



- 4 -
resources--its human skills, its institutions, and its experience--to help
resolve its long term development problems.  The most serious of these relate
to poverty, unemployment, inadequate growth of agricultural production in
non-irrigated lands, and urban-regional imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the total)
had incomes of less than one-third the national average. The root causes of
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of non-irrigated agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are princi-
pally employed), and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs.
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias and efforts to stimulate
employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output
should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however,
the still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor
force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young
people in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a
difficult goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its
consideration several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be
short-term palliatives and which would preempt resources which would otherwise
be available for investment in employment-creating activities or for improving
educational or health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however the present
levels of underemployment and unemployment are likely to remain.
16.       A National Employment Plan was published early last year.  It
calls for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
in both urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training. Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities, especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment,
and while the institutional structure to carry out some important programs
already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action
and to make better use of human resources by substantially reducing the level of
hidden and open unemployment.



- 5 -
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown inadequate
growth since the mid-1960s, and, of late, demand has outstripped domestic
supplies of grains. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive new large-
scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity (and income
per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present administration
has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with agriculture in
order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy emphasizes
increased production through a balanced development program. Greater emphasis
is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration, and credit to develop
the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential. Programs to rehabilitate
existing irrigation serving nearly one million ha are underway. Small-scale
irrigation development is being promoted. Construction of new large-scale
irrigation units continues, but with a smaller proportion of budget resources
than in the past. The banking system is being encouraged to provide greater
support to agricultural production and processing programs. These initiatives
should lead to an acceleration of production growth, more equal development
opportunities for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living conditions
of the rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports.
A National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and their implications for employment.
Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas, including
efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods as
well as exports of many different manufactured products. While most of the above
industries are known for their capital intensity, they are expected to promote
secondary industries with considerable employment opportunities. These will be
enterprises producing secondary petrochemicals, finished plastic goods, metal
*        parts and components for capital goods.  Tourism export earnings are also ex-
pected to increase substantially.
20.       The main problems for the Mexican economy in the years to come remain
the reconciliation of a high growth rate with a relative price stability and a
larger participation of the low income groups in the expanding wealth of the
nation. The National Development Plan, published last April, marks the final
step in the planning activities carried out by the present administration and
places in a consistent framework the specific targets indicated in a number of



- 6 -
sectoral plans prepared in the previous two years. In addition to presenting
a macroeconomic picture of the development prospects, the National Development
Plan dwells in great detail on the policies required to achieve the various
economic and social targets. These policies are essentially sound but call for
a major implementation effort on the part of the Administration. Growth
with low inflation would pose difficult challenges of adjusting prices of
public goods and services without undermining the existing consensus of the
country, and improving income distribution would call for policies that
encourage labor intensive technologies in industry and agriculture without
slowing down modernization of the economy.
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1979.
This high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the
early 1980s, not only as a result of rapid increases in petroleum exports but
also because some of the debt contracted on the least favorable terms has
been prepaid. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.9 percent of
public debt service in 1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same
during the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 6.1 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
22.       As of October 31, 1980, Mexico had received 66 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$4,243.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 38 loans totalling US$1,870.4 million were fully disbursed. The Bank
presently holds US$3,582.5 million of which US$1,554.7 million have not yet
been disbursed. Some 43 percent of Bank lending has been for agriculture and
rural development (24 loans for US$1,864.4 million), 17 percent for power (12
loans for US$704.8 million), 16 percent for transportation (13 loans for
US$666.7 million), and 18 percent for industry (10 loans for US$747.5 million);
the remaining 6 percent has been for water supply (US$130 million), tourism
(US$114 million), and urban development (US$16.5 million) projects. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of October 31, 1980 and notes on
the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget financing has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. The Government and Bank officials have



- 7 -
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention in
Mexico has been focused on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on
most of the Bank-assisted projects and plans have been formulated to strengthen
execution of those projects where improvement is still needed. The effective-
ness of these actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91
million was disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 disbursements totalled US$233 million
and in FY80 disbursements further increased to US$404 million, or 38 percent
of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year.
IFC Operations
24.       As of October 31, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
22 companies in Mexico for a total of US$535.2 million, of which US$393.8
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
25.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; (iii) help
reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances; and (iv) help clear bottlenecks
preventing more rapid growth. The Bank is preferentially supporting projects
of high social priority that help the rural or urban poor, projects that
promote higher levels of employment and production and those that help to
decentralize economic activity. Also, through the proposed railway project
and a possible project to train technical personnel for industry, the Bank
would assist to alleviate some of the key constraints to the growth process
in the country.
26.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small
farmers through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural
development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under cultivation;
third, to complement infrastructure investments with general support services
including agricultural extension and marketing programs and provision of
medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities in rural
areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has made
thirteen loans in FY74-80 totalling US$1,497 million for irrigation, rural
development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock credit programs.
Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed agriculture,
rural development, and support services are in preparation; a rainfed agri-
cultural development project and an integrated rural development project are
expected to be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in the
coming months.



- 8 -
27.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas, and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico (Lazaro Cardenas) and the city
in which it is located is developing into a new growth pole. The fertilizer
sector has been strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned
fertilizer company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote
the development of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support
an industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors
in FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid
expansion. A second small and medium scale industries project was approved by
the Executive Directors in June 1980. The Executive Directors also approved
in May 1980 a project for the mining sector, which up to now has received
insufficient resources from the financial system. Two capital goods industry
projects are under discussion for possible Bank support; there aim would be to
assist the transfer of high technology to Mexico so that employment might be
increased in the engineering subsector, strengthening the base for manufac-
turing industry.
28.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing.  The Airports
Development Project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the Third Railway Project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and Medium Cities (FY76) Water Supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A Highway Sector Project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79. A loan for a Medium-Size Cities Water Supply Project was
approved by the Executive Directors in November 1980.
29.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
enacted a law of human settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activi-
ties in the larger metropolitan areas.  The Government has adopted a National
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet
the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key
regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West
Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project
for oil-producing southeastern Mexico is being negotiated.
30.       The Government has under its consideration a program to construct
three industrial ports with a view to promoting economic development away from
the central highlands and along the Pacific Coast (at Lazaro Cardenas) and the
Gulf of Mexico (at Altamira and Ostiones).  The Bank is examining the possi-
bilities of providing technical assistance through a project preparation



- 9 -
loan and would be assisting in preparation of an urban development project at
Altamira. The Economic Development Institute (EDI) is assisting CECADE (a
similar institute under the Ministry of Programming and Budgeting) in training
Government staff in several aspects of project preparation, monitoring and
evaluation. A course on urban and regional development has recently been
concluded and several for agriculture, rural development, and agro-industries
are programmed for the near-term.
31.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the
Bank have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and
the Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure, the Integrated Program for Rural Development
(PIDER), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale indus-
tries, and hotel development. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural develo-
merit project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
32.       Transport has played an important role in the economic development
of Mexico. The expansion and evolution of Mexico's transport system has been
supported over the years by adequate public investments in infrastructure in
all modes, and strong, privately financed, bus, truck and aviation industries
provide adequate services. This combination produced a transport system
which was generally satisfactory until the mid-1970s, with good modal balance
and sufficient capacity to serve demand. The system then only required
selective expansion and modernization to meet the needs of a growing economy
and support Mexico's strategy of spatial decentralization of population and
economic activity. However, reductions in public sector investments since
1975, coupled with a surge in economic growth since 1978 and rapidly increasing
demand for transport services, have led to serious bottlenecks in the railway
system, which in turn have affected some ports and the highway system.
33.       Mexico relies on extensive road and rail networks for its transport-
ation needs. Pipelines and coastal shipping are important but specialized,
while aviation, the most dynamic mode in terms of growth, is relatively small
and highly specialized. In 1978, road transport carried about 41 percent of
all cargo traffic in the country, while the railways carried about 21 percent.
The remaining traffic, mostly of petroleum products, was moved by pipelines
(23 percent) and coastal shipping (15 percent). Roads carried 94 percent of
all passenger traffic, while aviation and the railways carried about 3 percent
each.



- 10 -
34.       Overall, traffic grew at about 10 percent annually between 1970 and
1978.  Increases were experienced by all modes, especially since the economy
began to recover from the 1976-1977 recession.  The implications for the trans-
port sector of rapid and sustained economic growth in the future are of high
rates of increase in demand for land transport and port facilities.  This
demand would affect, in particular, the railways, which carry a high propor-
tion of the heavy, long-haul traffic. In order to be able to meet demand
through the 1980s, judicious investments to expand rail carrying capacity are
required. The financing of such an investment program is the main objective
of this project.
Highways and Road Transport
35.       The road network was expanded rapidly in the last 30 years, from
22,500 km in 1950 to 200,000 km in 1978 (of which 62,000 km are paved). The
highway network covers most populated areas of the country adequately and the
main highway network can be considered almost complete. In recent years,
increased emphasis has been given to the construction of low standard roads in
lightly populated areas. This emphasis, coupled with a relative decline of
budgetary allocations for highways, and a steady increase in traffic, has
resulted in localized capacity constraints. Furthermore, there is a growing
need to rehabilitate and improve existing roads.
36.       The vehicle fleet grew at 12.5 percent annually between 1968 and
1978. The overall level of motorization is about one vehicle per 16 inhab-
itants, with one passenger car per 25 inhabitants. Trucking services are sup-
plied by a fleet of 1.1 million vehicles and there are about 60,000 registered
buses. The current trend is to gradually tighten the enforcement of government
road transport regulations with the objectives of improving the reliability
and geographic distribution of services and improving driver working conditions.
The supply of trucking services since the upsurge of economic activity in 1978
has been adequate and tariffs have remained at reasonable levels; however,
there are indications that if urgent steps are not taken to relieve bottlenecks
in the railway system, the trucking industry would not be able to manage the
overspill.
Railways
37.       The Mexican railways earry about one third of total inter-urban
traffic, mainly bulk, long-haul consignments of foodgrains, minerals,
fertilizers, petroleum products and cement.  The length of the railway net-
work has not changed significantly since the early sixties. Ferrocarriles
Nacionales de Mexico (NdeM) is the largest of five separate government-owned
railways.  It has 14,200 km of track, or 70 percent of the total network, and
carries 80 percent of total rail traffic. Ferrocarriles del Pacifico
(Pacifico), the second largest railway, carries about 14 percent of traffic.
The other three railways, to a large extent, feed into the NdeM and Pacifico
systems (see attached Map IBRD 3655R1).



- 11 -
38.       In January 1977, the Government authorized the integration of the
five railway enterprises into a single operating unit, and this is being
gradually accomplished. The first phase, consisting of the consolidation of
the management boards under the NdeM General Manager, has been completed.
The entire process of consolidation, including unification of operating
practices, administration and accounts, is expected to be completed within
the next three to four years. Over the past few years, substantial improve-
ments in NdeM's operations were brought about by the introduction of new
ideas and technologies, and, as a result, the Mexican railway system is one
of the most modern and competently run in Latin America. Steadily increasing
traffic demand provides an incentive for further improvement.
Air Transport
39.       Mexico's extensive area, rugged topography and the considerable
distances separating population and commercial centers, have made air trans-
port an important element in the country's transport system. Domestic
passenger traffic from 1970 to 1978 grew at 17.4 percent annually; over
14 million domestic and international passengers were carried that year.
Freight cargo in domestic air traffic is minimal; air freight rates compare
unfavorably with competing modes and aircraft carrying capacity is limited by
the high altitude of several key airports. Airport infrastructure is, in
general, well developed; there are some 50 airports capable of handling medium
or larger aircraft. The Mexico City airport accounts for about 40 percent of
total commercial passenger traffic and 55 percent of the air cargo. Increased
traffic and the introduction of larger aircraft in domestic routes, have
recently strained facilities at several airports. Runway extensions, new or
larger terminal buildings, navigational and communications equipment and
improved utilities are needed. Some airports are located in heavily populated
areas and would have to be relocated; plans for relocating the Mexico City air-
port are under active consideration.
Ports
40.       Port traffic, if petroleum is excluded, is surprisingly small in
view of the size of Mexico's economy. Much of the foreign trade is with the
US, for which overland routes (railways and roads) are used. However, port
traffic is expected to become more important in the coming years as the
economy grows. Shipping is largely concentrated in domestic coastal traffic,
mainly of petroleum. International trade consists mostly of the export of
minerals, agricultural products and petroleum and the import of capital goods,
grain and food supplies. There are some 30 ports on the long Mexican coast-
lines, of which 12 are international. In all, they handled some 40 million
tons of international traffic in 1978, of which about 55 percent were petroleum
products. Port infrastructure capacity is generally adequate; however, difficul-
ties in handling grain imports have recently been experienced at some ports,
although the problem seems to be that there is insufficient carrying capacity
in the land transport systems servicing ports, rather than in the ports
themselves. Nevertheless, to ensure that the ports sector is able to cope
with grain imports and general traffic increases in the coming years, a study
of port capacity is being prepared. The Government is also considering



- 12 -
investments in ports in the context of regional development plans aimed at
shifting population concentration and economic activity away from the central
plateau to the coastal areas (see para 30).
Pipelines
41.        In 1978, pipelines accounted for more than half of the petroleum
product transport in the country. There are about 5,300 km of crude oil pipe-
lines in operation or under construction, 6,300 km of refined products pipe-
lines and about 9,300 km of gas pipelines in the trunk system. All are owned
and operated by PEMEX, the state oil enterprise. Pipelines connect oil fields
and refineries to export ports and the Central Valley area. The vast network
is designed to serve the main consuming centers (such as Mexico City and
Guadalajara) and, through ongoing expansions, the Yucatan Peninsula and the
Pacific coast. Plans to expand the network by some 6,700 km are currently
under study.
Planning and Coordination
42.        Investment decisions for public transport expenditures are made
within the framework of the overall Government planning and budgeting system
managed by the Secretariat of Programming and Budgeting (SPP). While SPP,
in coordination with the Secretariat of Finance and Credit (Hacienda) approves
investment budgets, other Government secretariats prepare sectoral plans in
cooperation with various federal and state agencies. The Secretariat of
Communications and Transport (SCT) is responsible for the overall planning of
the transport sector, and its leadership is being gradually established in
accordance with the administrative reform of 1976. Its role is to prepare
multi-year plans for investment, which are submitted to SPP with annual budget
requests. Subsectoral plans are in some cases prepared by other agencies.
For example, the Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP)
is responsible for the detailed planning of highways while NdeM prepares
plans for railways.
43.        Early this year, SPP published an economic plan (Plan Global) for
the period 1980-1982. The Plan contains recommendations for transport poli-
cies and development strategies which are to be taken into account in formu-
lating the budget. Transport sector investments are planned to grow at 11.5
percent yearly in real terms during 1980-1982, reflecting the high priority
given to the sector.
44.        SCT plays an important role in establishing and coordinating trans-
port policy, particularly on matters such as tariffs, road user charges,
regulation and intermodal transport coordination. It also reviews and approves
investment programs in the transport sector and carries out some investments
itself (see paras 53 and 55). It is one of the main agencies involved in
establishing prices in the transport sector. Pricing issues present acute
problems both in the railways, where the relatively efficient system requires
heavy subsidies (US$160 million equivalent in 1979), and road transport, where



- 13 -
reconstruction and modernization may have to be postponed because of fund
shortages, while road vehicles benefit from underpriced fuel 1/ and low or no
road user charges.
45.       The pricing issues are difficult and in many cases inherited from
the past; in the case of railways, tariffs were virtually unchanged for 15 years
before 1975 and a large gap between costs and revenues resulted. Such situa-
tions can only be resolved gradually and in the context of the Government's
efforts to reduce inflation. A major policy statement was included in the
Plan Global and was reiterated by President Lopez Portillo during his state of
the union address to Congress in September 1980. Prices and tariffs for goods
and services provided by the public sector would be revised and updated
periodically with the objective of increasing the revenues of public sector
enterprises and of reorienting subsidies toward those social and economic
sectors which are most in need of them, making subsidies more explicit.
Prices and tariffs would be adjusted to: (a) cover direct production costs;
(b) permit the accumulation of savings for the purpose of investment; and
(c) be consistent with economic development and social welfare goals.
Past Bank Participation and Experience
46.        The Bank has provided broad support to the development of transport
in Mexico. Since 1970, seven loans have been made to support investments in
highways, railways, ports and aviation. A number of institutional and policy
objectives have been sought in assisting transport development. For the
sector as a whole, the goal has been to improve transport planning and adminis-
tration. Progress in this respect has been made since the administrative
reform of 1976, which gave SCT overall responsibility for policies and planning.
In highways, the emphasis has been on improving planning and project analysis,
controlling truck overloading and rationalizing road user charges. Planning
and project analysis improved to the point where it was possible to grant a
sector loan (Loan 1671-ME August 1979). Work is beginning on a system to
control overloading of trucks and some improvements have begun in road user
charges. In ports, more efficient operating methods, and a commercial approach
to tariffs and services have been sought. The Bank also recommended central-
izing investment planning in a national port authority. Substantial oper-
ational improvements have been achieved in some ports, but little has been
1/   The retail price for diesel fuel and gasoline (regular) is Mex$ 1/liter
and Mex$ 2.8/liter, or US$0.167 and US$0.468 per U.S. gallon respectively.
"Super" gasoline, which accounts for only 6% of all gasoline sales and
is used mainly by higher price motorcars, retails at Mex$ 7/liter, or
US$1.17 per US gallon (the price has just been increased by 75%).  While
there is no direct diesel fuel tax, the retail prices of regular gasoline
includesa tax of Mex$ 0.70/liter. The equivalent export prices (1980)
for these fuels are estimated at Mex$ 5.20/liter for diesel fuel and
Mex$ 5.80/liter for regular gasoline. Consumption by the transport
sector is estimated at 15.4 billion liters of regular gasoline and 7.9
billion liters of diesel in 1980. These levels of consumption imply
potential revenue foregone by the Government of about Mex$ 79 billion in
1980 (US$3.4 billion). Potential revenue foregone is measured as the
export price less the domestic retail price multiplied by consumption.



- 1-4 -
accomplished so far in rationalizing port tariffs. Instead of a national
port authority, a new Subsecretariat in SCT has been made responsible for
monitoring port operations and controlling investment planning, a clear
improvement over the previous arrangements. In aviation, a basic objective of
the first loan was to install a commercial accounting system in the airport
authority (ASA) for better knowledge of costs and charges. Such a system was
recently installed.
47.       Three Bank-financed projects in the railways sector, one for Pacifico
and two for NdeM, have included important rehabilitation and modernization
works such as track renovation, strengthening of bridges, purchase of motive
power and rolling stock. The first loan (103-ME) of $61 million for the
rehabilitation and modernization of Pacifico was made in 1954 and the works
were completed successfully in the late fifties. The second loan (825-ME) of
$75 million for the rehabilitation of NdeM was made in 1972 and the project
was completed in 1977. The Completion Report for this project concluded that
its main objectives, the rehabilitation of NdeM's operations and the improve-
ment of its organization and management, were largely achieved, although
financial performance was below appraisal targets mainly because of inadequate
tariff increases. The overall economic rate of return of 20 percent was
better than the appraisal estimate of 18 percent. The Third Railway loan
(1232-ME) was made in 1976 for NdeM and the works are now being executed
according to an investment plan which was revised in 1979 in consultation with
the Bank. The project is expected to be completed in 1981 and has included
important modernization works such as the installation of a telecommunications
network, modern yard and train control systems and the introduction of unit
train operations. As in the Second Railway Project, performance in respect of
implementation of important covenants has been good, except in regard to
tariff increases. However, the Mexican Government has in recent years shown
increased awareness of the need for cost-based tariff increases and there have
been improvements in this field (see paras 45 and 60). Improvements in techni-
cal and operational areas continue.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Investment Plan for the Railway Sector
48.       The proposed project is NdeM's Investment Plan for 1981-1983 and is
part of the 1981-1985 investment program for the railway sector.  NdeM's invest-
ments under the project would principally be made in track rehabilitation,
motive power, rolling stock, and technical assistance. Total project invest-
ments are estimated at US$1,527 million equivalent, with foreign exchange
costs of US$536 million. NdeM's Investment Plan is complemented by SCT's
infrastructure investment program, which includes realignments of mainline
rail sections and construction of new lines and yards and which involves
expenditures of about US$1.8 billion equivalent between 1981 and 1985. The
Bank has been asked by the Mexican Government to participate in the financing
of NdeM's Investment Plan for rehabilitation and equipment; SCT's infrastruc-
ture program will be financed entirely by the Government. About 80 percent
of the subprojects in SCT's program have been examined by the Bank and were



- 15 -
found to be technically and economically justified. The rest are under
preparation and will be reviewed as and when ready. There would be regular
consultations on the investment programs between NdeM, SCT and the Bank during
project execution (See Section 3.05 of the Draft Guarantee Agreement).
The Project and Proposed Loan
49.       The proposed project was identified in 1978.  After preparation
missions in 1979 it was appraised in May 1980 and negotiations were carried
out in October and November 1980. The Mexican negotiating team was headed by
Mr. Sanchez Mujica of BANOBRAS and included representatives of SCT, NdeM and
Hacienda. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 3078b-ME, dated November 20, 1980, is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A brief description
of the project may be found in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning
of this report. Supplementary project data are provided in Annex III.
50.       The project combines NdeM's Investment program for 1981-1983 with a
Plan of Action aimed at improving its operating and financial performance.
The objectives of the project are to: (a) increase carrying capacity by con-
tinuing track rehabilitation, improving signaling, and acquiring additional
motive power and rolling stock; (b) continue improving NdeM's operating
efficiency according to targets set forth in an agreed Plan of Action;
(c) reduce NdeM's operating deficits and improve its financial position with
the objective of eventually reaching financial viability; and (d) improve
information systems for the management of NdeM. The major project components
are:
(a) track rehabilitation, using (i) new and heavier rails, sleepers
and ballast on principal traffic routes on about 780 kms, and
(ii) recovered rails, with new sleepers and ballast, on secondary
lines on about 560 km;
(b) track maintenance machinery and equipment;
(c) strengthening and, where necessary, replacement of older
bridges;
(d) lengthening of existing sidings and construction of additional
sidings to make longer trains and more frequent services possible;
(e) installation of a Centralized Traffic Control (CTC) System
on about 960 km of lines;
(f) acquisition of 192 main line diesel locomotives, 50 shunting
locomotives and 9,350 freight cars;
(g) replacement and addition of workshop machinery; and
(h) technical assistance in three main areas: (i) development of
a comprehensive Management Information System; (ii) computerized
line and yard capacity planning; and (iii) improvement of train
and yard operations and freight car and locomotive utilization.



- 16 -
The Plan of Action (see Schedule 5 to the Draft Loan Agreement), specifies
quantitative targets in key operational, technical and financial areas to be
met during 1981-1985 as well as the steps which are to be taken to achieve
them.
51.       The estimated cost of the project is based on prices prevailing in
mid 1980 and exclude import taxes. Costs of local materials and labor are
based on contracts for similar work carried out by NdeM. Physical contingen-
cies have been estimated at 5 percent of work items. Price contingencies for
local costs assume price increases of 23 percent in 1980, 20 percent in 1981,
17 percent in 1982, 15 percent in 1983 and 13 percent in 1984. For foreign
costs, price contingencies have been taken at 10.5 percent for 1980, 9 percent
for 1981, 8 percent for 1982 and 7 percent per year for 1983-84.  The cost of
consulting services has been based on estimated requirements of 222 man-months
at about $9,000/man-month.
52.       The proposed loan of US$150 million would help finance the purchase
of about 94,000 tons of rails, about 7,000 sets of freight car components, 504
service and freight cars, 8,000 axle and roller bearing sets, and consulting
services for technical assistance. Since NdeM was in urgent need to start its
investment program, the proposed loan would retroactively finance up to US$15
million of track and freighter components purchased after November 1, 1980
(see Schedule 1, para 4 of the Draft Loan Agreement). Loans from BANOBRAS and
NAFINSA in local currency and Government contributions would finance the balance
of project costs as indicated in the financing plan included in the Loan and
Project Summary. It is expected that there will be parallel financing by
EXIMBANK USA (about US$94 million) to finance the purchase of locomotives and
loans from foreign banks through NAFINSA and BANOBRAS of about US$292 million
to complete the financial package. NdeM would not borrow directly in inter-
national markets; the financial authorities prefer that these resources be
obtained through the Government's financial agents.
NdeM Organization, Management and Staff
53.       NdeM is a Government-owned enterprise which has considerable
autonomy in its management. However, the Government, through SCT, reviews
its investment plans, tariff levels, and its annual operating and capital
budgets. SCT is responsible for large scale construction works such as
for new lines, marshaling yards and major realignment works; when completed,
these works are then passed on to NdeM for operation and are incorporated in
NdeM's assets and capital. Since 1979, a Tripartite Commission headed by the
Comptroller General for Accounts of SCT and including the Financial Director
of NdeM, has been entrusted with overseeing the financial performance of
NdeM.  This Commission performed its task well in its initial year; it has
made NdeM more cost-conscious and brought about a revaluation of fixed assets
for the first time in NdeM's history.
54.       NdeM's day-to-day operations are the responsibility of Departmental
Managers, whose work is coordinated by a Deputy General Manager working directly
under the supervision of the General Manager. Productivity has improved
considerably. Between 1970 and 1979, traffic carried by NdeM increased
55 percent whereas staff increased by only 6 percent. Productivity per worker,
in terms of traffic units (freight ton-km plus passenger-km) increased from
366,000 units in 1970 to 532,000 in 1979; this compares favorably with other



- 17 -
railway systems, including leading European railways. Productivity per worker
is expected to reach 649,000 units by 1982. NdeM has a large and well managed
training establishment. A Manpower Study conducted under the ongoing project
established manpower and training needs up to 1982; as part of the Plan of
Action for this project, NdeM would update the Manpower Plan to 1985.
NdeM Facilities, Traffic and Operations
55.       Of the 14,200 km of railways operated by NdeM, principal traffic
routes account for about 7,600 km. The principal lines between seaports and
the central plateau were built in the 19th century; their steep gradients and
sharp curves now present operating and maintenance problems as tonnage and
traffic increases and heavier rolling stock and motive power are brought into
use. Capacity constraints have arisen on these and some other heavily used
routes; a major program of grade and curvature realignments is being carried
out by SCT to remove bottlenecks and make higher speeds possible, thus
increasing line capacity.
56.       NdeM has a wholly diesel powered system and operates about 1,160
diesel locomotives. Apart from additional locomotives for increased traffic,
NdeM requires heavier locomotives to replace old and smaller horsepower units.
Some 192 main-line locomotives will be purchased in 1981-1983. The NdeM
freight car fleet totaled about 32,100 units at the end of 1979; in addition,
considerable use is being made of hired foreign cars which enter the country
carrying imports from the US. In general, NdeM's fleet of freight cars is
relatively modern and of good design. The passenger car stock totals 1,300.
57.       An important component of the ongoing Third Railway Project was the
installation of a modern VHF/UHF telecommunications network spanning the
entire railway. In addition, computerized yard and train control systems
have been introduced with the aid of consultants. Centralized traffic control
(CTC) has so far been provided on 950 route-km, and future plans include ex-
tension of this system to lines carrying the highest traffic densities.
Improvement in the communications system being carried out under the Third
Railway Project will be followed up under the proposed project by the intro-
duction of a modern management information system which should help improve
efficiency further.
58.       NdeM's freight traffic grew from 18.1 billion ton-km in 1970 to 30.1
billion ton-km in 1979, an average annual growth of 5.8 percent. It is antici-
pated that traffic growth over the coming years will be rapid and sustained
as the economy as a whole is stimulated by oil production and exports. For the
1980-1985 period, freight traffic, in terms of ton-km, is expected to grow at
7.3 percent a year. Passenger traffic declined from 33.2 million passengers
in 1970 to 18.7 million in 1979. This can be attributed to the expansion of
public road transport and private automobile ownership, and to deliberate
reductions in passenger services on uneconomic lines between 1974 and 1978.
NdeM is currently carrying out a study of passenger services. Pending the
results of this study, NdeM has tentatively forecast that passenger traffic
will remain constant over the plan period; this assumption is considered to be
reasonable.



- 18 -
59.       Operating performance improved in 1976 and 1977, but declined in
1978 because of reduced investments in 1977-78 due to budgetary constraints
and an unprecedented upsurge of freight traffic in late 1978 and 1979. These
two factors resulted in over utilization of locomotives; scheduled maintenance
was reduced, increasing locomotive down-time and freight car turnaround time.
A renewed drive to improve maintenance with the assistance of consultants,
and a program to scrap old locomotives and purchase new ones, are already
improving operating efficiency.
NdeM Finances
60.       NdeM's financial performance since the Third Railway Project Loan
(1232-ME) was granted in 1976, has combined major achievements in some areas
and less impressive performance in others. The major achievements were:
rationalization of services, including the closure of uneconomic lines and
curtailment of more than 40 percent of passenger train services; payment of
specific subsidies to NdeM by the Government to compensate operating losses
identified with the remaining uneconomical passenger services; elimination of
taxes on gross revenues; reimbursement to NdeM of the total cost of operating
mail services by the Government and, lastly, the revaluation of NdeM's fixed
assets. On the other hand, tariff increases have been inadequate. However,
in examining the extent of tariff increases in the past, the fact that tariffs
had been kept virtually constant for 15 years up to 1975 by previous adminis-
trations must be kept in mind. The 44 percent freight tariff increase in
1975, while substantially above the cost-of-living increase that year, only
partially made up the gap that had developed between revenues and costs. In
1976, a further effort was made to reduce the gap (freight tariff increases of
38 percent as compared to a cost-of-living increase of 15.8 percent). During
1977, the Government was engaged in a program to overcome the consequences of
the financial crisis of late 1976, and chose to keep tariffs constant in order
not to accelerate inflation, which that year reached 30 percent and threatened
to get out of hand. NdeM's costs, in the meantime, rose sharply as a result
of the large devaluation of the peso. Freight tariff increases were made in
1978, 1979, and early this year, roughly to keep pace with current inflation.
However, the substantial improvements in NdeM's productivity since 1975
and the tariff adjustments thereafter resulted in the improvement of the
working ratio 1/ from 155 in 1976 to 128 in 1979, and the operating ratio 2/
from 163 to 134 in the same period.
61.       The Plan of Action aims at achieving steady improvements in the
financial performance of NdeM by restructuring and raising tariffs so as to
allow revenues to catch up with past cost increases. Tariff levels would be
adjusted each year by 5 percent more than cost increases; this implies tariff
increases ranging from 25 percent in 1981 (assuming cost increases of 20
percent) to 18 percent in 1985 (assuming cost increases of 13percent).The Plan of
Action further stipulates that, by 1988, revenues would cover all operating
1/   Operating expenses, excluding depreciation, and interest costs, over
operating revenues, not including Government compensation payments.
2/   Operating expenses, including depreciation, but excluding interest costs
over operating revenues, not including Government compensation payments.



- 19 -
and interest costs. On these bases, the working ratio is expected to improve
from an estimated 134 in 1980 to 94 by 1985 and the operating ratio from 154
to 107 in the same period. During negotiations both the Government and NdeM
endorsed the financial targets in the Plan of Action, and the Government
agreed to authorize increases in NdeM's tariffs in order that financial
targets be net, unless such increases are inconsistent with broader national
or sectoral objectives (see Section 3.02(b) of the Draft Guarantee Agreement).
NdeM would further carry out a study, by June 30, 1981, on improving its
tariff structure in order to eliminate tariff anomalies by which some goods
are carried at below costs. NdeM would then review each year the adequacy of
its tariff structure and request approval of changes in its tariff structure
when and as needed (see Sections 3.01(b) and 5.05 of the Draft Loan Agreement).
62.       To continue improvements initiated under the Third Railway Project,
NdeM would further agree under the Plan of Action to (a) periodically review
the financial and operational conditions of passenger train services and take
action to reduce losses while continuing to request Government compensation
for losses on uneconomic passenger services; (b) periodically carry out a
cost analysis on low density branch lines and request the Government to
compensate losses on them or to permit abandonment of services; (c) furnish
the Bank by June 30, 1981, a plan to accelerate action in reducing losses on
less than carload (LCL) traffic; (d) claim from the Government reimbursement
of the total cost of mail services. The Government in turn has agreed to pay
compensation as required in (a), (b) and (d) above (see Section 3.03 and 3.04
of the Draft Guarantee Agreement).
63.       NdeM has agreed not to incur any debt, unless otherwise agreed with
the Bank, if the debt/equity ratio, based on revalued fixed assets and includ-
ing the debt to be incurred, is more than 45/55 (see Section 5.03 of the Draft
Loan Agreement). This covenant is an improvement over the one in the Third
Railway Loan, which only limited short- and medium-term debt to 10 percent of
NdeM's capitalization and did not establish an overall ceiling on debt.
64.       A sensitivity analysis shows that NdeM's financial performance is
particularly sensitive to tariff levels. If tariffs are 10 percent lower
than assumed, the operating ratio for 1985 would be 157 instead of 107. The
combination of tariff decreases by 10 percent and cost increases by 10 percent
would produce much poorer results. The financial results are moderately
sensitive to traffic growth because a slower growth in traffic would result
in decreased variable costs. The conclusion is that all efforts should be
made to ensure that tariffs are increased as needed to meet the objectives set
forth in the Plan of Action.
Auditing
65.       NdeM's accounts are audited yearly by private, external auditors
according to standards acceptable to the Bank. This arrangement would be
continued under the proposed project (see Section 5.02 of the Draft Loan
Agreement).



- 20 -
Procurement
66.       All items to be financed under the proposed loan, other than
consultant services, would be subject to international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank guidelines. In evaluating bids, Mexican manufacturers
would be allowed a margin of preference equivalent to 15 percent of the CIF
cost of competing imports, or the relevant prevailing custom duty, whichever
is lower.
67.       Among the items to be purchased under international competitive
bidding would be components for freight cars which would be manufactured
locally by Constructora Nacional (CN), a state-owned enterprise. CN, which
operates efficiently and produces good quality cars, would then sell the cars
to NdeM at prices which are subject to Government control and are consistent
with market prices. As under the Second and Third Railway projects, the
proposed loan would finance the cost of the imported components for freight
cars, which are estimated to amount to about 18 percent of the price of cars
manufactured by CN.
Disbursements
68.       Disbursements for imported goods would be made on the basis of 100
percent of CIF costs and, for bids won by local suppliers, on the basis of
100 percent of the ex-factory costs of locally manufactured goods. The Bank
would also finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange costs of consulting
services.
Justification, Benefits and Risks
69.       Mexico's railways play a key role in the development of the coun-
try's economy. They are the principal means of transporting bulk commodities
over long distances, including food grains, minerals and fertilizers. The
project aims at expanding NdeM's carrying capacity to meet the transport
demands of a rapidly growing economy. At the present time, and largely
because of postponements of investments in the railway sector in 1977-78 when
the Government was carrying out its economic rehabilitation program, there
are bottlenecks in the railways system which caused serious problems in the
supply of grains and other commodities in 1980. The project would help
relieve these bottlenecks. The project would also improve the efficiency
of NdeM's operations and its financial performance, continuing programs
initiated under previous projects.
70.       Economic returns were calculated for investments in motive power
and rolling stock, track renewal and associated track machinery, bridge rehab-
ilitation and the centralized traffic control system. Benefits from the
acquisition of motive power and rolling stock are transport cost savings for
the overall economy, calculated as the difference between rail and road
economic costs, taking into account the traffic which would be diverted if the
investments were not made. Benefits from main line renewal are reduction of
maintenance costs and avoidance of track deterioration. The benefits of bridge
improvements are improved equipment utilization by avoiding abnormally low



- 21 -
speeds and those for the CTC system are mainly savings due to avoiding delays
on the line with the consequent increase in capacity. The returns on the
motive power and rolling stock components (84 percent of total economic costs)
are estimated at 18 percent; on main line track renewal 17 percent; on track
renewal with recovered rails 21 percent; on the bridge improvement 26 percent,
and on the centralized traffic control system 39 percent. The overall economic
rate of return is estimated to be 22 percent.
71.       A shortfall in traffic and increases in costs are usually the main
risks in railways projects. The risk of a shortfall in traffic growth is not
considered great given Mexico's rapidly growing economy and the prospect that
freight allocation is unlikely to change between different transport modes;
moreover, investments are required at the present time to relieve bottlenecks.
However, in order to relate yearly procurement to possible changes in the type
and volume of traffic as it develops, it was agreed during negotiations that
freight car requirements would be reviewed annually with the Bank (see Section
3.05 of the Draft Loan Agreement). The overall economic return, considering a
25 percent reduction in traffic growth, is 17 percent, and considering a
10 percent increase in project costs, 19 percent. If both these factors are
taken together, the overall economic rate of return would be 16 percent.
Thus, the economic viability of the project is not very sensitive to these
changes. The risk of a shortfall in the financial objectives for NdeM is
closely tied to the prospect of timely and adequate tariff increases. In
view of the Government's stated policies on the pricing of goods and services
provided by the public sector, this risk can be considered acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENT AND AUTHORITY
72.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and BANOBRAS and NdeM, the
draft Guarantee Agreement between the United Mexican States and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of
the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III
of Annex III.
73.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
74.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
November 26, 1980



- 22 -                                          ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                              Page  1  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9.AGES
LANED AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                        - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            1972.5
AGRICULTURAL     977.2                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN            EUROPE
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  380.0        710.0    1290.0                 1384.1                    2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAhS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      770.0       1047.0    1384.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      36.4         50.3      65.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 51.0          59.0      65.2                  63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         205.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. KM.                        18.0         26.0      33.0                  28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND      36.0         52.0      67.0                  81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.6                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          51.0         50.0      50.9                  54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4          3.5       3.5                   3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE'(PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.3       3.3                   2.7                        1.6
UREAN                               5.0          4.8       4.6                   4.1                        3.3
CRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         42.0      38.0                  34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.0          9.0       8.0                   8.9                        8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.1       3.0                   2.5                        1.5
FAMILY PLANNING       -
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1     845.7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      21.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71=100)           97.0        100.0     101.0                 106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCEliT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   110.0        112.0     114.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         66.0      66.0                  65.6                      91.0
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         27.0      27.0                  33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) M^iORTALITY RATE    14.0          9.8       6.0                   8.4                       4.3
hEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0          62.4      65.0                  63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            78.0         74.0      60.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         54.0      62.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ..         71.0      70.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..         29.0      49.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  62.3
ORBAN                                ..           . -       *                   79.4
RURAL                                ..         13.0      14.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1700.0       1481.0    1815.0                1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1613.0    1398.0                1227.2                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TITAL                             617.0        831.0     851.0                 480.3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..        549.0     758.0
RURAL                                ..       1289.0    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..         ..                   ..                      17.0
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7
CRBAN                               5.7          5.7
RURAL                               5.2          5.8
AVERAGE NUM1BER OF PERSONS PER RGOM
TOTAL                               2.9          2.5
URBAN                               2.6          2.2
RURAL                               3.4          3.2        .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                *.         59.0        *-
URBAN                                '-         80.7        **
RURAL                                 ..        28.0         ..



- 23 -                                    ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  2  of 5
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-8
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN             EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  80.0        104.0     116.0                  99.7                     105.9
H4ALE                 82.0        107.0      119.6                 101.0                    109.3
FEMALE                77.0        102.0      114.0                  99.4                    103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         22.0      39.0                  34.4                      64.0
MALE                  14.0         27.0       42.0                  33.5                     71.1
FEMALE                 8.0         17.0      36.0                   34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)  24.0           24.0        ..                   38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             44.0         46.0      46.0                  30.5                      29.4
SECONDARY                           13.0         14.0      17.0                   14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         65.0         74.0       76.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          14.0         24.0      42.4                  43.0                      84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          91.0        278.0     306.0                 245.3                     192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          18.0         60.0      85.0                   84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   79.0           ..        ..                   63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0            5.0        4.2                    ..                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10993.0        14493.5   18951.2
PEMALE (PERCENT)                    15.2         17.4      19.0                   22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               55.1         45.0      39.0                   37.1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  19.5         23.0      26.0                   23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 30.2         28.8      28.8                   31.5                     40.9
MALE                                  51.1         47.4      46.8                   48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                                 9.2         10.1       10.7                  14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6          1.7        1.7                   1.4                       1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c         60.7      57.7.
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3. 4L          3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF NOUSEHOLDS    9.8/c          9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     270.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     216.0                  190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     332.0                 474.0
RURAL                                 ..           ..     332.0                  332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of coutries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963.
April, 1980



- 24 -                                                                                 ANNX I
Page 3 of 5
00109N1Tf095  OF SOC IAL INODICATORS
Not..:  Although the doto so. dros  fno. sota             orlyjdged she  s.t sushoritaotos hsodi;rliablu,. Ittshould also h. s.tod sht they  -a  out hs. tte-
sostoogly oo~oahls bes... ofcbs lok of *t:Sderdls1ddaffstte -cod  oosopta usd by 41f  tuo                 uoriais coll.ttlog  oh. data.  The duot.          ,  us
h1 .., u...fol to dseorih. ordars of  sgntd         d*todlot. trsudo, 0.4 oharsoosrlss              i.ASJ cdifa-o..ujutb41     ....os    o .o o.otL.s..
Ths tsfsr..s.. Stoop. sOs (1) tbs sas  oocuar  grou.p of ohs suh).ot  -outry and (2) o. -ouoy grop siob aossshot htgf,- aw..gS' istua   shu  t.h. otustoy group
of ohs suhisot -ouoty  (osos.po for 'Cupitsl Surplus oil top-rosra" grou.p shuts  '01d41. Iooos  Sooth Atftlos cod Middle oU.t' Is oh.ss b..eu.. of sstsgsr
Isol- .ul .fe  effioitisa(.  Is she rsfseo  group duos ths s-ras  so. S               poPolotis v.ighosd orIohaS I sat  foo ..,h isdiosor   Ws show  osly vh55 A0
isaso haf of ohs tougoi.s  Is A group has dots fo  thst todo'tuor.  OSi.. ohs oo                        ...g  o    turlcis aso  ohs  siooods.d     toOs  vteotyof
dote cod is so  uif.r-, osts  ss  hs sosrotssd to r-altiaver- .S.  of os  tdfost-r so eoothsr.  ThIss trtgs    t  oly ousflit  o                                  lpoog ths oslo_
of ... iodto-tt- us aott  asg ohs ro..tosy ed t-f-t-  gr-p..
LulARIA (thousoed Sq.ha.)...uueslo  00  P'hooIiclo- topoistlos d55050 by o-os  05 pretttlog  9h7-
Total - Towt .. sufooser    -tspistog lsd All.u sod 1l.ud osar.                                  tisso  quslifird   3oS  ne diosl s-hoo1 so usios-ity lto.1
Aurlouturs     Ossesof sgolou tol.  ...au.a.d-tsosrl'o  P. - I,ssl                            Popto.iss-  o    oeo P     s .i,tso..- .Populsto   dtutdsd hy ousb- of pto-itous
fot  ro.,   P Stuoale  serht sod  1itIh.  gordes  or .  to l. fellow; 1977 dsts.              ads sod fs.sls grudotososs,psolootl1. outs.a  sd ..asiste-   05
GM? PRO CAPITA  SIf ) - 10(0 Psr .upite sastitas So outost aetkt pttosa. tol-                     u          P".  n  ttl  di' de  hIohi ot     s       ote    f  opls  bd
ouutod hy ss  to-osraioo  sthod ss World Book Atlas (1976-78 bosia); 1960,                          ilbhla to puhlir sod pri-ts gSaralI -d  apotilitsd hospito1 so  Os-
1950. oo  1978 detu.                                                                            hsilltutSl.o .. tsoora.  Hoaptlossa. -    StoblishSSts pe-sassolyStaffd
by aI ostiosa physloifs.  EsoohLahasst  prrotdisg polulpolly tostodia1
fNROthY COOOUOPTI0OPot CAPITA - Aunool  tsopisof  t                       -aril  nrgp  (roe1      cus  r          .s.lldsd.   Ra.-l ho.rtsls., ho-oa. Ostluds heIlth Od  sdltul
sod lgi         sross   uus..gs  od hydro-.. o.. oer ood Oscbth. l slat-                                 bessroo   psssotly .50tefd by o physiLoto  (boo by o asddtel oesstett.
totIoily)It IJllgrs  ofto  s4utoa.loot Pot teplos; 1960, 1970. sod 1978                         ot.siwf,st,.)  luto  offa- i-pstaot ottodeotos cod prs~,tds 
date.                                                                                           liaistd resgs of sedital fetiltlse.  For sttisstiosi porp ss. u.hs  hospt-
toli. ltld. WHO. priotlipolgse  eod  Pstilaltsd hosoilto1. sod .roro
POPMPATION AND1 VITAL STATISTICS                                                                  hoapsols IosI to  -utu  h.pitnols osd sudito1 ad astsrslty  -stare.
Toosl Pouolo.id-Y.u- (slllluoo   - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod 1978                        AssOoot   slolBed - etooJ sabar of edais..o. to 00 disohargss
dosei.                                                                                        (t.1hstul.dVivie  h y the   bshs  of bsds.
Orho. P ulttoo_(osro..s_s  tO 000) - Ratio of urhes to total populetioo;
differest daflotitos of u-bao o  soY uffatt oooypo..shlitsy of dsOa                       UoSXts
ooog touoiss; 1960, 1970, s.d 1978 dato.                                               AoSres  Si.. of Hogashold(sso   Pro  hou.bohd) - stool, orbs. o   mroal-
PPorlusiso  Prosolomos            ..         ..gt.   .J.                                        A h...shold  ..ssiss. of e  rop of iedioldus. oh.  hr h otli             quarsqr-
PopltulOo   o  sr20   -  utsnppuolspoltt auohad .s 1990                                       god their solo  _ss.A hoordatr or lodgs  soy or sey .s   h  isoludad is
tou1 populolos. hy gS. sod ses end shalt  -otulity uod ftltsytstse.                         ohs house.hold for  tsotistiol1 putpOsSs.
5'ojattton paltossst  for sotslity rots. tospoiss of thros lavol   sc-                     vru   mms   f0s05   0  t--Ste.uh.=sdrr-                                 Aairugs  05
tog lit s soyato..ooY S. birth s-o..usLog o1sh c-uory's pot tepots  .sos hSfposo   o-taI  olobs.sdruo   tupa    sosSoo
ise.  sod= 1 s ls 1f. s spsoteoy stbilisiog  St 77.5 yact.  Th. pota-                       doolitoga,  -sps.tiloly.  Dooilos. Soolodo   o-preotetosro 
sote rs fot fsrOIltoy ltot  ala  hvathra. lavlssso1 ,s  daollss I.                          usootpiod p.ts..
folttlity o.t..diog to boo-  ls-s  ed pest f ally plaootog perforsaso.                   Atoa..o  Olotict  (tars                ofdollg.     stl. orhb    co .trol1
Euthoo..toy tshut u.sigosd 000 of ths..  i1..osiooo.of sorltoltoy                           Coovsotioell dwgllitgs sIhelttl  Iy  toY           Sto   qoerosa OaP....tog
sod f-rtilitty trsod. fot projotti.  pdtr.s.                                                o   os,  re,cd  us   osloarspolsy
ths hirth, tot  IS oqou1 to ohs dssh ret., ord as   -hs -g                            - EDooCAts
_bSetoatoosost.  This to sobheved coly oftsr fg-tilityrss.t   doolioe 50                  Adjustad EIo..llsoot  WIso
rho  _aylooeo.o   100.1 of ..it Sto  r.p-odu-tio  rots, tIes s_h goselo                     P-ur   ool-ttl.sl   o                     1sa. - Gross ot0t1, salo sod fos1l
of tosso osyloosa Iseof ..ootly.  Ths sltloostly  .o.o..esoa                             oolsto   i  ae   stsplun   ao   sprstss   ftsss
oet-cd  ItItstet    to i. yr-jstsd coutcito                    f ths  Soosto                  rsr  sohool-egappato; to vol   tolds thilt'so gdhl
to shr yr-  2000, cod ths ruts of doous  offotiytt   orplt-yeshtojso.frdf  to   sgfsofpyuyousis   o
aba los boos raoohsd.                                                            Oscuodotyt ll00lt1001 -l..-  '   to Al sohs cod  sauy   -1 Cosuod    hos  arodt
Porulostot Osoetto                                                        odutor~~~~Y..    bto   0-t10. atlrdat f  -to lyosth. of opprond priorytostrcosf o
Pot  o. h. -   td-yot ppolttot700  cour  ktlmeor (10 hetor.) ofprtld.. gsirsh  otoettool, or .              s.. hr  ...I_trelott         lo totort _ for pot
Peotly      -  i-wPP..inP     qr   i--   10h..rVooeos-loSo.. soolsono- osruss o  saodey  -n iototooa  totit. otlpo                                                            i
IA  oet),  od tot... I6  yssod e-  cos.t)dI   bV - f-roogsoiof1o-yIe  PPdO.. dtly   rs.odtoosodotooy1005008
lton;l   97y     90   od17    u.Prl-ote   ol   trlsu t sod   . saodro - To.te1 oo i.tS  stotid  t
Potolottonbooth boo   R-rot--tna     Aoo  gos  rotos of tota  aid.-                         poion7so  ftpsc tod ty rofs ..d.odo  ysahaoftehtsish
P.,eto    ot  Rt  tr...so) -  Cthonld At,cl800   os    t  re   O                                  dl lOto4cyy rots (rotri   I trs     ot   ebt   sdedot
C6d   1t y Rats (tsr ohuiseod) - Acuoul lhos   irolt pot choohgod of oid-yeo
toiluto; 196 19170. cod  1978 dote.d                                                         P,001f90t.I08 ZId                          -d.~TS                       :oldi
CP.d ltoonGth RaEl(00  ohouss ) - Atotal dtotA  ps-         hotodo Sl-yaryad-es  Cer  (ts   thuoo  oo_logiond -Yussgsror   uysto                                            t
po,Pu,""it; .1910    1970, uqdt 19T60d7so                                                      cuo odcoglso970-igt7sooo;ccldo    fhloos.  ora-                             ho
sil oy oos  usuo   96lly  fo- dorcooo   otgt   90   90   n   87                           reoost  gso0nspubli  ps1t pnPoossid of                   1 poplotto  eonlds  oslo
Pastlop...t... Peroi-A tooso.  Auol(huu.             ctltoo   fOtPOO                    otortusst   oooo   o   tyssso   stosloo   sl   e
of. Etclcuooh        doio         -oo   Aooptoo  ofl  bisthool  tall   01....d o   iOtOtO.-    csusft;ds   o   000oessyoth   oprhsso sa
00000 :tf' chldhol, pttous 00(1-4 er)          o . Id.ho  Ps htth-.....sdoo  idsyt- to.T           . OsalsCro  (puLt sotn  otlto ) -  P...s..toRs  fot. h-pds   s
o     - 00 -00 -mto- 0P00iOf 0if00h.              psons .u...t                                             0thosd popul.i-to          - soilutyp. oofos  TV..  fsto-ost
POOl 00   "I,,;1 ....0 "Y                                                                        toouootIendingdlo 1960.197ot eng 1s77.  RosiofRT-i-sts sos to
,-d,Y offo    rdoio70Cona(997-0)-Odoo .or 001ccoutuo                                              lsto  of. "dil t.gOost1 pbIto prsath .....r' deoftpopd oaopon-io,:dtt    pi-
,rd   Itls  fll  fod,,    cInodlS.os.  yr-odootiooootidfools   cod Otg  uodr-            litnttdvtdptotys   oodo   gsooS fP.os.bIt  is  ooldos
to 00  _loodo   you  lot..  Cofdttt_oos   poh _r 004  Ifog                                                                  Y.aoo  ohodly   Oiopsre  s  torS sao k
to   oo ohilodod-i.g Afforg 5ss prodcito  of. suth  iooh-r to loss4      . to               o.toltos ebld duhtog I oh. yonttodo   udos foo    todobr-    'tIno
IPor tofi F.0d0ro   of  ulrlo   psrooooft"otssot)  -Coyotdhro
dooy   qlolo   of uI foodt su       71too te0l  Ind toutf  ps- topita....             tiol P001i1"                   "                     n
noor  P at   hso   oook         e   opio    tld    oolfr,eoo                           c,od noross otd oo.. loys   hotet' aoudp-gloosoinfooS. sOudonts- s pt.
quod-iloson   tfod rtoSlu,   u.d.ltionos to                  ...dlsonlo   feo d oqiro        lnit-tiont d tod oprios tunolos 000000. ..  .            _ooals  1960  197  cod ~_
rosbldbo; I   I165    90  god  1977 dooc.                l:~g.:ff-   n            CishlA-o-t Os porootg ft ur-d10frts160  197  cod 1976 done
qoroot    t oil ooooo    oulso    o  thpoiofrotoo17   o   50 boo.hp    :
aloccoo   I100   ftod posl   0  dyeA20gcu  fc-l  o                                          cultuio    00(orst  -Otl slolo,1i... .                          dtdfsslo-Po nt lintlo   0
Idpd-'otou  0  0   coreo  o  oigi.  1961d 65 poopt0o bynd  to7 ohto Td1,17,  o   91ds.                                 thoeoe00spoutotoeonfoso
.ord .oo  toty; 19t1-05  1970 .. ofd17   0c               Cp.df.                       Andootooono ht                pplot,  o    o    lu   to.A  o   sl
for o       IVito  ot to   sorl  fro   oisl od -ilsb - Proit odyp-  P t food. do-          BOR0 FO       foRCEool    000
o: lyod  fro  11l,blo 004 i to        i.    ..t.pld-i..ip.1... toguTtrdy;16-5   90  o   97b   ttloLtor Fonodott (toobo d.)- tot   o.. po.lycl -iouds  15 cod 6i-sod 000
CIlP_ .d hcos 14)Noru inooo (too Nthococod): -doo dotoho- perd thosod. Ittto:,o,socn,loho.(0000
out goooo'  -4 70000,  o ohildootto sIlo  ugogroup; forotto  droolp togitout
Irno  d_t doIloo f-onotlft pphloi; 1960 .1970cod 197  doto.. f-CO... tTiTIIsITSo
h.birth;l 1960. 1970 o1d 0, 970, dots.                                                                                                                            t
of co po tooood  100hlroe.                                                         eoloto  Aholoo Pdott  IsosoIrol ( i9ftoota   - ooe  codloe l 
doors.    ' to Solo  Ocof (otont.i ofSpt...ootto) -  Psotu  in --hot  eod rou   -P              fiholutoS povro ..oost'  bot to thb  ftorto  loolO7o  ohlt a1 dlo
Noohor of pooplo  (tots1, orb t, oo_001   11  oeoaluooo0  sooIo5                          -ttoe      tl  -dqot  doss fyloe oaooa!o-odnsoro aI   o
tototof 60otsobooo             our. o       dot  2 I0dot20 grosolofs  toY..  ho         yo-ooal "in-sI     fos  000.bltbo s--10   oo   h   uo
totoidtod a  hole  nlsho 1roooohlo 00000  of slo t-- boot         Ih. Otu -nsso           los  ofi'tt       -ftotoen  oo  igho   toloffloog-0 Oh
roudoou-l  000000 wool4 10010 the t7    n E_oooootf   of onohor  of  Elo foohl             touoo    oo.utoOOw   louoOoot  oos150                                rs
do  otbo    toin4adooootooopp  of.tIn dop to I fooho  010                                onToh            'roo   fppltio(na nIrrl   h   r  "oePt  por"
Fcty 000000IRS ott do.ly
ootol-Oouhoo  of p00010 (toosl  00100  a97odend1975   t! 00001)                                                   IL.onosdt.ihyt.. teloJo
ofboouFotodsco         ot-oo  h9'7  -1torbo7o d       yotoes orolg ceofoftpril, 198
pIt pojolts ood ulolico  lootollooflosppO.i.,  nd  on  ti.  l...     f--i



1O            9           5                                                 N
OONI10100  ooo.0r0        a-N 10000.-ION '0 0  .-I'-(IO  00-'ON(0-  0-O(0IN      ON'-' II 9 N - N  Noo
oooooiiS   1,000000   0000  N  (00010  oO.-000,0                   N  1,100         '101
090-00000-000 NO   ,(000OoH   100 OH                      00(00(0,00  00-NO-I       000   09  0,00
10 000       00,0   10000N    (000-N   -  000   0  000
ON      0,,000HO(O0 00,100000-    00-0  N   (ON    0  001-N    0  - r                   NOHON
000  N                                 S520-i0-  5I
ON 0.   OON 10 0H00NH9N  -                                     910N9.O,OO 000
000                 0-NONII-lOMO  000 00-010   OOOH 00N   --                         '0001000    0100 '0(ON9  0l1  oo   oooo(9o  '1 -<          oc.  N  0900  101310
0               0                                                                         9              9
00        0  ON  ('0            0 000       00  ON        00      N  00  00  00  011
00 0                5                    00    HOOO  000                    000    N  0000    0  0             OH    o'ON0 00-
011 N                    oH  N       00  00-         10' ONOH -           N  0.       0   0-0-N    00-      N  ON       ONHO 019
0-00                N   000-         HO          N        00-01,0         N  0H9    0   00         0            HO      0000 ON
N '00   0 0-V9oooo                                                                                   NNI'O
9                0                  00                9  99                  NO           00    0000
0                         0          99    I           0  ON             N   00    0       0-0    00-      9  o       00000
ON                  9   9                   0   9       OON                           0     00    0  0      N  H(0      0  0010
-    0   01      N0fl                                00        0         00      0 NP  0
(00                '0   N            OH    N   H                                            0         0         00      NN    N
00                  N   0            0      0   N                                           ON        N        NN       0    00
ON                  N                  N   0   01       0      N                              9                         '0  0-
00    0   N              01                             0                              0
9                0-0    0   N              H                              0-
9-9        -9
9                       0                  N                               IN
0       NO                                 NONHO    0-00-0-                        I         I
'00                                               -                             -                         -
0-                              0- 0-0- (0 0-   N N N 0'         0-H N N  01 (0 010   N    (0ONOON10NH'OH
101000  NO                               0,0-0-NO-H    000-0'     10(00   NOUINOON  NOON  N         (0001000H010HN
I-                                                                        I'                              : H 19
0  NN0-                        0100-100-N    N'O(001    000    0100-10,000' 0-0-101010    0-(ONO0-0-00-N
lb (0 NH  NO                                                   N                                 0                   0
00   0-10   0-0-NO  0          N         10 1001   I NO   '00-0-0-NON N  N9   0-
fr   -                                '1 o-  [..oo-o
H                       0-N(00-NNO       N 01.00'00    000-H   OHN,0O(OON   ON  N N,000-,0NNONNH (0(000-0 10,,
01000-NO   I         0 0-(0(0NO'N0- 0'   00N(000    101000-OH 00'0  10NNO'OOOOO 0(100-    0011000' 0(000-N   '0
.0-                                                              b.
0(00-0-  00  000-   o00000NN10           0-00(ONN    0-NO' 100100-0-0   N0-N0(0N0  NO 0(00' '0 0001(00-(00-'0N?  9
I                                                  ...0
0(00(0-  000  0-No    10N00-00(OHH       0-10010100   0-NN 000-ON         010(0000-0  '00,00-101' '00-100-000-0-0-N N
N OH                                                     0
O                                                           I
I H       0          10                           H   0100   '0        A                                 0      0-
10(0100-NO           (NOO0HON 0-         100H0(OO    (0100-0  0        H  0- 0     10100-INN   01(010000-0  0-0
0-100-10100                                                   -       C"'          0  - .       N
(00          100,00100-0-0    N000N0010(0000000010100'10IO  10000N01000NNNH(0(00H
00-01   0-0-01 0N01000      0-000-NO    0-0-No  0  000    0(010100-0,00(000-0-  0  100-
0-H    I  NooO'H0- 00-N       1010(0(00-10   0-00(0  0  0- 0'N   100-01010-01(0  000-1010  00N0001NN 00-
10010(000-000       0100-0100   100-NN       000-    10000-HNN  ooOO(0  H  0001000-0-0(100-0-
010                                            01                             I
oH                                                                                      0                   01
ON                                                    N
11000-0  00         (10                         oH    ONO    N                      0        I 0      000       0-0-H
NI          (000010010N          0-00NH 010   100000              ONONN   0-0   N           1000-0  0-NO  O               N
I 000-0- NH  0 -    -                                          0  -                          I    - 0
10         I 0N000000           000 0-00    10000,0000    NH'00(00  10000-(O              0 0-N0-N100100 00  0
010         I '001000-1010(00-   00-0-0010   (00-NO  0  0110(0   00010100000-0-0-           10(0010010-100-1000  '0
ON 00-N NOON10NHNN 0100100-0- 00(010 0 001(0 0-10(0000- 0-010010- 00001000-0100- 0
O   0010    O1010NNO(0010        0-0-0-0-NO   00-NH      000    00-0-0100  0-0-0100-        000-1000-0-NO
000-ON                             N   0            000 0      0- 01    1001
HON                  000-NO- 0-          001101000    (0000              0-100-NO  00   0-    0-101010  010000-          00        9
F
101000-  -          0  0010N0N10         100-0-0-0-10   (0101010    01010   0- 0101000  0010010    000(00-0-100-100-0,00           01
                 [
01100-0-  10         000-01000-00        100100-NH    0-NON      100-0  (0 1000100  0-100-100      100-0100-00-0-0-0   10 N
010(010  N   0010010000,00-N N           01100000-NO 0-0         0100    0' 101010(00-01010010     '000-0100-0-0-010
01(0100-    1000010001001101010          ONN0-'010   1000-0      101010  0- 0-10(0100-  10100-0(0  000-100-10010(010     00        0
N       5
0  01(0 10                    HNNN,0000(HN 0- 0-
01000100-    0000-              10 100(0100  0-0-  00     00010  010-1000-
1000    -   -
00,0(000    000-0     NNO    0100000-  00-100-10        0-0-00100-00-010-N
I                                                                          F      .4.
(000(0  0                                0,00100-0-    ONNO       000    N  01010001  00-(0100-     10001000-10010,0   10
100010 10                                .                                   OONOObO               .               . (    0-
00(00  10  00-N    (((((((11             0-101000-N   00-0-10    10100   0(0-NH 1001 N0-(0100       1000-0-010(000-0
I       0- :01010                         0(00-001(0   (010010    0100-   0            10000110     0-0-00-100-000-10              0
01010010                 H   00100    0,000-0000  01
0-1010000-100                                                                                                            V         0
0 100000    00(00               00010100  10 0- 0 (0    0-10(00  (001000
-                                                 0    0 N
00                             100-000-010,01010        0100000000-  '01001010            010H0100- 1000100
10(00-0010   0-10010    000    H(0000 0- 0-0-0110(0       0110(00000(0100-    100
0-0-0(0  10   . .                        (0(0(0100-N   010100     10010   0-I 0-0010N  100101010    0-0-010000000-    00
0000-00                          100(0,000110010(0       10100-000(0100-  000-100-          (0010010100110010    H
-   010   1000                0      101000    I N      1010101000010
oNN0-100- 00100 (0 0-0(0010 0-10 1010 01000- 0(0010-0
101000010    00-0-0     000    (0o'0L0-V10  0-0000-      100000-0-00-0-0   lo
(0,00   I N   0010     '('(1(11           10(001010-01010100      10010   0(010000  10010010        (00(01010100-100-10
I 0-000  I 0- .-..  .                     00,00-0(0    00010      0-0-ON(010O 100- 0-0100110        010,010000(000   110
(0                       100-100-10(010000        0100000100100-1010(00-            100-10101000-0010
I 00010- 10
0                             00H10(.0                 00    0  N  I    0 10(0010    01 0- (00 0- 0- 10 0
00-NOON 0-0-0-10 oN0 ,0('0O0-0000110N0
o. ..0010000100-
0 ONO 100100100 (00-0-0- ONN 0- 0-1010,0101000-00
1.10010000                      0 0          N
1010000              1(0(1    10          (000(0000-H             100-0   0(0-1010(010  100-0N110   0-0-0000-00100-       0
. . ' N 00-0-N001101000010 No00.
. . . . 010   0-0-ON    0100    000000-  00010110
19
N 0  0               ,0NN    100100,00  00-100-0       0001010  0-    10 0
0 0 0 100 N 0- 10 0 000 0(1010N001 1010 0 0 01 01 0- 0 N I -010
0-No (IIIIIIII
0100-00-01   000-0'     000-   0- 000-10000000            0100-10  0-010
10 0-   HHNN                  No'   0010,0               0           N100         0000-    00-
NoO[0-  OONNO0-0100          o00000    000-0-                01           o-ooHO       O(000000000    '0
I.0 0 0-0-000 000-N 0-1010000
1001 0
O                0               0          0                                                         10
0 00 0 I
0 10   0 0 0 0            ONONON  0-   000,00-0-00 10
0-001000-0-10100-01000 .'   0-10000-100 00-010  N            N (1000-100 (00-100       1010(00100001010    100
10 0 10 --. 010000100-1010001001000 0 0- 0- 01 10 0          0  0100100 1010000-0   000-00010 10 0- 0    (00
0-0(0100               N               0          01                                                        I        ON
0                0               0          10                                                        0        0
0                0               0
0-100-0                                                                          01                       J O
0101000(00                     100001100-  01
0-000100    00010               10(000-100- 0-10000-      01010000 .OONO   10
0010(10                      o10o100-    00100              0- 0-0-000 001000         100-100010  1010



- 26 -
EALANCE OF PAYNIENTS.  TIAL ASS0STARCE 88D DEbT
7US$  illioe *t current prices)                                                                     Pe5  of 5
Preleiciary
Actual                                    E6ti steD                       Projections
1970         1975           1976         1977           1978          1979          1990             1982              1985
SUBHARY BALANCE OF PAYKENTS
Exports (includin"  NFS)                             2,745.4       6,081.7      6,836.3        7,795.1      11,176.4      15,503.9       24,806.9         37,601.7         59,787.7
Inperto (l-cleding 60S)                             3,416.9        8,636.7       8,421.0       7,655.0      11,466.4      16,739.9      24,263.2          36,299.6         61,827.8
Reso rcc    -                                       - 671.5      -2,555.1      -1,585.4       -  59.9       -  290.0      -1,236.3          543.6         -  696.0         -2.040.1
BO1eres,  ne- -                            - 307.0      -1,266.5      -1,551.2      -1,811.0      -2.311.9       -3.267.8      -4.070.5         -4.751.8         -6.244.2
Direct Inveececnc Inccce                            - 267.5        - 657.5      - 666.7       - 401.4       -  477.4         557.0      -  5B7.0          -  5&7.0         -  587.0
Workerb  Ro=ittaocen                                   122.7         174.6         239.6         251.0         277.0         320.0          320.0            320.0            320.0
Currect T7.n.fe.e, net                                  35.3         123.4         156.0         168.5         197.9          218.0         239.8            290.2             3B6.2
Currenr A-coun  eslooce                            -1,068.0      -4 ,181.1     -3,407.7      -1 ,852.8      -2,604.4      -4.553.1      -3.223.5          -4,759.1         -6,932.8
Frlcoto O1cecL Onsestnee n                             322.0         748.8         626.2         555.9         530.0         666.5          738.4            928.3          1,380.7
Public Med. and tong Trn L.one, net                    258.6       3,565.9       4,262.5       3,937.3       4,079.0        3,129.1       3,375.6          4,30.3           5,656.6
(Diubrn-een-)                                      (821.3)    (4,418.6)    (5,417.9        (6,232.3)    (8,343.3)    (10,415.0)    (7,203.0)           (9,617.3)        (15,9i9.62
(Repay-ectc)                                      (-562.7)      (-952.8)   (-1,155.4)   (-2.295.0)   (-4,264.2)         (7,285.9)   (-3,827.5)        (-5,387.0)        (10,283.0)
O he- Capitol                                          588.7          31.7     -1,801.9      -2,136.2      -1,782.1       -1.046.4         990.4           1,345.0          2,135.0
(Public Short Ter-)                                (139.6)       (764.7)       (879.0)      (-950.0)   (-1,489.4)         (205.5)       (400.0)           (529.0)          (804.5)
(Other Copital, n.e.i.)                            (449.1)      (-733.0)   (-2,681.4)   (-1,186.2)    (- 292.7)           (840.9)       (590.4)           (816.0)        (1,330.5)
Change  n I e R rven (-- incre ..)                   -102.1         -165.0         320.9       -504.2         -222.5        -208.9      -1,880.9          -1,744.5         -2,239.5
G0221T AND LOAN CO 7ITKZNT0
PUBLIC 97D. AND L.T. LOANS
I1RD                                                  146.8          310.0         410.0         162.0         494.5         467.0           _                 _
IDA                                                     -              -             -             -             -             -             -
0th-r Moltilot-1el                                    112.4          121.6         171.2         122.5         152.2         268.4
Go-erneent.                                             78.8         265.2         280.1         224.3         407.9          21.2
Suppltors                                              69.7          15.6         132.3         105.3         133.4           2.0
B-nk. and Financial Ietitnutio.s                      443.5       3,360.7        4,561.2      6,996.6       8,240.5       11,690.9
rends                                                    -           139.9         318.6      1,262.3           36.4         160.0
0EBT AND DEST SERVICE
Public Debt Outs-endirg & Di.bureed                 3,238.0      11,541.7      16,062.6      20,832.2       25,774.1      28,192.3           EXTERNAL4  DEBT
(end of period)                                                                                                                                        Outerendins end Dishoreed
Int-r.et on Public Debt                               218.0          950.4      1,096.6       1,326.7        1,823.2       2,849.6                                  aD D-c. 31, 1979
R.p.y-eet or Peblic Debt                              475.6          762.6      1,154.9        2,232.2       4,416.2       7,737.2
Other Debt Service (net)                                 -             -             -             -             -             -                                   bOtilIocs      Percent
Totl leObt Servic  (net)                              693.6       1,612.9        2,252.5      3,658.9       6,239.4       10,586.8           Public M2 & L.T.
Bnrdee on Frport Etrnoee 2/ (7.)                                                                                                                  Loans
s.  Public Dobn Osrvlce                              24.2          25.6          31.8          45.5           54.5          66.9
b.  T1t01 Debt S rvic                                24.2          25.          31.9           43.5          54.5          66.9          I0RD                    1,730.6         6.1
c.  Total Debt Serviec and Direct                                                                                                         Oth rbutil.t-l            995.4        3.5
1n-v  t       -nt Incoen                       33.5          36.3          41.3          50.5          58.6          70.6           Goverptest.               995.6        3.2
Av raEs Terne of Puhbli  0040                                                                                                                Suppliers                 384.0        1.4
A. Inc Tre  oe 2 of prier yeer a                                                                                                          bond                    2,515.0        S.9
D.. end D.                                      7.4          10.2           9.5           8.3           8.9          il.1           Other Finencial
b. Arorti-tion .. X of prior                                                                                                                In-titotlon          21,671.8       76.9
yc_r'n D.O. and D.                             16.3           9.2          10.0          14.5          21.2          30.0
IR8D E.po.uro                                                                                                                               Petal                  28,582.3      100.0
a.IBRD D.O. & D. es 0 of
Pu.'le D.O. and D.                             18.0           9.7           7.6           6.6           5.7           6.1
b.  IB5D Debt Sernic  as X of
Public D.bt Servic                              7.7           7.2           5.9           4.2           2.9           2.1
- Not Oppli-rble or .e..ilobl
1/ Ircludee interoet cc short-tere pctVeto -nd phblic debt
2/ Includes vorker renitt-ncee



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of October 31, 1980)
Loan                                                        Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose         Cancellations   bursed
38 loans fully disbursed                         1,870.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                     Water Supply            90.0        25.0
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                   90.0         8.8
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              47.0        21.6
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0         3.0
1053      1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        35.7
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              50.0        37.0
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                50.0         5.2
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply            40.0        23.8
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                 100.0        39.9
1420       1977  NAFINSA                    Tourism                 42.0        27.5
1462       1977  NAFINSA                    Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        64.6
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 50.0         7.9
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry                47.0        15.5
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture             56.0        46.7
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5        14.2
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               100.0        32.2
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0          10.8
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              25.0         9.7
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.       60.0        58.3
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0       116.2
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                80.0        55.9
1706       1979  NAFINSA                    Irrigation              92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                     Industry               175.0       155.2
1820      1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Mining               40.0        40.0
1858      1980  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             160.0       160.0
1881      1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       100.0
1891      1980  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  325.0         325.0
1908      1980  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              23.0        23.0
TOTAL                                            4,243.9 1/ 1,554.7
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                660.7
Total now outstanding                             3,583.2
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        91.6                  0.7
Total now held by Bank 1/                         3,582.5
Total Undisbursed                                             1,554.7
1/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                               US$ Million
Year          Obligor                    Type of Business       Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/              Industrial Equipment    0.8        --     0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5         --      0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/            Twist Drills              0.3     --      0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.               Steel                    2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/               Steel                    0.9      0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/        Sodium Sulphate           0.7     --      0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --          2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/       Iron Ore Mining           1.5     --      1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.         Textiles                 12.0     --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper              2/       2/     2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                   15.9     --    15.9
1974     Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                   1.0     0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                    12.0     3.2   15.2
1978     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper            9.0     2.6   11.6
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals             19.0     --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/       Cement                  100.0     --   100.0
1979     Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                 Tourism                   --       2.3    2.3
1979     Conductores Monterrey,          Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                         and Cable           18.0     --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard              25.0     --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass                114.9     --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/              Mining                  110.0      --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper            59.5      --    59.5
Total Gross Commitments                                503.3    31.9  535.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                            371.7    22.1  393.8
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      131.6      9.8  141.4
Total Undisbursed (including participants)             317.5       __  317.5
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/  TJS$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
In December 1979, the Executive Directors agreed to amend
the Project Description to include new works which would serve
the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307). Overall, the majority
of the project works as originally defined have been completed
and the physical targets of the project have been achieved.
There are, however, disagreements between SARH and the Comision
de Aguas del Valle de Mexico (CAVM) concerning the need to
carry out works in Presa Madin and the decision by the Govern-
ment not to give priority to the Ecatepec sewage treatment
plant. During a recent programming discussion, the Government
has indicated its intention to seek partial cancellation of the
loan, and no extension of the closing date is envisaged.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date:  May 29, 1974.  Closing Date:  June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is now
satisfactory.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



_ 30-                      ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to inade-
quate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is underway
to adjust for these delays. The closing date has been extended
accordingly.
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Balo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequently
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Bajio Urea Plant is in operation but construction of the
Pajaritos Urea Plant has been delayed mainly because of material
shortages and difficulties with contractors. Construction is
now expected to be complete in March 1981. The Parathion Plant
is to be completed before year-end 1980. The project is, on
average, 2-1/2 years behind schedule. Most of the commissioning
work will take place during the next 6-8 months, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to.increases in equipment
and civil works costs.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with all cities included
in the project, and works are now progressing satisfactorily.
This is the result of several positive measures taken by the
Mexican authorities to accelerate project execution, including
the preparation and implementation of guidelines for project
design and the reorganization of the special project unit in
charge of project execution.
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabiliza-
tion period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing
in 1977, and continued to rise in 1978 and 1979. Works are now
being executed according to a revised investment plan which has
been agreed upon with the Bank. Due to initial delays the
project is expected to be completed by mid-1981, about two-and-
a-half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is slightly behind schedule
due to shortages of building materials in the area now over-
come. An outline for the ecological and environmental study is
being reviewed in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic
as well as North American tourism and the economic study of
tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory,
although difficulties in internal coordination have caused
disbursements to lag behind schedule. Recent communications
with FONATUIR indicate that bottlenecks are being eliminated.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.



- 32 -
ANNEX I1
Page 6 of 8
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Prolect:  $50 million Loan of March 21. 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12. 1979; ClosinR Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. About 80 percent of the loan
have been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979:
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554  Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Pro-ject:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27. 1978: Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30. 1982.
The shelter-related component is having better than expected
results. Satisfactory progress has been obtained for the
training centers, but delays still remain in the implementation
of the productive credits, industrial premises and river control
components and the studies. Steps to speed implementation in
these areas have been recently discussed with the Government.
The possibility of reallocating funds to the shelter-related
components is being contemplated.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. Over 97 percent of the loan has been committed.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
A number of livestock and irrigation subprojects have been
approved by the Bank, and the Government is accelerating
preparation and presentation of the balance of the program.
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979; the 1980 budget is
adequate.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Orders for most of the equipment have been placed and about
30 percent of the construction work is committed with about
22 percent completed. The project is now about 17 months
behind schedule and runs the risk of further delays unless
implementation arrangements are improved. FERTIMEX's management
is considering steps to improve implementation.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness
Date: October 5, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$92.1 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$26.8 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1881   Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of September 29, 1980; Effectiveness Date:
; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980; Effectiveness Date: November 17, 1980:
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Ln. No. 1908   Ocoroni Irrigation Project:  US$23 Million Loan:approved by
the Executive Directors on October 14, 1980 and not yet signed.



-- 3, -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by country to prepare project: about 12 months
(b) Project prepared by: NdeM
(c) First Bank Mission: June 1979
(d) Departure of Appraisal mission: May 1980
(e)  Negotiations completed in:  November 1980
(f) Planned date of effectiveness: March 31, 1981
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
A continuous review of NdeM's operating and financial performance
will be made by the Bank; NdeM's freight car procurement program and the
Government's investment plans for railway infrastructure will be reviewed
yearly.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) NdeM to carry out a Plan of Action aimed at improving its operating
and financial performance, such plan to include quantitative targets
in key operational, technical and financial areas (para. 50).
(b) Nde M to propose periodic tariff adjustments to the Government to permit
it to achieve the financial targets stipulated in the Action Plan. The
Government would authorize such adjustments unless they conflict with
broader national or sectoral objectives (para. 61).
(c) NdeM to periodically examine: (i) passenger train services, (ii) low
density branch lines, (iii) less than carload traffic and (iv) mail
services and request compensation from the Government for losses on
(i), (ii) and (iv) as appropriate. The Government would make such
compensations (para. 62).
(d) NdeM not to incur any debt if the debt/equity ratio, based on revalued
fixed assets, is more than 45/55 (para 63).






080D 3655Ri
OAR                                                                                 -.---------------------1 -tte  \  -                         95v  NILO so  >   J  -    '   '-----=U                              \980
:5       gO"       95 T"' 9    0=5                                                         U. S<lue  Aj  <               ~L f                   <     ~       i -                      >    \
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E X I-' 0 ' '' 
'XX            i,                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~RAILROCADS
,48       00 58                                                                \/
'                                                                  Ti PO'         1               4C       I        Ji 00  9 ;5 .i OALEvTE  I0 s 0588099
V ~  ~    ~    4           9590955 RbChti I.    /       r                    f)        < I\  s-PvS,v/2/P    -alMi 
*  ntwTq ; . L _G0                                                                                                                                                         F 1         ;,,   _
CfARAAL AIFRIAQ
-    X    0 V   X  :                                 :         a    e                <                                               W,                                                    . t9 055909  559*
10t\   irbO OEL     t      i7e;                                tN       ;      7t0=2  %          sf                              /TEt    s               Yf    U       ILi                         \\!
2 > 2 MA See _ %                                                                                                                                                                         > fi R DS\  r 0 ; \ \ t t / k '%-- )AA( "\0 J   958890
APP Y ,,,,ARTR S~__i\AT
to;      4        vSD<-SC4fiW g  ;   [r 0  A  \  t 0  t   i f i   \  0   EaXv        \X         =       2      f      \t       X      tHLs;tPINSU A
. ST.Roc,.= ;stLLf I WEdeL=14ritilse ot dt       S                                :                                                                   I  1o m _,   = w wwj < .   -
_   .               -E4LLTM@CS ;  .   V\V2e9w10tMM(   1F    0  S;         :                                             IC2                         9l4 S  CJ.PI*>WO+>I,     \DS, AE C        C _
09 0055000~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AL



