Document of
The World Bank                                     p Eff
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3078b-ME
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
MEXICO
November 20, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit   =    Peso (Mex$)
US$ 1           =    Mex$ 23.0
Mex$l            =    US$0.043
Mex$ 1 million  =    US$43,000
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 1
System of Weight and Measures: British/US
1 meter (m)            =   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =   0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)        =   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =   2,205 pounds
Abbreviations
ALALC       Latin American Free Trade Association
BANOBRAS    National Bank for Public Works and Service
CN          Constructora Nacional de Mexico
CNCP        Commission for Port Coordination
CTC         Centralized Traffic Control
DGA         General Directorate of Airports, SCT
DGP         General Directorate of Planning, SCT
Hacienda    Secretariat of Finance
IMSS        Mexican Institute of Social Security
N de M      Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Mexico
NAFINSA     National Financing Association
NAP         National Airport Plan
PEMEX       Petroleos Mexicanos
SAHOP       Secretariat of Human Settlements and Public Works
SCT         Secretariat of Communications and Transport
SPP         Secretariat of Programing and Budgeting



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
MEXICO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ..... ................................    I1
A.  General   ............. 0 .......... ..........................              1
B.  The Transport System  ................ .......................    2
C.  Planning and Coordination ... .......... ...........           .........    6
II.   THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR ........,,,,............. .8
A. Background ............... .- .....  8
B.  Organization ....... 0  ...........................-@6@*s--s-dee 10
C.  N de M Mfanagement, Staff and Tfaining .......             ...............   10
D.  Railway Facilities.......... .........* ..* .....*.......    11
E.    Traffic   ........................ . . . . . . . .   0 . .. ..            13
F.  Operations ......................................                     .    15
G.  Tariffs and Costs .........................................    16
H.  Budget, Accounting and Audit             ......................,    19
III.   THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT ......               ......................   20
A.  N de M's Investment Plan ........................               ......    20
B.  The Project and the Proposed Loat ..........................    21
C.  Main Project Items ............................ *...                        22
D.  Cost Estimates .................. ..................    23
E.  Financing Plan .....................................    23
F.  Project Implementation .         .    .     .    ........................   24
G. Plan of Action                       .        .         ............ 24
H. Procurement .            .        .        ................ 26
I.  Disbursement .............................. .....                           27
IV.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION ...............               ..      .......      ......   28
A.  General ....................................................   28
B.  Benefits and Economic Returns ........................... -                 28
C.  Overall Economic Evaluation  ................................e,    30
D.  Sensitivity and Risks ....................................    30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission w*hich visited
Mexico in May 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. }I. Lal (railway engineer),
N. Rasheed (financial analyst), (Ms) K. Sierra (project economist), J. Veniard
(sector economist) and J. Kesson (consultant). The report has been edited by
Miss V. Foster.
This ocurocnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officiai duties. its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
V.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION ..*......... ......*.*   * * * *      .. .' .  .    31
A.  Past Financial Performance .* .................... s ...# ..... *O..    31
B.  Forecast Financial Performance.............................         34
C.  Sensitivity Analysis .... * .................... . .........O-*    38
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION           ...... ..       ....    40
TABLES
1.1  Distribution of Public Investment ......................                42
1.2  Summary of Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode ......    43
2.1  Staff Data - N de M (2 pages) .................... I ......  44-45
2.2  Current Rolling Stock Data .. ..... ..         ........................... .46
2.3  N de M - Freight Traffic 1970-1979 .................... .........       47
2.4  N de M - Freight Traffic Forecasts 1980-1985 ..................         48
2.5  N de M - Passenger Traffic .......      .............................o.   49
2.6  N de M - Operating Statistics .50
3.1 N de M - Investment Program ......                                       51
3.2  SCT Infrastructure Works 1981-1985 (2 pages) ..... ...... ..           52-53
3.3  N de M Project and Bank Loan ...................................    54
3.4  List of Goods to be Financed from Bank Loan .55
3.5  N de M - Track Renovation Program (2 pages) .56-57
3.6  N de M - Locomotive Requirements 1981-1985 .....................    58
3.7  N de M - Freight Car Requirements 1981-1985 (2 pages)                  59-60
3.8  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements .........................           61
4.1 Economic Rates of Return ........ ............    62
5.1  Nde M - Income Statements 1975-1979 ....................           .    63
5.2  N de M - Summary Cash Flow Statements 1976-1979 ................    64
5.3  N de M - Summary Balance Sheets 1976-1979.                              65
5.4  Nde M - Income Statements 1980-1985 ..* ........................    66
5.5  N de M - Cash Flow Statements 1980-1985 ........... ..*67
5.6  Nde M - Balance Sheets 1980-1985 ...................                    68
ANNEXES
1.   N de M Track and Equipment Development o ..................            69-71
2.   N de M Operations Review .      ............................ .......   72-73
3.   Technical Assistance Program - Guidelines  ............ ............   74-75
4.   Details of Financing Plan ..................................... .   76-77
5.   Freight Traffic Forecasts: Rationale ..........................        78-84
6.   Economic Evaluation of the N de M Investment Plan ............         85-93
7.   Economic Evaluation of the SCT Infrastructure Program ..o    J-    94-102
8.   Methodology and Principal Assumptions for the Financial
Forecast (1980-1985) .........................................  103-105
9.   Transfer of Medical and Social Insurance and Pension to
Mexico's Social Security System .................       ........,   106-108
10.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File             109



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
CHART
Chart 1 - Organization Diagram - N de M - World Bank 21793
MAPS
IBRD 3655R1 - Mexico: Railways
IBRD 11844R - N de M Traffic Density






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01     Transport has played an important role in the economic development
of Mexico, and, by the mid-1970s, the transport system was generally adequate.
This system was supported over the years by sufficient public investments (of
about 20% of the total budget) for transport infrastructure in all modes and a
strong, mostly privately financed bus, truck and aviation industry providing
an adequate fleet of vehicles and levels of service. This combination produced
a system with a good modal balance and a capacity to serve the demand.
1.02     The general adequacy of the transport system up to the mid-1970s
called for a policy of selective expansion and modernization as required
to meet the needs of a growing economy and to support Mexi  's strategy of
spatial decentralization of population and economic activit,. However,
relative reductions in transport sector investments since 1973, coupled with
a surge in economic growth and rapidly increasing demand for transport services,
have led to a situation in which the system faces serious bottlenecks. This
situation is already affecting the railway system and backlashing to some of
the ports and the highway system.
1.03     Public investment support to the transport sector decreased after
1973 because of a shift of Government priorities to other sectors under macro-
economic measures for controlling inflation. The share of transport sector
in total public investment dropped to 16.6% in 1974 and to 9.1% by 1979
(a low of about 1% of GNP). In the 1980 budget, it stabilized at about 9.3%.
The years 1977 and 1978 represented a period of real annual reductions in
transport investments, and 1979 and 1980 showed a real growth of 6.4% p.a.,
modest in relation to the growth of total public investment (nearly 14%). The
distribution of investment among the modes has shown a relative shift in the
last few years, with highways diminishing its share from some 65% in the early
1970s to the present 43%. Ports remained relatively constant at some 9% during
the same period, while aviation fluctuated between a low of 4% and its present
high of 13%. Railways' share increased from its level of some 22% in the
early part of the decade to its present level of 35% (Table 1.1).
1.04     Mexico relies upon extensive road and rail networks for its general
transportation needs. Pipelines and coastal shipping are important, but
specialized, while aviation, the most dynamic mode in terms of growth, is
relatively small and highly specialized. In 1978, road transport carried
about 41% of all ton-km generated in the country and about 93% of all pass-km,
while the railways carried about 21% of the ton-km and 3% of the pass-km. The
remaining traffic, consisting for the most part of petroleum products, was
moved by pipelines and coastal shipping, 23% and 15% respectively of all
ton-km generated in the country. Finally, aviation's share of intercity
passenger traffic was about 3% (Table 1.2),



1.05     Traffic grew at about 10% p.a. between 1970 and 1978.  Traffic
increases were experienced by all modes, reflecting the growth of the economy
as indicated by a GDP growth of 5% p.a. in real terms in the same period.
This growth imiplies increasing transport intensity in Mexico, as measured in
ton-km per unit GDP. Transport intensity increased from 2.4 ton-km per unit
GDP in the beginning of the seventies to 3.5 ton-km per unit GDP by 1977. The
Mexican economy has recovered from the 1976-1977 recession, growing at nearly 7%
in 1979, and is expected to achieve a rapid and sustained real growth rate of
8% in the future. Transport is expected to continue growing at the same pace
or faster than GDP in the eighties, and, in the long run, with the emergence
of integrated regional economies consistent with the Government's goal of
spatial decentralization, to start leveling off. For the coming years, the
implications for the transport sector of Mexico's economic growth prospects
would be rapid increases in demand for land transport and selected ports. This
demand would affect, in particular, the railways, which, in order to be able
to meet it through the 1980s, should invest judiciously to expand their
carrying capacity. The financing of such an investment program is the
main objective of the project.
B.   The Transport System
(i) Railways
1.06      The railway subsector is reviewed in detail in Chapter II.
(ii)  Highways and Road Transport
1.07      The road network expanded very rapidly in the last 30 years.  In
1950, there were only 22,500 km of roads in Mexico. By 1978, the network had
grown to 200,000 km, of which 62,000 km or 30% were paved. Between 1950 and
1978, the length of paved roads grew at an annual rate of 6%. The highway
network covers most populated areas of the country adequately. The main
traffic corridors are served by paved roads and, on some of the most heavily
traveled routes, by multi-lane facilities. The development of the main
highway network could be considered to be nearing maturity. In recent years,
increased emphasis has been given to low standard roads in lightly populated
areas. This emphasis led to the construction of an extensive system of
rural roads, which, coupled with the relative decline of budgetary allocations
for highways and the steady increase in the number of vehicles and resulting
traffic volumes, led to the present inadequacy of the main highway network.
Road maintenance has been given low budgetary priority, as reflected in the
old age of the equipment, and there are mounting requirements for rehabilita-
tion and strengthening of existing roads. In addition, high rates of growth
of road transport require the localized expansion of highway capacity to
relieve emerging bottlenecks.
1.08      The availability of an extensive highway network and the rapid
economic expansion in the last decade have strongly stimulated the development
of the vehicle fleet, which grew at 12.5% p.a. over the period 1968-1978.
Automobile ownership has been traditionally high in Mexico in comparison with



- 3 -
other Latin American countries and even with some European countries. 1/
Overall, the level of motorization is about one vehicle per 16 inhabitants.
The geographical distribution of the vehicle fleet reflects the concentration
of economic activity and population in Mexico City, where 35% of the fleet is
registered.
1.09      Trucking services are supplied by a fleet of 1.1 million vehicles.
The fleet has been growing at about 10% p.a. in recent years. Its carrying
capacity has increased even faster because of the shift to larger size trucks
and the incorporation of modern units produced by the rapidly developing
local automobile industry. Bus services are supplied by a much smaller fleet
of some 60,000 vehicles. The road transport industry (trucks and buses)
has expanded and operates in an environment free of economic control (tariffs)
even though other Government regulations on road transport are complicated.
Regulations were enacted as early as 1932, and, from the beginning, they were
directed to control long-distance trucking (federal). It is estimated that
approximately 8% of the total fleet falls into this category and is referred
to as the public freight vehicle fleet. The current trend in Government,
supported by the established transport companies, is to gradually tighten the
enforcement of regulations in other segments of the industry with the objec-
tives of providing improved reliability and geographical distribution of road
transport services and improving the drivers' working conditions. The supply
of trucking services and its tariffs have, in the past, proved to be adequate
and the services satisfactory; in the recent surge of traffic demand, the
trucking industry has generally been able to cope. However, there are growing
indications that, given sustained growth of imports such as grains and oil
industry supplies, it would not be able to manage the overspill if railway
bottlenecks are not removed. An important constraint is the lack of sufficient
trucks. Although the national industry provides some 100,000 new trucks per
year, there is a gap in current needs which might be supplied by direct
imports of fully assembled units.
(iii) Ports
1.10      Port traffic, if petroleum is excluded, is surprisingly small in
spite of Mexico's economic size (GDP of US$94 billion in 1978), perhaps because
of the country's long-standing policies of self-sufficiency and relative
isolation, resulting in comparatively light foreign trade. Furthermore, much
of the foreign trade has been with the US, for which overland routes (railways
and roads) have been used. Shipping transport in Mexico is largely concentrated
on domestic coastal movements, mainly of petroleum. International shipping
deals mostly with the exports of mineral products and petroleum and the imports
of capital goods and grain and food supplies. There are some 30 ports on the
long Mexican coastlines, of which 12 are international ports. Combined, they
handle some 40 million tons of international traffic (1978), of which about
55% consists of petroleum products.
1.11      VTeracruz and Tampico, Mexico's largest ports, moved 1.1 million tons
of general cargo each in 1978, accounting together for some 58% of the total
imported/exported through the 12 principal ports of the country. Most
1/   1978 passenger cars/1,000 population - Mexico, 40; Brazil, 38; Colombia, 32;
Greece, 60; and Turkey, 15.



- 4 -
of this traffic moves through these two gulf ports plus Coatzacoalcos. Main
commodities handled at the ports include, besides petroleum, agricultural dry-
bulk--mostly grain imports--(3.7 million tons in 1979); sulphur (1.8 million
tons); mineral products (1.5 million tons); coal (700,000 tons); tubes and
petroleum equipment (600,000 tons); chemicals, cement and iron (about 500,000
tons each); syrup and molasses (500,000 tons); paper and salt (200,000 tons
each); and bauxite, cotton and sugar (100,000 tons each).
1.12      Port operations and administration were transferred, in 1977,
from the Secretary of the Navy to the Secretary of Transport and Communications
(SCT). A newly established Under Secretary of Ports at SCT is now responsible
for port administration, while port planning is handled by the National
Commission for Port Coordination (CNCP), under the SCT Minister. This transfer
of responsibilities is expected to help streamline and modernize the operations
at some of the ports in order to deal with the surge in economic growth,
increased international trade and large grain imports. Port infrastructure
capacity is generally adequate. However, congestion has recently been expe-
rienced at some of the ports handling grain imports, although the responsibility
seems to lie with insufficient carrying capacity on the part of the land
transport systems servicing those ports more than with the ports themselves.
1.13      Coordination among shippers, consignees and the ports was not
adequate, at the time of high volumes of grain imports, to prevent the bunch-
ing of ship arrivals. This shortcoming, together with an already saturated
system in critical parts of the railways (para 2.12) and a shortage of trucks
(which were called to supply peak capacity for a traffic which was normally
carried by rail), combined to produce the congestion. CNCP has worked actively
on short-term remedial measures. A coordinating committee of ports, railways
and large shippers, fostering advanced planning on shipping, handling and
inland transport of imported commodities, has been successful in relieving
the situation.
1.14      In the long run, the railway investment plans for infrastructure
(para 3.02) and for equipment and facilities financed under this project
(para. 3.01) are designed to remove the capacity constraints. On the port
side, in order to cope with grain imports and the general traffic increases,
a study of port capacity and a resulting program for the years 1981-1982 are
being prepared by CNCP in coordination with SCT's General Directorate of
Planning (DGP). The 1979-1980 domestic grain production 1/ has been excep-
tionally low because of extensive droughts resulting in high import levels
(expected at 10.5 million tons in 1980), and, in future years, it is expected
that grain imports would be at levels more similar to those in 1979 (4.5 mil-
lion tons), easing port congestion and leaving sufficient time for port invest-
ments and capacity expansions, wvhich may be indicated by this study, to develop.
1.15      The Government is also paying attention to the port system in
connection with a regional development plan which calls for the shift of
population and economic activity away from the central plateau to the coastal
areas. The development of industrial port growth poles is part of this strategy.
Highest priority is given to accelerating growth in the zones comprising four
industrial ports - Tampico-Altamira, Coatzacoalcos, Lazaro Cardenas and Salina
Cruz - where port facilities are being planned for construction beginning in 1980.
1/   Normally of about 18 million tons/year.



-5-
(iv) Air Transport
1.16      Mexico's extensive area, rugged topography and the considerable
distances separating a number of its population and commercial centers have
made air transport an important element in the country's transport system; it
also connects the country interregionally and internationally. Domestic
passenger traffic has been growing at a high rate: 17.4% p.a. for the period
1970-1978 (Table 1.2), reaching a level of over 14 million passengers (domestic
and international) in that year. On the other hand, the relative participation
of freight cargo in domestic traffic is minimal, reflecting the high freight
rates of air transport in comparison with competing modes as well as the
aircraft carrying capacity limitations due to high altitude at several key
airports. Airport infrastructure is, in general, well developed, with some
50 airports capable of handling medium or larger size aircraft. The Mexico
City airport accounts for about 40% of the total commercial passenger traffic
and 55% of the air cargo.
1.17      Increases in traffic and the incorporation of larger aircraft
on domestic routes have recently resulted in existing facilities in several
airports becoming inadequate. Runway extensions, new or larger terminal
buildings, navigational and communications equipment and improved utilities
are needed. Some of the airports are located in heavily populated areas
unsuitable for expansion and have to be relocated. Even plans for relocating
the lIexico City airport are under active consideration.
1.18      A National Airport Plan (NAP), developed in 1964 by a Government-wide
committee, has provided, with modifications, the framework for airport develop-
ment until the present. On this basis, a five-year (1980-1985) airport invest-
ment plan was formulated by the General Directorate of Airports (DGA) of the
Secretary of Human Settlements and Public Works (SAHOP). Some of the relative
priorities in this plan were questioned by SCT and its General Directorate of
Civil Aviation as not responding to the most pressing operational needs. A
document defining the policies and priorities for airport programs was then
prepared by SCT, and a Committee of the Secretaries of SCT, SAHOP and Budgeting
and Programing (SPP) reformulated SAHOP's program for 1980, calling for invest-
ments to satisfy the demand up to 1985 at ten airports, in particular those of
Mexico, Guadalajara, Monterrey and Cancun. Except for works already approved
in 1979, it seems that the SAHOP plan has been shelved and that the control
for the planning and formulation of future investment plans would rest in the
hands of the Secretaries' Committee with strong participation of SCT, which
has already advanced in the preparation of an investment program for 1981-1982.
(v) Pi2elines
1.19      Pipelines account for a large share of petroleum and refined products
transport in the country. 1/ There are about 5,300 km of crude oil pipelines
in operation or under construction, 6,300 km of refined products pipelines and
about 9,300 km of gas pipelines in the trunk system. All are owned and
operated by PEMEX, the state oil enterprise. The oil pipelines connect the
oil fields and refineries to the export ports and the central plateau area.
1/   In 1978, pipelines moved 56% of the total petroleum and products ton-km;
zoastal shipping, 33%; trucks, 8%; and railways, 3%.



-6-
They are largely concentrated in the Gulf Coast area of Tuxpan and Tampico,
the state of Tabasco, where they connect with the large export terminal at
Pajaritos, near Coatzacoalcos, and across the Tehuantepec Isthmus. Domestic
consumption of products is served by coastal ships originating at Salina Cruz
on the Pacific and Pajaritos, Veracruz, Tuxpan and Tampico on the Gulf. The
vast network of products and gas pipelines is designed to serve the consumption
of main urban centers (such as Mexico City and Guadalajara) and, through ongoing
expansions, the Yucatan Peninsula and the Pacific coast. There are plans to
expand the network of pipelines, with some 6,700 km currently under study (of
which 4,300 km are gas pipelines).
C.   Planning and Coordination
1.20      Investment decisions for most public transport expenditures are made
within the overall Government planning and budgeting sys4m framework.  SPP
has been responsible, since its establishment in 1977, for this activity. SPP
is basically responsible for three areas: (a) yearly Government budget
preparation; (b) Government-wide planning and programing; and (c) evaluation
and control. Early this year, SPP produced its first economic plan (Plan
Global de Desarrollo, 1980-1982), several years after the last major effort
in this area. The Plan Global was adopted by decree on April 15, 1980;
it is to be followed by a detailed Programa de Accion del Sector Publico
(PASP) to be published in October 1980. The Plan reflects the strengthened
National Planning System with SPP, in coordination with the Secretary of
Finance and Credit (Hacienda), assuming the global planning role, and the
other, specialized, Government Secretaries, with the various state agencies
and para-state entities in their area, assuming the sectoral planning respon-
sibilities. This arrangement is being complemented by the regional planning
effort of the state governments.
1.21      In the transport sector, the leadership of SCT in planning matters
is being established gradually in accordance with the objectives of the admin-
istrative reforms of 1976 and the sectoralization of the public administration.
SAIIOP is responsible for the planning of highways and related investments.
For others, such as Aeromexico, the Government-owined carrier, the investment
plans are normally approved by SCT. Overall, however, all transport invest-
ments are still scrutinized together in SPP. The role of SCT has been to
prepare multi-year perspective plans for investments, aside from its responsi-
bility for the annual budget request. The last plan of this type is the
"Lineamientos de Politica, Metas y Estrategia, 1978-1982," published by SCT at
the end of 1978. It contains a comprehensive definition of sectoral and sub-
sectoral policies and objectives and tentative investment plans. This document
has served as a basis for the formulation of the Plan Global 1980-1982; it is
supported by other subsectoral documents on policy and objectives and modal
development programs prepared by SCT, such as the Program for Road Transport,
March 1980; Problems and Perspectives of Railway Transport, May 1979; Policies
and Program for the Merchant Marine, June 1979; and Airport Infrastructure
Program, February 1980.
1.22      The Plan Global contains recommendations for transport policies and
development strategies which are reflected in the formulation of the budget
(Presupuesto de Egresos de la Federacion - PEF) for 1980. Overall, transport
sector investments would grow 11.5% p.a. in real terms (1980-1982), reflect-
ing its designation as a priority sector, together with agriculture and welfare.



- 7 -
Within the transport sector, investments are planned in the railways, with a
program for new construction and realignment of existing lines and yards
(para 3.02) as well as track rehabilitation and equipment acquisition (para 3.01),
to be supported by this project. For roads, the emphasis is on the moderniza-
tion and reconstruction of high priority sections (supported by the Bank's
Highway Sector Project) as well as bridges. For ports, the modernization of
some ports by construction of container terminals (at Veracruz, Coatzacoalcos
and Salina Cruz) and grain storage and handling facilities, together with the
construction of four industrial ports, is planned (para 1.13). In air transport,
the modernization and reconstruction of ten airports (para 1.16) and the acqui-
sition of aircraft for Aeromexico are anticipated.
1.23      In the areas of transport policy and coordination, particularly on
matters such as tariffs, road user charges, regulation and intermodal transport,
SCT has traditionally dedicated great effort. These areas cover several impor-
tant issues which have, Ln the past, been mentioned in connection with Bank
lending in the sector. These issues gain special importance in the light of
the strong economic growth and larger sectoral investments which are planned
for the next several years. In particular, the pricing issue reflects an
acute problem in both the railways, as it burdens a well run and relatively
efficient system with heavy subsidies (US$160 million in 1979), and in road
transport, as it provides road vehicles with underpriced fuel 1/ and low or
almost no charges made for using the road system, while some reconstruction
and modernization efforts face being postponed because of fund shortages.
A clear tendency of these subsidies is to encourage more transport demand,
both road and rail, than would otherwise be the case. In regard to the
regulation of the trucking industry, much remains to be done toward understand-
ing the impact of such regulations. The Government's desire to improve the
efficiency and distribution of trucking services is a supportable objective
(para 1.09).
1.24      The pricing and regulatory issues, fully understood by the Government,
are inherited from the past and are difficult to tackle because of the size
and complexity of the country and the economy together with a political system
1/   The retail prices of diesel fuel and gasoline (regular) are Mex$ 1.00/liter
and Mex$ 2.80/liter respectively.  "Super" gasoline, which accounts for
only 6% of all gasoline sales, retails at Mex$ 7.00/liter. Wh1ile there is
no direct diesel fuel tax, the retail price of regular gasoline includes
a tax of Mex$ 0.70/liter. The equivalent export prices (1980) for these
fuels are estimated at Mex$ 5.20/liter for diesel fuel and Mex$ 5.80/liter
for regular gasoline. Consumption by the transport sector is estimated
at 15.4 billion liters of regular gasoline and 7.9 billion liters of
diesel in 1980. These levels of consumption imply potential revenue
foregone by the Mexican Government of about Mex$ 79 billion in 1980
(US$3.5 billion). Potential revenue foregone is measured as the export
price less the domestic retail price, multiplied by consumption.



- 8 -
that seeks consensus among interested parties. The Bank-financed Highway
Sector Project (Loan 1671-ME, August 1979) would promote rational policies
that affect the highway subsector, in particular concerning road transport
regulations and road user charges. The loan provides for periodic joint reviews
among the Bank, SCT and SPP on these matters. A major policy statement has
been included in the recent Plan Global, indicating that the prices and
tariffs of the goods and services produced by the public sector would be
revised and updated and the subsidies reoriented toward those social and
economic sectors for which they are most needed. These actions would be
in accordance with the following criteria: (a) prices should cover the
direct production costs; (b) prices should, additionally, permit the accumula-
tion of savings for the purpose of investment; and (c) prices should be
adequate to support the development of the economy and social welfare. In
particular, with reference to the transport sector, the stated policy is to
modify "gradually" the road user charges in order to be able to recover, in
the medium-term, infrastructure investments as well as road maintenance
expenditures, while seeking to promote the efficient use of the facilities.
As for the railways, the stated policy is to raise tariffs to nearly the full
cost of the services provided in order to bring about the elimination of
subsidies.
II. THE RAILWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   Background
2.01      Nacionales de Mexico (N de M) is the largest of the five separate
Government-owned railways; their extent is indicated below and shown on
Map IBRD 3655R1:
Standard      Narrow
Gauge        Gauge
(1,435 m)    (0.914 m)   Total         %
Nacionales de Mexico       14,121           90       14,211      71
Del Pacifico                2,310            -        2,310      11
Chihuahua al Pacifico       1,509            -        1,509       8
Sonora Baja California        610            -          610       3
Unidos del Sureste             927         424        1,351       7
Total                      19,477          514       19,991    100
2.02      A major portion of the traffic (80%) is carried by N de M, whereas
del Pacifico, the second largest, carries about 14%. The other three railways
are, to a large extent, long branch lines feeding into the main Nacionales and
Pacifico systems (see map). Rolling stock and motive power are interchanged
through five main junctions.
2.03      In January 1977, a Government decree authorized the integration of
the five railway enterprises into a single operating unit, and this process is
being accomplished gradually. The first phase of the unification has so far
been carried out; management has been entrusted to a single board under the
control of a single General Manager. The President of N de M has taken over
as the General Manager of all the railways, and the new management board
consists of the Secretary for Communications and Transport as chairman and the
Secretaries for Agriculture, Commerce and Industry, Finance and Programs



- 9 -
and Budget, as well as representatives of the labor unions, as members. Since
working rules and labor regulations differ on the five railway systems, it
is necessary, before the complete integration of the railways into N de M
can be carried out, to have (a) an agreement with each of the labor unions
concerned and (b) a legal decree setting out in detail the basis on which the
integration will take place. These processes have been nearly completed for
Unidos del Sureste, which will be the first railway to join N de M. The next
two railways to follow will be the Sonora Baja California and the Chihuahua al
Pacifico, and finally the Del Pacifico, which is the largest of the other
systems outside N de M.   Accounting systems differ from one railway to the
other. Some of them are fully computerized and are more advanced than that
of N de M. The impact of the amalgamation on N de M's finances will be very
small. The operating ratios are different for each railway, e.g., for
Unidos del Sureste, it was 140 for 1979 against N de M's L34 and against all
railways' 139. The advantages from the amalgamation will 3e the optimum use
of equipment, lower operating costs and administrative expenses and lower
number of employees. Existing different systems of operations, salaries and
wages, accounting and reporting will continue until final amalgamation. The
entire process, including unification of operating practices, administration,
accounts, etc., is expected to be completed within the next five years.
2.04      Three Bank-financed projects, one for Ferrocarril del Pacifico
and two for N de M, have helped to finance important rehabilitation and
modernization works such as track renovation, strengthening of bridges and
purchase of motive power and rolling stock. The first loan (103-ME) of
US$61 million for the rehabilitation and modernization of Ferrocarril del
Pacifico was made in 1954, and the works were completed successfully in the
late fifties. The second loan (825-ME) of US$75 million for the rehabilitation
of N de M was made in 1972 and completed in 1977. The Project Completion
Report for this project concluded that its main objectives, i.e., the rehab-
ilitation of N de M's operations and the improvement of its organization and
management, were largely achieved, although financial performance was below
appraisal targets, mainly because of inadequate tariff increases. The overall
economic rate of return at 20% was better than the appraisal estimate of 18%.
The third railway loan was made in 1976, and the works are being executed now
in accordance with an investment plan which was revised in 1979 in consultation
with the Bank. The project is expected to be completed in 1981 and has
included important modernization works such as the installation of a telecom-
munications network on N de M, modern yard and tra'in control systems and the
introduction of unit train operations. As in the Second Railway Project,
performance with respect to implementation of important covenants has been
good except for tariff increases. However, the Mexican Government has, in
recent years, shown a greater awareness of the need for cost-based tariff
increases, and there has been a substantial improvement in this field
(para 5.06). Improvements in technical and operational areas continue, and
the Government of Mexico has now requested that a fourth railway loan be
considered to augment the carrying capacity of the railway to meet increasing
traffic demands (paras 2.17 to 2.21 following) and to continue the development
of N de M toward becoming a more efficient and financially viable railway
system.



- 10 -
B. Organization
2.05      N de M is a state enterprise under the supervision of SCT.  It is
responsible for the operation of the railway and has the authority to approve
its internal organization and regulate its affairs. As prescribed by its
charter, N de M has considerable autonomy in its management. However, the
Government exercises a substantial degree of control over N de M in the
review of its investment plans, tariff levels, and annual operating and
capital budgets. Government policy toward N de M has been a key factor
in determining tariff levels, staff numbers and salaries and the level and
quality of investments.
2.06      SCT is responsible for large scale construction works such as new
lines, marshaling yards and major realignment works, which are then passed on
to the users (the railways) for operation. Thus, SCT not only reviews the
programs and plans of the operating enterprises but also prepares its own
budget for railway infrastructure works. In preparing and implementing its
programs for railway infrastructure investment, SCT consults regularly with
N de M, both to ensure proper coordination and to take advantage of technical
expertise within N de M. The overall plans are, thereafter, analyzed and
approved by SPP. Since 1979, a Tripartite Commission headed by the Controller
General for Accounts in SCT and consisting of the External Auditors and the
Finance Director of N de M has been entrusted with the responsibility of over-
seeing the financial performance of N de M. This commission has done good
work in its initial year; its achievements include, in general, the promotion
of greater cost consciousness in the management of N de M and, in particular,
the revaluation of N de M's assets for the first time in its history.
C.   N de M Management, Staff and Training
2.07      The present management organization of N de M is shown in Chart 1.
The day-to-day operations are the responsibility of the Departmental Managers
whose work is coordinated by a Deputy General Manager working directly under
the control of the General Manager. As integration of the smaller railways
into N de M progresses, these systems will be taken over as divisions of
N de M.
2.08      A study of its manpower requirements was made by N de M as part of
the ongoing third railway project; after review by the Bank, and subsequent
changes, the manpower projections (up to 1982) were considered to be generally
satisfactory to the Bank. Staff data for N de M are given in Table 2.1. It
is seen that, between 1970 and 1979, the traffic carried by N de M increased
by 55%, whereas the staff increased by 6%. The productivity per worker
increased from 366,000 units 1/ in 1970 to 532,000 units in 1979. These
figures compare favorably with those for other railway systems, including the
leading European railways. During the third railway project, particularly
during the years 1976-1978, considerable tightening up of staff needs was
achieved. This accomplishment and other improvements such as unit trains and
1/   Freight net ton-km plus pass-km (Table 2.1, page 1).



- 11 -
the introduction of the telecommunications network are now beginning to show
positive results. Productivity per worker is expected to go up to 603,000
units in the year 1980, to 617,000 in 1981 and to 649,000 in 1982. A small
increase in staff is envisaged, mainly because of additional lines and yards
under construction, but, on the other hand, the N de M medical staff will be
transferred to the social security system (para 2.09 following). As part of
the Plan of Action for the fourth railway project, N de M agreed during
negotiations to update the Manpower Plan to the year 1985 (para 3.10).
2.09      One of the major staff problems confronting N de M has been the
large number of pensionable staff. Since 1976, N de M has been negotiating
with the Government Department for Social Security (IMSS) on the subject of
transfer of N de M's pension and medical scheme to the social security system.
These negotiations have now reached the final stage, and it is expected that
the terms and conditions for the transfer will be finalized before the next
revision of the contract with the labor unions. N de M foresees that, with
the proposed transfer, the hitherto intractable problem of the superannuated
staff will be resolved. In addition, the transfer of the medical services to
IMSS will involve the movement of 2,720 medical staff to IMSS, the reduction
of the projected staff strength of N de M from 63,579 to 60,859 in 1982, and
the consequent improvement in the productivity per worker from 649,000 to
678,000 traffic units.
2.10      N de M has a large and well managed training establishment which has
organized programs for training at principal railway centers and through
schools and correspondence courses for (a) maintenance of way and structures;
(b) operation of stations, yards, trains and locomotives; (c) maintenance of
locomotives and rolling stock; and (d) general administration, including
training courses for railway officials at the middle-management level. The
training institute also responded to the training needs for new technologies
such as telecommunications and developed excellent courses in the operation
and maintenance of telecommunications equipment. During the past few years,
the N de M training institute has also organized special training courses to
cater to the specific training needs of other Latin American railweys which
have been using N de M's facilities to an increasing extent.
D.   Railway Facilities
(i) Track
2.11      N de M operates approximately 14,211 route-km of railway, of wt. h
the principal traffic routes, which carry 90% of total traffic, total about
7,600 km (Map IBRD 3655R1). On these routes, N de M has been carrying out a
program of selective track renewal, using heavy rail with welded rail joints
and elastic type fastenings, supported on concrete sleepers and new stone
ballast; the objective is to provide an improved standard of track for sections
where important increases of traffic are taking place and also where heavier
locomotives and freight cars are now in use. Secondary lines are being
renovated with rails released from the main routes. In addition, the mainte-
nance of the track, especially on the renovated and improved sections, is
being steadily improved by a mechanization program, started under previous
projects, which calls for increasing use of track machinery and a regrouping



- 12 -
of the labor forces. Further data about N de M track and equipment are given
in Annex 1. N de M has demonstrated its ability to carry out the track
program in a timely and efficient manner.
2.12      The principal lines between the seaports and the central plateau
were built in the 19th century with steep gradients and sharp curves which now
present operating and maintenance problems under the progressively increasing
tonnages of traffic. On these and some other heavily used routes, capacity
constraints have arisen, and a major program of grade and curvature realign-
ments is under way to remove bottlenecks, to improve speeds and generally to
increase line capacity. This infrastructure program, which has been developed
jointly by N de M and SCT, will be executed by SCT during the years 1981-1985.
(ii) Motive Power and Rolling Stock
2.13      The N de M system is wholly diesel-operated and has approximately
1,160 locomotives in its fleet. Apart from the provision of additional
locomotives to cater to the increasing traffic, N de 2I has also been replacing
its old and smaller horsepower locomotives with heavier units in keeping
with its policy of increasing train loads. The 1981-1985 investment plan
envisages the purchase of about 72 main line locomotives in 1981 and another
60 per year in 1982-1985 to cater to additional traffic and to replace older
units no longer economical to maintain. With the progressive increase in
traffic and longer trains, it has also become necessary to acquire heavier
shunting locomotives for the marshaling yards, and 50 shunters of 2,000 horse-
power each are being acquired to improve yard performance.
2.14      The N de M freight car fleet totaled about 32,100 units at the end
of 1979; in addition, considerable use is being made of hired foreign cars,
which enter the country carrying imports from the US, and tank cars for oil
traffic are mostly owned or leased by the state oil enterprise PEMEX. The
N de M fleet is relatively modern and of good design. The 1981-1985 program,
for additional cars to accommodate increasing traffic, envisages the purchase
of about 3,100 freight cars per year over the period. The passenger car stock
totals 1,300, of which some 50% are 30-40 years old; however, apart from the
200 new cars purchased under the Third Railway Project, N de M has not made
any further provision for replacement of passenger cars in the 1981-1985
investment plan, nainly because priority is being given to augmentation of
capacity for carrying freight. Details of the present N de M locomotives and
rolling stock fleet are given in Table 2.2.
(iii) Workshops
2.15      N de M's major workshops are at Aguas Calientes (for freight cars
and passenger coaches) and at San Luis Potosi (for diesel locomotives).
Smaller workshops at Guadalajara, Monterrey, Ciudad Frontera, Matiss Romero,
Jalapa Apizaco and Torreon take care of the intermediate and minor repairs.
During the last few years, N de M has been providing the workshops with modern
equipment, partly financed from the ongoing Bank loan (1232-ME). The workshops
are generally well organized, but, whereas rolling stock availability has been
maintained at satisfactory levels, there was a marked deterioration in locono-
tive availability during the past two years, leading to a progressively declin-
ing rate of utilization of locomotives. The situation is being tackled by



- 13 -
(a) tightening up the maintenance organization; (b) scrapping over-aged locomo-
tives; and (c) purchasing new locomotives, including shunters. On the
suggestion of the Bank, N de M has also engaged the services of a consultant
(TOPS-ON-LINE (USA)) for an investigation into the maintenance and workshop
practices. This study is financed from the ongoing Bank loan (1232-ME) and is
expected to provide useful analysis and guidance to N de M since TOPS-ON-LINE
has been associated with N de M for several years and is familiar with the
strengths and weaknesses of the system.
(iv) Signaling and Telecommunications
2.16      The highlight of the Third Railway Project was the installation of
a modern telecommunications system comprising a VHF/UHF network spanning the
entire railway network; the installation is expected to be completed by the
end of 1981. In addition, computerized yard and train control systems have
been introduced on N de M with the aid of consultants TOPS- '-LINE and Missouri
Pacific (USA). Centralized traffic control (CTC) has so fai been provided on
950 route-km, and future plans cover extension of this system to lines carrying
the highest traffic densities. With the completion of a modern communications
system, priority will be given, in future years, to the development of an
integrated Management Information System (para 3.06).
E.   Traffic
(i) Freight Traffic
2.17      N de M's freight traffic grew from 38.3 million tons and 18.1 billion
ton-km in 1970 to 54.8 million tons and 30.1 billion ton-km in 1979 (Table 2.3).
Average growth rates over this period were 4.0% p.a. and 5.8% p.a. respectively,
with ton-km growing faster than tons as average hauls increased from 472 km in
1970 to 549 km in 1979. Between 1970 and 1975, traffic grew at an accelerated
rate of 6.4% p.a. and 8.4% p.a. in terms of tons and ton-km respectively.
Traffic declined in 1976 with the general recession in the Mexican economy,
recovering in 1977-1978. By 1979, after the Government's stabilization
program and major oil discoveries, Mexico had recovered from its economic
downturn, and the demand for transport surged. However, inadequate railway
investment over the 1970s, particularly investment cuts in 1977 and 1978,
coupled with the increased demand for rail transport, led to a crisis in 1979,
with N de M unable to meet demand. The short-run bottlenecks experienced
in 1979 and 1980 are being tackled vigorously (para 2.23), and N de M is
prepared for an important recovery in 1981. Strong traffic growth is antici-
pated over the coming years as the stage is being set for rapid and sustained
real growth rates in the Mexican economy of around 8% from 1980 on.
2.18      The most important group of commodities, in terms of ton-km, carried
by N de M consists of intermediate industrial products (cement, fertilizers,
sugar, petrochemicalo, and steel) which represented 38.5% of total ton-km in
1979 as compared to 31.J% in 1970. Mineral products represented 26.9%,
agricultural products, 18.4% and inorganic products, 8.7% of ton-km in 1979.
Petroleum products, increasingly carried by pipelines, have declined in terms
of the total share of railway traffic (11.4% in 1970 to 6.0% in 1979) as well
as in absolute terms. The main commodities carried in 1979, in order of
importance in terms of ton-km, were iron ore (17.6%), fertilizers (6.0%),
sozghum (5.3%), cement (3.7%), wheat (3.3%), crude oil (3.3%) and corn (3.0%).



- 14 -
2.19      Traffic is concentrated on three major lines, two running south
from the US border to Mexico City and the third from Mexico City to Manzanillo.
A fourth corridor, Veracruz and Coatzacoalcos to Mexico City, is of increasing
importance. In 1977, the Mexico City-Nuevo Laredo line handled the most ton-km
in the system, carrying 7.0 billion ton-km, or 24% of the total traffic. Second
in importance is the Mexico City-Ciudad Juarez line, with 4.6 billion ton-km
(16%), and third is Irapuato-Manzanillo, with 3.3 billion ton-km (12%).
Together, these three lines carry 52% of the total traffic, while representing
27% of the network. Traffic is dense on the lines radiating from Mexico City,
with a high of 12 million net tons per year between Mexico City and Lecheria,
dropping to about 8 million tons on the sections from Lecheria north to
Saltillo. The Celaya-Queretaro-Irapuato sections have the second highest
traffic densities, ranging between 8 and 10 million net tons in 1979 (Map
IBRD-1 1844R).
2.20      It is expected that traffic growth will be rapid and sustained over
the coming years as the economy as a whole is stimulated by oil production and
exports. In particular, expected economic growth over the 1980-1985 period of
around 8% in real terms will mean greater traffic growth than that experienced
in the seventies when Mexico's growth rate fell from about 6% p.a. in real
terms in the early part of the decade to less than 2% during the recession years
of 1976-1977. The implications of this growth on rail traffic are discussed
in Annex 5. Over the forecast period (1979-1985), freight tonnage is expected
to increase by 6.6% p.a. to about 80 million tons, and ton-km by 7.3% p.a.
to 46 billion ton-km (Table 2.4). After 1985, traffic is expected to grow at
about 4.6% in terms of tons and 5% in ton-km, which is closer to the historical
long-term growth trend. The average length of haul is expected to increase,
reaching 571 km by 1985. The most important feature of the expected traffic
is the sharp increase in grain traffic (with unusually high traffic in 1980)
due to a heavy program of grain imports from the United States. Agricultural
traffic is expected to increase by 6.9% p.a. in terms of ton-km between 1979
and 1985. Mineral traffic is also expected to be dynamic, growing 9.1% in
tons and 12.2% in ton-km. Industrial products are forecast to grow at 6.2%
p.a., with fertilizers showing the strongest increases. These traffic fore-
casts were prepared by N de M and revised by the mission during appraisal;
they were based on market studies for 36 commodity groups which comprise 88%
of the railway traffic. Total national traffic was estimated on the basis of
the traffic derived from national production and imports. These estimates
were then related to projected railway traffic shares for each commodity. 1/
For the remaining commodities, traffic was projected using regression analysis
1/   For many commodities, rail's share of the total traffic is expected to
decline relative to that of road. The most significant departures from
current trends are expected in foodgrains, iron ore and limestone. The
railway is expected to increase its share, relative to road, of total
foodgrain movement as imports, which are handled almost exclusively by
rail, become more important as a source of national supply. The railway
will maintain its dominance in land transport of iron ore, but will lose
ground in total transport of this commodity since imports through ports
will play an increasing role in steel production. Limestone transport
will not grow at the same pace as cement as plants increasingly locate
near sources of primary materials.



- 15 -
in which railway traffic was related to appropriate macroeconomic indicators,
such as GDP. Traffic demand in ton-km was then forecast by commodity by
applying estimates of average lengths of haul which, for some commodities, are
expected to be different from present averages. To obtain line densities, the
tonnages were distributed by commodity along the lines in the same proportions
as exist at present with the exception of iron ore, coal, coke and fertilizer
traffic, for which commodity origin and destination matrices were projected
individually.
2.21      The issue of N de M's competitive position with respect to freight
traffic is often raised since (a) both Mexico's road and rail networks are well
developed and (b) presently both rail and long haul trucking are subsidized.
While this latter fact may result in the purchase of more transport services
than would be the case if transport were charged its resource cost, there is
no evidence that there are serious intermodal distortions within Mexico. In
assessing the impact of Liiese facts, it is necessary to consider that the
existing highway network is parallel to all the major rail links. Thus,
shippers have been offered alternative road and rail services for some time
and have, for the most part, adjusted their operations to a modal choice based
on a combination of service characteristics and tariffs. An added dimension
is the fact that the Government, through ownership of the foodgrain distributor
(CONASUPO), the fertilizer industry (FERTIMEX), part of the iron and steel
industry (AHMSA and SICARTSA) and the petroleum industry (PEMEX), has a great
deal of control over the modal choice for the inputs and outputs of these
industries. With the notable exception of PEMEX, the great bulk of the
traffic associated with these industries moves by rail. Long haul bulk
traffic - especially foodgrains, coal, coke, iron ore, fuel oil, fertilizer
and cement - form the rail freight traffic base. Of these products, only
cement is in the private sector, and it moves by rail as a matter of choice.
These bulk commodities move long distances in large quantities, and their
movement by rail is appropriate.
(ii) Passenger
2.22      In the last decade, passenger traffic has declined by 6% p.a. from
33.2 million passengers in 1970 to 18.7 million by 1979. Because average
distances traveled increased from 103 km in 1970 to 176 km in 1979, the
decline in terms of passenger-km has been considerably less marked, averaging
0.5% during this period (Table 2.5). The decline in passenger traffic can be
attributed in part to the expansion of public road transport and private
automobile ownership. A more important factor, however, was the reduction by
43% of all passenger services between 1974 and 1978.  N de M is currently
carrying out a study of passenger train services which will form the basis for
policy recommendations on the subject to the Government (para 5.03). Pending
the results of this study, N de M has tentatively forecast that passenger
traffic will remain constant over the plan period. This forecast is considered
reasonable.
F.   Operations
2.23      A summary of N de M's principal operating statistics for the years
1970-1979 is given in Table 2.6. A review of operating performance of N de H1
in recent years is given in Annex 2. Overall, the operational targets set in



- 16 -
the Plan of Action under Loan 1232-ME were mostly achieved by 1976-1977.
Following these years, even though N de M continued to have progressively
higher levels of traffic, operating performance declined because of the
slowdown in the Government investment program during 1977-1978 and an unpre-
cedented upsurge in freight traffic in late 1978 and in 1979 due to renewed
economic activity. These occurrences, in turn, led to the excessive utiliza-
tion of locomotives at the expense of the scheduled program maintenance,
resulting in deterioration of locomotive availability, an increase in freight
car turnaround time and general congestion on the system. A renewed drive to
tighten up maintenance practices with the assistance of consultants (para 2.15)
and an integrated program for the scrapping of old locomotives, coupled with
the purchase of new locomotives, are already improving locomotive availability
and are expected to improve it steadily in the coming years (para 3.10).
Capacity constraints not directly related to the short-run problem of locomo-
tive availability are emerging, at the same time, as a serious problem. An
analysis of the operations of the railway over the last few years indicated
that, as traffic levels increased, capacity constraints developed in the
traffic yards and in certain mainline sections over the system. Congestion
levels in the major yards at Valle de Mexico, Monterrey and Guadalajara have
been increasing, and, although the installation of computerized yard control
systems improved the performance and fluidity of the yards substantially, the
need for creation of new traffic yards to cater to the increasing volumes of
traffic in recent years has become manifest. On the main lines, the sharp
curves and steep gradients of a railway system built largely in the latter
part of the 19th century emerged as a major constraint to the higher speeds
and loads made possible by modern diesel locomotives and freight cars. Thus,
an SCT infrastructure construction program for the realignment of lines and
the construction of new mechanized yards, which had been in gestation over the
past several years, became urgent and has been included in the SCT construction
program for the years 1981-1985. This program (para 3.02 and Annex 7) is
aimed at removing the capacity constraints in a timely manner and at providing
additional capacity to move the greater volumes of traffic projected for the
future.
G.   Tariffs and Costs
2.24      The rail tariffs are regulated by the Director General of Tariffs in
SCT. Proposals for increases in tariffs are originated by N de M and are
considered and recommended by the Special Committee of Prices and Tariffs and
SCT's Consultative Committee on Tariffs. 1/ The Director General of Tariffs
makes the final decision, which is published in The Official Journal. For
1/   The Special Committee is made up of representatives of the Secretariates
of Industry and Commerce (Head of the Committee), Finance, Labor and
Patrimonio Nacional. The function of the Committee is to control prices
and tariffs. The Consultative Committee is part of SCT and is appointed
by the Secretary of SCT. The head of this Committee is the Director
General of Tariffs in SCT. This Committee, which includes representa-
tives of the Government and private industry, presents its recommenda-
tions to SCT on railway tariffs.



- 17 -
15 years (1960 to 1974), the Mexican Government practically froze railway
tariffs. Since 1975, SCT's tariff strategy has been cost-oriented. In
addition to substantial tariffs increases, the Government, in 1975, restruc-
tured tariffs to cover variable costs and a contribution of fixed costs and
introduced uniform tariffs across the country. Between 1975 and 1979,
tariffs have been increased as follows:
Tariff Increases            Consumer        N de M's Salary
Year    Month       Freight    Passenger        Price Index           Increases
(%)         (M)         (% increase p.a.)          (M)
1975  (Feb.)          44          22                15.2                 16
1976  (Sept./Dec.)   38           20                15.8                 27
1977                  0           0                28.9                 10
1978  (Jan.)          15       19 (2nd class)       17.5                 12
23 (lst class)
1979  (Feb.)          15.5        15.5              18.0                 15
1980  (March)         29.03       20                24.0                 25 (est)
Cumulative (Freight
and Passenger)          245.0                    295.0                260.0
These tariff increases are substantial and represent a significant improvement
in the Government's policy in recent years.  However, the revenues were not
sufficient to absorb cost increases because of insufficient and delayed actions
on tariff increases between 1975 and 1980. Furthermore, the tariffs on some
important commodities, whose traffic growth has been relatively higher, have
been reclassified downward,resulting in lower revenues.
2.25      Costs increased in 1976 in real terms as a result of the peso
devaluation in that year, but have decreased by 28% since then as a result
of traffic increases, more efficient operating performance and technical
improvements. The table below summarizes the relative levels of average
revenues and costs between 1975 and 1979 and shows that, after a marked
deterioration in 1976, the situation has improved considerably.
1975     1976      1977      1978     1979
----------(1974 constant Mex$)----------
Revenue/ton-km       0.125    0.100       0.100    0.100    0.094
Cost:  Variable      0.120    0.130       0.110    0.100    0.090
Fixed        0.050    0.050       0.050    0.050    0.040
Total         0.170    0.180      0.160    0.150    0.130
2.26      N de M's Costing Section carried out a revenue/cost analysis of
freight traffic, comparing variable cost/ton-km with the revenue/ton-km for
each commodity. This analysis indicated that 19 commodities comprising 40% of
the annual rail tonnage did not even cover the variable cost of providing
service. The major beneficiaries of relatively low tariffs were iron ore,
cement, coal, coke, fluoride, sugarcane, cotton, salt and baryte. Iron ore,
which is nearly 20% of N de II's total annual tonnage, showed an average



- 18 -
revenue of Mex$ 88/ton for an average haul of over 725 km, against the
variable cost of Mex$ 112/ton. Cement, which is 10% of the total annual
tonnage, showed an average revenue of Mex$ 43/ton, against the variable
costs of Mex$ 54/ton. The current structure of rail freight tariffs,
therefore, bears little relation to costs. The desirability of increasing
railway revenues by charging justifiably higher tariffs to some industrial
users of the railway is, therefore, clearly demonstrated. There is still a
wide margin between the truck rates and rail rates of major commodities. 1/
The railway can, therefore, afford to increase the rates without any danger of
losing the traffic to the highways because this is low value, bulk traffic
over long hauls. During discussions, the Mexican Government (SCT) agreed
that tariffs for each commodity and service should cover variable costs and
make a contribution to fixed costs. The recently published Plan Global
(para 1.24) also confirms that the Mexican Government's current tariff policy
is basically cost-oriented. The issue would also be addressed in the tariff
structure studies and their implementation (para 5.09).
2.27      N de M's passenger fares are also very low.  A comparison of current
passenger train fares and bus fares is given below:
% of Bus Fare
Train Fare      Bus Fare      to Train Fare
(per pass-km in Mex$)
First Class Sleeper/Luxury    0.23            0.36             159%
First Class Coach               0.18          0.33             178%
Second Class                   0.11           0.32            291%
As part of the ongoing Third Railway Project, N de M discontinued a large
number of passenger trains and reduced the passenger train deficits substan-
tially. However, the need for periodic increases of passenger fares, in
keeping with cost increases, persists as in the case of freight tariffs, even
though the Government pays specific subsidies to N de M for the remaining
passenger services (para 5.03).
2.28      Less than carload traffic (LCL) was about 0.1% of the total ton-km
in 1979. LCL tariffs are about 300% higher than the average regular freight
carload tariff. Under the ongoing project, N de M carried out a study of LCL
traffic and, since 1975, has reduced about 30% of the LCL traffic. N de M is
gradually transferring LCL traffic to Express Service so that the loss on LCL
can be eliminated and an improvement in the financial situation of the Express
can be made. N de M is studying the possibility of transferring LCL and
Express traffic to the carload service in unit trains. Although various
actions are being taken by N de M to improve the LCL service, progress has
been slow. Agreement was reached, during negotiations, that N de M would
furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1981, a plan to accelerate action
in reducing losses on LCL traffic on the basis of the study already carried
out under the previous Plan of Action.
1/   For example, the margin was 350% for iron ore, 240% for cement, and 215%
for fertilizer.



- 19 -
H.   Budget, Accounting and Audit
(i)   Budget
2.29      N de M prepares annual operating and investment budgets and submits
them to SCT by September of each year for approval. SCT apprcvras and then
sends them to SPP with or without modifications. The overall budget includes
the annual operating deficit, debt service charges for foreign loans, the
investment program, the maintenance program for the track, specific compen-
sations for passenger train service losses and other items as required. The
Government, after approving the budget regularly needed, pays subsidies to
N de M on a monthly basis. The Government has recently improved the budgeting
system and has instructed Government agencies such as N de M to follow it.
The new system represents a change from traditional budgeting to programed
budgeting, which allows the management to evaluate and control the performance
of each segment of activities, thus enabling it to improve the future planning
of the work program coinciding with the country's overall development plan.
Other advantages of program budgeting include the fact that it will avoid
duplication of activities and make the executers of the programs responsible
for their performance, thus reducing costs.
(ii) Accounting
2.30      N de M uses the same accounting methods as the US railways.  The
balance sheet shows that the equity has improved since 1979 as the results of
the revalued fixed assets and the corresponding accumulated depreciation have
been incorporated into it. N de M does not create depreciation reserve for
track (e.g., rails, ties and ballast); instead, it charges the maintenance of
track to the working cost, whereby the track is always kept in good operating
condition and does not depreciate. In the past, however,  regular track main-
tenance works did not always keep pace with the targets, largely due to
budget restrictions, which created the need for deferred maintenance.  Since
the revaluation of track represents the present replacement cost of good
track and not the track at the present condition, N de M analyzed and, with
the permission of the Tripartite Commission (para 2.06), reduced the revalua-
tion figures by one-third, from Mex$ 46,500 million to Mex$ 30,200 million.
The adjustment was made only in equity and not in working cost in order not
to distort the working ratio. The Tripartite Commission is presently study-
ing a changeover to a depreciation system. A decision will be made after the
study is completed in late 1980.   Whatever accounting method is chosen, as
long as it is used properly and consistently, it will be satisfactory.
2.31      N de M needs to introduce into its accounting system a good financial
reporting program to the management. This reporting system would be an input
to the overall management information system. Such a system would help the
railway executives to receive valuable information on time and to make correct
decisions promptly. N de M agreed to the establishment of such a system and
will carry out studies to determine specific needs (Annex 3).



- 20 -
(iii) Audit
2.32      The auditing of N de M's accounts is carried out regularly by
private external auditors. The audit reports have been sent to the Bank with
one to three months' delay. The Tripartite Commission decided that N de M
should submit the financial statements and related information to the auditors
early enough and that the auditors should complete their reports within five
months of the closing of the year so that a copy could be sent to the Bank on
time.
III. THE INVESTMENT PLAN AND THE PROJECT
A.   N de M's Investment Plan
3.01      Based on the forecast of traffic and on the anticipated operational
and capacity improvements of the system, N de M has prepared an Investment
Plan for 1981-1985 which is set out in Table 3.1. This plan continues and
supplements the ongoing plan for 1976-1980, which is being financed under the
Third Railway Project. As in the 1976-1980 plan, investments will be made
principally in track rehabilitation, motive power, rolling stock, and technical
assistance. Total investment in 1981-1985 is estimated at Mex$ 67.1 billion
(US$2.9 billion equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of Mex$ 20.6
billion (US$897 million).
3.02      N de M's Investment Plan for track rehabilitation and equipment
is complemented by SCT's infrastructure program for 1981-1985, which aims at
the realignment of existing lines and the construction of new lines and yards.
This approach is in keeping with the traditional policy of the Mexican
Government, whereby the Government (SCT) constructs major infrastructure
works which, on completion, are handed over as equity to the user (in this
case N de M). The doubling of the Mexico-Queretaro Section and the construc-
tion of the Coronondiro-Las Truchas line (connecting N de M to the Las
Truchas Steel Plant) are among the important infrastructure works executed
by SCT in recent years. The SCT Investment Plan for 1981-1985, detailed in
Table 3.2, covers infrastructure works including realignments of main line
sections and construction of new lines and yards. The program envisages the
expenditure of about Mex$ 43.3 billion (US$1.8 billion equivalent) during
the years 1981-1985 with a foreign exchange component of Mex$ 12.4 billion
(US$537.7 million).
3.03      The Bank has been asked by the Mexican Government to participate in
the financing of N de M's Investment Plan for rehabilitation and equipment,
whereas SCT's infrastructure program is to be financed entirely by the
Government. Since, however, the two plans are closely interlinked, regular
consultation between SCT and the Bank would be desirable. Therefore, it was
agreed with the Government, during negotiations, that the Bank would have the
opportunity to review and to comment upon the scope and the timing of the main
works in the SCT program. As a matter of fact, this process has, to a con-
siderable extent, already been carried out in that about 80% of the subprojects



- 21 -
in the SCT program have already been examined by the Bank and are considered
to be technically and economically justified. The consultation with the Bank
also resulted in the expansion of what was earlier a three-year investment
program into a five-year program covering the years 1981-1985. The Bank has,
however, not yet received the feasibility studies for some of the subprojects
(principally new lines, electrification and other works scheduled for later
years of the investment program) since these are not yet available. During
negotiations, it was agreed by the Government that it would, with respect to
its railway infrastructure program for 1981-1985, furnish to the Bank, as and
when available, the feasibility studies for the subprojects and the proposed
annual investment program for the railway infrastructure and would afford the
Bank an opportunity to comment on the feasibility studies for the subprojects.
B.   The Project and Proposed Loan
3.04      The project combines the 1981-1983 portion of ` de M's 1981-1985
Investment Plan with a Plan of Action aimed at improving the operating perfor-
mance of the railway. The proposed Bank loan of US$150 million would finance
about 28% of the foreign exchange cost of the project. The cost estimates are
detailed in Table 3.3 and are summarized below:
Project              Proposed Loan
Local   Foreign    Total   Amount   % of Loan
-------------(In US$ million)----------------
Track and Structures                 121.5    57.5       179.0    38.8       25.8%
Signaling and Telecommunications    23.1    22.1          45.2       -          -
Locomotives and Rolling Stock        442.9   350.9       793.8    88.2       58.8%
Engineering and Supervision           31.7     0.7        32.4       -         -
Consulting Services                    2.0     2.0         4.0     2.0        1.3%
Subtotal                       621.2   433.2    1,054.4   129.0        85.9%
Contingencies
-  Physical                          9.5     4.9        14.4     2.3        1.6%
-  Price                           360.2    97.7       457.9    18.7       12.5%
Total                          990.9   535.8    1,526.7   150.0       100.0%
3.05      The objectives of the project, together with those of the Plan of
Action, are.  (a) to augment the carrying capacity of N de M by the continued
rehabilitation of the track, improvements in signaling, and the acquisition of
additional motive power and rolling stock; (b) to continue the improvement of
N de M's operating efficiency in accordance with the targets set forth in the
Plan of Action; (c) to reduce N de M's operating deficits and improve the
financial position of N de M with the objective of reaching eventual financial
viability; and (d) to provide improved information systems for the management
of N de M. The Plan of Action, which covers the period 1981-1985, is detailed
in paragraph 3.10. The list of goods and services to be financed by the Bank
is given in Table 3.4.



- 22 -
C.  Main Project Items
3.06      The main items included in the project are as follows:
(i) Track and Structures: N de M will continue, in 1981-1983, various
track and structure improvement programs, of which previous phases
have been executed under the Second and Third Railway Projects:
(a) track rehabilitation, using new heavier rails, sleepers and
ballast on about 780 km of principal traffic routes and
second-hand recovered rail, with new sleepers and ballast, on
about 560 km of secondary lines. The sections to be dealt with
are listed in Table 3.5;
(b) provision of track maintenance machinery and equipment, together
with the regrouping of labor forces, to improve the standards
of maintenance, to cater to increased average speeds and
traffic requirements, and to maximize sectional capacity on
the rehabilitated sections;
(c) strengthening and, where necessary, replacing about 510 older
bridges to carry the heavier locomotive and car axle loads now
in use on the system; and
(d) lengthening of existing sidings and construction of new sidings
to enable longer freight trains and more frequent services.
(ii) Signaling and Communications. N de M proposes to extend the system
of CTC to three heavily used single line routes, to improve train
control and to increase traffic capacities. The routes are Irapuato-
Guadalajara, San Luis Potosi-Benjamin Mendez (near Saltillo) and
(tentatively) Teotihuacan-Veracruz via Los Reyes, a total of 960 km,
which will double the route lengths equipped with this type of train
control.
(iii) Locomotives: To cater to the increasing traffic, and in keeping
with a program for scrapping older locomotives no longer economical
to repair, N de M has arranged contracts for the provision of
additional main line locomotives; the contracts provide for the
delivery of 72 units in 1981, 60 units in 1982 and 60 units in
1983. Additionally, N de M is considering ordering 50 large horse-
power shunting locomotives, partly to replace old units and partly
to enable handling larger and heavier trains in the principal
traffic yards. N de M has completed a review of its locomotive
needs in the light of recent increases in traffic and has furnished
to the Bank an integrated program for locomotive scrapping and
purchases on the basis of this review. Agreement was reached on
the locomotive scrapping and purchase program for the project
period. The locomotive position by year, arising from the N de M
program of main line unit purchases and its scrapping program,
is set out in Table 3.6.



- 23 -
(iv) Freight Cars: To meet the demands of the increasing traffic and to
keep the utilization of foreign cars to a reasonable level, N de M
proposes to purchase about 2,885 cars in 1981, 2,985 in 1982 and
3,480 in 1983. These numbers are based on assessments as set out in
Table 3.7.
(v) Workshop Machinery: For the workshops and service depots, N de M
proposes to continue (from the Third Railway Project) the provision
of replacement and of additional machinery and equipment to improve
efficiency, and to provide for the gradually increasing number of
locomotives and rolling stock in the railway system.
(vi) Consulting Services/Technical Assistance: Three areas have been
identified for the possible use of consulting services:
(a)  Development of a comprehensive Management Information System
for N de M;
(b) Development and adoption of computer models for rail line
and yard capacity planning; and
(c) Improvement of train and yard operations and locomotive and
freight car utilization.
Draft terms of reference have been developed for the consultants on the basis
of discussions held with N de M during appraisal and negotiations as outlined
in Annex 3.
D.   Cost Estimates
3.07      The cost estimates for N de M's Investment Plan, including the
project period, are based on prices at the end of 1980. Local costs of
material and labor and contract data for similar work carried out on N de M
have been used. Physical contingencies have been added at 5% on work items.
Price contingencies have been taken on local costs at 23% for 1980, 20% for
1981, 17% for 1982, 15% for 1983 and 13% per year for 1984-1985; for foreign
costs, the price contingencies have been taken at 10.5% for 1980, 9% for
1981, 8% for 1982 and 7% per year for 1983-1985. The cost of consultants for
1981-1983 is US$2 million for 222 man-months at about US$9,000/man-month.
E.   Financing Plan
3.08      The cash flow forecast was prepared for N de M for the years 1980-
1985 and is shown in Chapter V. Details of assumptions used in preparing the
financing plan are given in Annex 4. A summary of the financing plan for the
proposed project and for the ongoing program is given in the following:



- 24 -
Financing Plan
(Mex$ million)
1980     1981      1982      1983       Total
Application of Funds
Ongoing Program                    8,060       170                           8,230
Proposed Project
Local                                -    6,078    7,192    9,519         22,789
Foreign                              -    4,560    3,802    3,793         12,155
8,060   10,808   10,994   13,312        43,174
Sources of Funds
IBRD Loan:  Proposed Project          -     1,003    1,313    1,134          3,450
Ongoing Project        871        170         -        -        1,041
NAFINSA                           4,741      7,454    7,250    8,817        28,262
BANOBRAS                          1,396      1,906    2,143    2,485         7,930
Other                               206          -         -      506          712
Government Contribution             846        275      288       370        1,779
8,060    10,808   10,994   13,312        43,174
The above figures include physical and price contingencies.  The financing has
been fully arranged for the ongoing program in 1980. For the proposed project,
BANOBRAS has been appointed as N de M's financing agent. Even though the
Government's contribution is very small, it will assume the debt service
charges on behalf of N de M. It is expected that there will be parallel
financing by Eximbank USA (about US$94 million) and international banks (about
US$127 million) through NAFINSA to finance the purchase of locomotives and to
complete the financial package for N de M. Such financing would reduce N de M's
need to rely on BANOBRAS and NAFINSA. A complete financing plan was agreed
with the Mexicans during negotiations.
F.   Project Implementation
3.09      N de M would be responsible for the implementation of the project.
The project implementation schedule for track renovation works would be in
accordance with the program detailed in Table 3.5, whereas other works and the
procurement of motive power, rolling stock and equipment would conform to the
year-by-year program detailed in Tables 3.1, 3.3 and 3.4.
G.   Plan of Action
3.10      In order to achieve the project's objectives, N de M agreed during
negotiations to implement a Plan of Action on the lines set out on the
following page.



- 25 -
(i) N de M shall prepare and introduce a corporate plan designed to
achieve the following targets:
1981     1982      1983       1984      1985
(a)  (i) Working ratio             129       121      109        100         94
(ii) Operating ratio           144      131       126        114        107
(b) Locomotive-km per
freight locomotive
in service in a
given year                 85,000   90,000   95,000   100,000   105,000
(c) Average of
locomotives out of
order expressed as
a percentage of total
fleet                          23        22       21         20         19
(d) Ton-km per freight
car per day                 2,100    2,200    2,300       2,400      2,500
(e) Average turnaround
time of freight cars
expressed in days            12.4      12.1     11.9       11.7       11.5
(f) Average of freight
cars out of order
expressed as a
percentage of total
fleet                           5         5        5          5          5
(g) Average net train
load expressed in
tons                        1,280    1,330    1,380       1,430     1,480
(h) Number of foreign
cars on line per day       10,000    9,000    8,000       7,000      7,000
(ii) In order to attain the targets set forth in paragraph (i) preceding,
N de M shall:
(a) reduce the operating costs of the railways as necessary to
operate them in the most efficient manner;
(b) furnish to the Bank, not later than December 31, 1981,
a manpower plan updating the manpower plan prepared in
connection with the Third Railway Project to the year 1985,
including, inter alia, the departmental distribution of
manpower year by year to the year 1985 in accordance with
the improvements in the operation of the railways as set
forth in the investment plan and plan of action for such
Project;



- 26 -
(c)  (1) periodically carry out a cost analysis o-
branch lines and, on the basis of such analysis, relacU
progressively any losses of N de M from their operation;
and
(2) each year, request from the Guarantor: (A) permission
to abandon low-density branch lines or (B) compensatiorn for
the losses estimated to be incurred during such year by
operating low-density branch lines, and, whenever the Bank
shall reasonably request, identify the losses with respect
to each one of such lines; and
(d)  furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1981, a plan
to accelerate action to reduce losses on less-than-carload
traffic on the basis of the study carried out unda ; 
Railway Project.
(iii) The Plan of Action shall further include:
(a)  periodic reviews by N de M of the operational and financial
condition of the passenger train services and progressive
reductions, on the basis of such review, of the losses of
N de M from the operation of such passenger services;
(b)  in order to reduce losses carried by N de M, annual requests
by N de M to the Guarantor for compensation for the losses
estimated to be incurred during such year by operating
uneconomic passenger services, and identification in the
request of the losses with respect to each one of such
services;
(c)  presentation by N de M to the Guarantor of claims for the
total cost of mail service provided by N de M; and
(d)  earning by N de M of such revenues as will cover, by
December 31, 1988, all its operating costs and interest
on debt and, to attain such purpose, review of the financial
projections and related actions of N de M with the Bank
periodically in accordance with the progress made from year
to year and the necessary adjustment of such projections.
P.   Procurement
3.11      All items to be procured with the proceeds of the proposed loan
would be subject to international competitive bidding (ICB), in accordance
with Bank guidelines. In bid evaluation, Mexican manufacturers would be
allowed a preferential margin of 15% of the CIF cost of competing imports,
or the relevant prevailing level of custom duties, whichever is lower.
3.12      The principal items to be purchased under ICB would be rails, compo-
nents for freight cars and special types of freight cars that would be purchased
complete. The components would be used in the manufacture of cars by Constructora
Nacional (CN), a state-owned enterprise which operates efficiently on a commer-
cial basis and produces good quality cars. Under the Second and Third Railway



- 27 -
Projects, this enterprise secured the contracts not only for the cars reserved
for manufacture within the country, but also for some of the cars tendered
through international bidding. CN's factories have the capability to produce
3,000 to 3,500 cars per year; therefore, the Mexican Government and N de M
have requested, in keeping with the Government's policy of utilizing the
optimum installed capacity, that 8,800 cars be purchased from Constructora
during the three-year period 1981-1983. For these cars, the prices of which
are subject to adequate Government control and are consistent with prevailing
market prices, the imported components would be financed by the Bank, as in
the ongoing railway project. The components to be obtained on ICB are
estimated to cost about 18% of the total price of the cars to be manufac-
tured by CN and would mainly comprise some steel sections, door fittings,
brake equipment, roller bearings, wheels and axles.
3.13      The diesel locomotives included in the project would be obtained by
N de M, as in the past, for reasons of standardization, from General Motors
and General Electric in the USA.
I.   Disbursement
3.14      For imported goods, disbursements would be made on the basis of CIF
costs, and, with respect to bids won by local manufacturers under ICB, disburse-
ments would be made on the basis of 100% of the ex-factory costs. The Bank
would also finance 100% of the foreign exchange costs of consulting services.
The estimated quarterly disbursement for the proposed loan, based on the
assumption that the loan would become effective by 1981, is shown in Table 3.8.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that there would be retroactive
financing of about US$15 million for track and freight car component purchases
made after November 1, 1980. The closing date would be June 30, 1984.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
4.01      Mexico's railways continue to play an important role in the develop-
ment of the country's economy. Despite the fact that road transport's share
of total freight transported relative to rail has increased, with railways
transporting 23% of freight in 1977 compared with 26% in 1970, the railways
maintain their dominance in the transport of bulk commodities, such as food
grains, minerals and fertilizers, over long distances. The traffic forecasts
given in Chapter II and Annex 5 reflect this situation, and both N de M's and
SCT's investment programs were formulated to ensure that N de M's capacity
would be sufficient to handle forecast demand. The SCT program of infrastruc-
ture investments and about 80% of N de M's Investment Plan are primarily
geared toward increasing railway capacity. These two investment programs,
and the subprojects which define them, are complementary. As such, the
realization of the benefits from the N de M Investment Plan is dependent in
part upon the timely implementation of the complementary SCT works.
4.02      The SCT Program and its economic justification are discussed in
Annex 7. This Program includes line rehabilitation and reconstruction as
well as the construction of new marshaling yards and new lines, and is well



- 28 -
justified. About 80% of the subprojects included in the program have been
subject to economic evaluation by SCT, yielding rates of return varying
from 16% to 33%, with an overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 22%.
The remaining subprojects would be evaluated prior to their implementation
(para 3.03).
B.   Benefits and Economic Returns
4.03      The economic evaluation concentrates on the three years of N de M's
Investment Plan which make up the project period, 1981-1983. The economic
viability of investments in rolling stock and motive power, track renewal and
associated track machinery, bridge rehabilitation and CTC is assessed. These
subprojects constitute about 85% of the total cost of the Plan. Items not
evaluated include miscellaneous station and building works, minor investments
in telecommunications, electricity and lighting, workshop machinery of a
replacement nature, service cars and technical assistance. The economic costs
include physical contingencies and exclude taxes. Annex 6 gives details.
4.04      The N de M Investment Plan is an integrated package with a number
of interrelated components. For example, the realization of benefits from
capacity-increasing investments, such as investments in rolling stock and
motive power, is dependent upon the availability of adequately maintained
infrastructure which would allow commercial speeds, and locomotive and car
utilization envisaged under the Plan of Action. In turn, the benefits from
works such as track renewal, which prevent line deterioration, thereby avoiding
capacity restrictions, are dependent in part upon the availability of adequate
motive power and rolling stock to carry forecast traffic. In the evaluation
of the N de M Investment Plan, each of the subprojects is first evaluated
separately to determine its economic viability. Because of the interrelation-
ship between the subprojects, however, some degree of overlap is unavoidable
in evaluating each separately. Thus, for example, it is assumed, when evaluating
infrastructure investments (track renewal and CTC), that expansions of fleet and
motive power would take place to sustain the increasing traffic. Their depre-
ciation is included in the operating costs for these lines, and it is assumed
that the operatiorial improvements under the Action Plan would be realized. In
evaluating the investment program as a whole, therefore, care was taken to
avoid double counting in arriving at the economic return of the Investment
Plan, as described in Annex 6.
(i)  Acquisition of Motive Power and Rolling Stock
4.05      The program of acquisition of motive power and rolling stock, which
represents 70% of the three-year Investment Plan, was analyzed on a network-wide
basis. The determination of needs took into account forecast traffic as well
as targets for improved operating performance, particularly increases in locomo-
tive and car utilization, locomotive availability and average train loads. The
benefit from these investments is measured in terms of transport cost savings
for the overall economy, calculated as the difference between the economic
costs of rail and road transport, taking into consideration the traffic which
would be diverted from rail to road if the investments are not carried out.
Details are given in Annex 6, Table 1. These benefits yield an ERR of 18%.



- 29 -
(ii) Track Renewal and Bridge Rehabilitation
4.06      The Investment Plan calls for the purchase and installation of
new rail of 115 lb/yard on some 790 km of main line. In addition, second-hand
rail, released from the main line, would be used to rehabilitate about 700 km
of lower density lines. These investments provide for track-laying equipment
needed to carry out the program. In both cases, the improvements include the
replacement of rails, sleepers and ballast. In addition, the program calls
for the reconstruction of a number of bridges and culverts. The benefits from
main line track renewal are: (a) reduction in track maintenance costs, includ-
ing avoidance of investment in deferred maintenance to bring the lines to a
minimum standard of safety; and (b) avoidance of continued track deterioration,
which, without the project, would result in extensive speed restrictions,
ultimately limiting line capacity and causing diversion of traffic from rail
to road. As noted in paragraph 4.04, the long run rail variable costs include
depreciation of fleet and motive power.  This serves to is 'icitly evaluate
these investments on the corridors considered. Benefits fiom reduced wear
and, therefore, maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock, and increased
safety were not quantified. ERRs, calculated for each line, ranged from 15%
to 18% and yielded an overall ERR of 17% (Annex 6, paras 7-9). Benefits from
track renewal with recovered rail include: (a) reduced track maintenance
costs; and (b) benefits from improved equipment utilization due to increased
speeds on lines, which, without the project, would be subject to speed restric-
tions, yielding an overall ERR of 21% (Annex 6, para 10). Quantified benefits
from bridge improvements are savings from improved equipment utilization by
avoiding abnormally low speeds on bridges. The ERR of this component of the
program is 26% (Annex 6, para 11).
(iii) CTC Signaling
4.07      The 1981-1983 Investment Plan provides for the acquisition and
installation of a CTC system on three high density lines: Irapuato-Guadalajara,
San Luis Potosi-Benjamin Mendez and (tentatively) Teotihuacan-Los Reyes.
Project benefits consist principally of savings derived from avoidance of
delays on the line and savings due to increased capacity. Benefits from
avoidance of delays were calculated by estimating locomotive, wagon, fuel, and
repair costs per hour and applying them to the difference in train running
time, with and without the project, in a base year and projected as a function
of expected traffic. In calculating benefits from increased line capacity, it
was assumed that, without the proposed investment, the line would become
saturated as traffic grew, resulting in the diversion of traffic to roads at a
higher economic cost. Details are given in Annex 6, paragraph 12. The rate of
return for works on the San Luis Potosi-Benjamin Mendez line is 40%, on the
Irapuato-Guadalajara line 33%. The Teotihuacan-Los Reyes line was analyzed as
part of the SCT Investment Program for that section, which includes limited
regrading as well as CTC, yielding an economic return of 32% (Annex 7).
C.   Overall Economic Evaluation
4.08      The N de M Investment Plan is well justified, with an overall
economic return of 22% (Table 4.1).



- 30 -
D.   Sensitivity and Risks
4.09      A shortfall in the realization of forecast traffic is usually the
main risk in transport projects. To test the project's sensitivity to traffic
shortfalls, it was assumed that the rate of growth of freight traffic would
be 25% lower than forecast. This assumption implies an overall growth rate of
5% between 1979 and 1985 and a long term rate of 3.5%. Under this assumption,
the economic rate of return on investment in motive power and wagons would be
reduced from 18% to 15%. If the traffic growth rate were reduced by 50%
(e.g., 3.3%), the return on this component would still be acceptable at 12%.
While the risk of a shortfall in traffic growth, given Mexico's rapidly
growing economy, is not considered great, in order to minimize this risk, it
was agreed during negotiations that the analysis of freight car requirements
would be reviewed annually to relate year to year procurement to any changes
in the types and volumes of traffic transported by N de M.  A sloiel  a.L o,f
traffic growth affects, to a lesser extent, the returns on the track renewal
program, but does not alter the basic conclusions concerning its economic
viability. All of the subprojects evaluated remain viable, with a 10% increase
in project costs. The overall economic return, considering a 25% reduction in
the traffic growth rate, is 17%, and, considering a 10% increase in project
costs, 19%. If both these factors are taken together, the overall ERR would
be 16%. Thus, the economic viability of the Investment Plan is not very
sensitive to the types of changes most likely to occur. The results of the
sensitivity tests are given in Table 4.1.
V.  FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.   Past Financial Performance
5.01      N de M's financial performance in the past five years, since the
appraisal of the Third Railway Project (Loan 1232-ME), was a combination of
major achievements in some areas and poor performance in others. Major
achievements were the revaluation of fixed assets; the curtailment of over 40%
of the passenger train services; the rationalization of uneconomic lines; the
Government's payment of specific subsidies to N de M on the remaining passenger
train operating losses identified with each service; the cancellation of taxes
on gross revenues; and the reimbursement of total cost of operating the mail
service to N de M.
5.02      Concerning the revaluation of fixed assets, the General Manager of
N de M agreed with the Bank, through a supplementary letter, to carry out the
revaluation and to use the results for the adjustment of tariffs, but without
changing the official balance sheet, since the Government did not allow it to
do so. This revaluation was carried out, but without taking any action on
tariff adjustment. In the meantime, a Tripartite Commission (para 2.06),
formed in 1978 to study and resolve the railway's financial problems, issued a
decree allowing N de M not only to carry out the revaluation of fixed assets,
but also to incorporate the results into the official balance sheet. N de M
then carried out the second revaluation in 1979, and the results were incor-
porated into the balance sheet. N de M plans to revalue the fixed assets once
every three years.



- 31 -
5.03      Concerning the passenger train services, the General Manager of
N de M agreed with the Bank that N de M would progressively reduce the
uneconomic services and the related losses. During the period 1974 to 1978,
N de M reduced the number of passenger trains by 43%, from 56 to 32 trains,
for which it has been claiming specific losses from the Government. Conforming
to Section 3.03 of the Guarantee Agreement for Loan 1232-ME, the Government
agreed that the above-mentioned 32 trains be continued in service for social
reasons and, through a letter of February 9, 1976, authorized the railway to
identify the specific losses by each passenger train. N de M is, however,
presently carrying out a study on the entire passenger train service in order
to recommend to the Government a suitable policy to be adopted which may
involve (a) reduction or discontinuance of further services and improvements
in others, particularly on principal routes, to attract, if economical,
passenger traffic now moving by buses or private cars; and (b) an increase in
tariffs to reduce losses. The Bank would be given the opportunity to review
the study and comment thereon. It was agreed during negotiations that N de M
would (a) periodically review the financial and operational condition of the
existing passenger train services and take action to progressively reduce the
losses on them; and (b) continue to request from the Government compensation
for losses on uneconomic passenger services and to identify such losses with
each of the services. It was also agreed that the Government would compensate
for such losses.
5.04      Regarding the 34 low density branch lines, 1/ the railway was, under
Section 5.06(ii) of the Loan Agreement, obliged to request each year from the
Guarantor specific compensation for the losses from those lines. Although
N de M has been receiving such compensation for its total deficits, a specific
request similar to that for the passenger trains was never submitted to the
Government. On October 18, 1979, N de M requested the Bank to waive the
requirement under Section 5.06(ii) because the specific calculations would
need additional staff. Furthermore, after studying 39 low density branch
lines (five more than the Bank asked for), N de M to date has abandoned four
lines, found 17 lines to be economic, included one line as part of the main
line because of gauge widening, found five lines needed to be restudied, and
found 12 to be uneconomic. The deficit on these 12 branch lines represents
under 2% of the total operating deficit. Therefore, the Bank, through a
letter of February 5, 1980, concurred with N de M's request and waived the
requirement under Section 5.06(ii). It was, however, agreed during negotia-
tions that N de M would continue periodically to carry out a cost analysis on
low density branch lines, identify the losses for each one of such lines
whenever the Bank shall reasonably request, and request the Government either
to compensate for losses or to permit abandonment. The Government also agreed
to pay compensation for losses on uneconomic lines.
5.05      Regarding mail service, the Tripartite Commission (para 2.06)
canceled, in 1979, the franchise that the Government agencies previously had
for very low cost mail service and instructed them to pay, in the future, the
full cost of mail services to N de M through the Mexican postal agency
1/   Under the Second Loan (825-ME) in 1972, N de M agreed to study 34 low
density branch lines for the purpose of reducing deficits.



- 32 -
(Departamento de Correo). To conform to this instruction, an agreement was
reached with N de M and the Government, during negotiations, that N de M would
claim the total cost of mail service and the Government would provide it.
5.06      The Government (SCT) showed substantial improvement in the railway
tariff policy in the past six years (1975-1980) as compared with 15 years
prior to that period (1960-1974). During 1960-1974, no freight tariffs were
increased, but, since 1974, the tariffs have been increased practically once
a year (para 2.24). In spite of these favorable actions, however, the finan-
cial situation did not improve especially from 1976 on. The real problems
have been: (1) the massive devaluation of the Mexican peso in August 1976
and (2) inadequate tariff increases to recover the 1976 major setback. The
Mexican peso was devalued from Mex$ 12.5 per US dollar to Mex$ 23.0 per
US dollar. Staff costs increased in that year by 27% and the material costs
made a big leap of over 85% and continued to increase thereafter.
5.07      Income statements for the years 1975 through 1979 are given in
Table 5.1 and are summarized in the following:
1975     1976      1977     1978      1979
--------   (Mex$ millions)--------------
Operating Revenues:
Excluding Compensation
for Unprofitable Services    5,001    5,215    7,397    9,053   10,750
Including Compensation         5,001    5,665    7,980    9,812   11,482
Working (or Cash) Expenses        5,997    8,104    9,742   10,658   13,718
Working (or Cash) Revenue (Loss)
Excluding Compensation           (996)  (2,889)  (2,345)  (1,605)  (2,968)
Depreciation 1/                     301      374       512      516       676
Net Operating Loss
Excluding Compensation         1,297    3,263    2,857    2,121    3,644
Operating Ratio:
Actual - Without Compensation   126        163       139      123       134
- With Compensation       126       150      128       114      125
Target                           130       130       120      123       119
5.08      The above table indicates that the gap between the revenues and
costs increased considerably from 1975 to 1979. The revenues increased from
Mex$ 5,001 million in 1975 to Mex$ 10,750 million in 1979, whereas the costs
increased from Mex$ 6,298 million to Mex$ 14,394 million, increasing the
net operating loss from Mex$ 1,297 million to Mex$ 3,644 million. In real
terms, this deficit increased by about 15%. The operating ratios consequently
deteriorated from 126 in 1975 to 134 in 1979.
1/   Depreciation calculated on book value of assets rather than on
revalued assets.



- 33 
5.09      The conclusion, therefore, is that, in spite of:  (a) substantial
levels of traffic increases, (b) major achievements in some of the areas of
finances (paras 5.02 to 5.05), and (c) improvements in technical and operational
areas, N de M was not able to succeed in meeting the financial targets. The
focus, therefore, should be on tariff increases in real terms. Furthermore,
since freight revenues are about 90% of total revenues, and it is the freight
service whose share of total annual deficit is increasing, efforts should be
concentrated on the adequate increases of freight rates. This factor has been
given major consideration in the forecast income statements of N de M for 1980
to 1985 (para 5.12). N de M has agreed to carry out a study for improving the
tariff structure and levels, and, during negotiations, agreement was reached
that:
(i) N de M would carry out and furnish to the Bank for review and
comment, not later than June 30, 1981, a study for improving
its tariff structure and levels, taking ir- consideration,
among other things, the following factors:
- variable costs of individual commodities based on the
revaluation of fixed assets; and
- intermodal competition, in particular the competition
from the trucking industry. N de M would review each year,
until the completion of the project, the adequacy of tariff
structure and levels;
(ii) N de M would give the Bank an opportunity to review and comment
on the terms of reference of the said study prior to the
initiation of the study;
(iii) N de M would request authorization from the Government
to restructure or increase its rates, fares or other charges
and would introduce these changes after such authorization
would have been granted. If the Government shall not grant
such authorization on the terms requested by N de M, then
N de M would exchange views with the Bank on the alternative
measures that N de M would reasonably be required to take
in order to compensate for not obtaining the requested
authorization; and
(iv) The Governnent would take all such action as shall be
necessary or advisable to enable N de M to meet the
requirements set forth in the Plan of Action. Although
it is the firm intention of the Government to authorize
N de M to restructure or increase the rates, fares and
other charges as needed to meet the requirements of the
Plan of Action, the Government shall not be obligated to
grant such authorization if the restructuring or increase
sought by N de IT would be inconsistent with broader
national or sectoral objectives of the Government; when
such authorization is not granted on the terms requested
by N de 14, the Government would inform the Bank thereof.



- 34 -
5.10      N de M's cash flow for 1976 through 1979 is given in Table 5.2.
Cash operating deficits financed by the Government averaged some US$70 million
a year between 1977 and 1979 (after devaluation). Investments averaged
US$140 million a year and debt repayments averaged US$200 million - both of
which were financed by Government contributions and foreign and local loans.
In spite of variations from year to year, N de M's working capital position
has been satisfactory during the past five years, mainly because of the
Government's regular payment of the subsidies. The cash balance for 1979 has
been about one-twelfth of the annual staff costs.
5.11      N de M's balance sheets for 1976-1979 are shown in Table 5.3.  The
results of the second revaluation in 1979 have been incorporated into that
year's balance sheet. The debt-equity ratio improved from 55/45 in 1976
to 26/74 before revaluation and 19/81 after revaluation in 1979. Durinrg the
ongoing project, N de M agreed not to obtain short- or medium-term loans if
the total cost of debts is more than 10% of the total capitalization. N de M
conformed to this loan covenant for all the years between 1975 and 1979 except
in 1976, when the cost of total debts was 10.3%. Since this excess was due to
an unforeseen devaluation of the peso, and prospects were that non-conformity
would be temporary, the Bank did not object to it.
B.   Forecast Financial Performance (1981-1985)
(i) Financial Goal
5.12      The financial goal of N de M should be to ensure a definite gradual
improvement in the financial performance measured mainly through the working
and operating ratios. Since this goal can be achieved by implementing cost-
based tariffs and by allowing N de M to catch up with past cost increases,
N de M and the mission considered it desirable to project such tariff increas4s
which would allow total revenues to increase annually, by five percentage points
over the railway cost increases. Those high volume commodities, e.g., iron
ore, cement and fertilizer, whose tariffs have been reclassified downward,
would be given priority for adequate tariff increases. This was a major
assumption in the financial forecasting of N de M for 1981-1985. Since
SCT has control over tariff increases, the Bank recommended that the railway
submit the complete package of the financial forecast to SCT's Comptroller
General and Director General of Tariffs, Hacienda and SPP for their endorsement.
N de M did so.



- 35 -
5.13      The Government recognizes N de M's important role in the transporta-
tion field in Mexico and continues to provide needed subsidies to N de M.
The Government also has a policy of gradually reducing subsidies by proper
tariff increases, and the Office of the Controller General of SCT expressed
agreement in principle with the projected tariff increases. This year,
freight tariffs have been increased by 29% (the inflation is about 24%), and
the mission received assurances from SCT that the Government proposes to
maintain such levels of tariff increases. Encouraged by these actions,
therefore, the long-term policy and the financial forecast for 1981-1985 are
based on the improvement of the structure and levels of tariffs and a rational
subsidy system with a declining trend.
5.14      Based on the traffic forecast, the investment plan, debt service,
and the financing plan, N de M prepared a financial forecast for 1981-1985.
Because SCT would hand over to N de M as equity the completed railway infra-
structure works included in SCT's 1981-1985 Investment Program, these forecasts
reflect their depreciation. The methodology and assumptions used are described
in Annex 8.
5.15      The forecast income statement is shown in Table 5.4 and is summarized
as follows:
Estimate                    Forecast
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984      1985
Operating Revenues
- Excluding Government
Compensation on
Unprofitable Services          12,935   16,377   21,024   26,791   33,658   41,724
- Including Compensation         13,951   17,636   22,551   28,664   35,892   44,257
Working (or Cash) Expenses       17,379   21,160   25,427   29,188   33,668   39,263
Working (or Cash) Revenues
Excluding Compensation        (4,444)  (4,783)  (4,403)  (2,397)        10    2,461
Depreciation                      2,491   2,386      2,160    4,617    4,768    5,260
Net Operating Revenues/(Loss)
Excluding Compensation         (6,935) (7,169)   (6,563)  (7,014)  (4,758)  (2,799)
Working Ratio (%)
- Without Compensation              134      129       121       109      100        94
- With Compensation                 125      120       113       102       94        89
Operating Ratio (%)
- Without Compensation              154     144        131       126      114       107
- With Compensation                 142      134       122       118      107       101



- 36 -
The depreciation figures are based on the revaluation of fixed assets. Between
1980 and 1985, total revenues are expected to grow by Mex$ 28,800 million, and
total operating costs by Mex$ 24,700 million. The working ratio is expected to
improve from an estimated 134 in 1980 to 94 in 1985 and the operating ratio
from 154 to 107 for the same period. These improvements are considered
realistic and practical provided that the tariff increases materialize. The
above stated working and operating ratios are incorporated as targets in the
Plan of Action which N de M agreed to carry out (para 3.10).
5.16      A cost analysis for the forecast period shows that, with all the
assumptions used in the financial forecast, the freight revenues will gradually
cover variable costs and will make a contribution to fixed costs. The variable
costs include working costs, depreciation and interest. The estimated results
for 1980 and 1985 are as follows:
1 9 8 0                                  1 9 8 5
Revenues           Costs                Revenues            Costs
Variable  Fixed  Total                   Variable  Fixed  Total
(Mex$ millions) -------                -------(Mex$ millions)----------
Freight          11,011    12,106   3,465  15,571    37,951         32,354   7,638  39,992
Passenger           465      2,189      480   2,669      1,124       5,984   1,082   7,066
Express, Mail
and Other         1.009      1,314      366   1,680      2,199       3,407      775   4,182
Total            12,485    15,609   4,311  19,920    41,274         41,745   9,495  51,240
By 1985, freight revenues are expected to almost cover the total cost of
freight operations.
(ii) Staff Costs, Medical Insurance and Social Security System
5.17      Salaries and wages have been declining in real terms.  Projections
for the years 1980-1985 are therefore made to correct this trend by the
assumption of moderate salary increases in real terms. The comparison of past
and future salary trends is shown in the following:
1975-1979   1980-1985
(x)        (M)
(a)  Increase in wages at current prices              118        116
(b)  Increase in consumer price index                140         105
(c)  Increase/(decrease) in real wages                (10)         5
(d)  Increase in productivity per employee             15         10
The salary levels should not only keep pace with inflation but should also
gain in real terms to provide incentive to experienced employees to remain
with the railway. N de M has approached the Government in pursuit of higher
salaries and is hopeful that they will be granted.



- 37 -
5.18      N de M has reached a fairly advanced stage in the transfer of
pensions and medical and social insurance to IMSS( para 2.09). There are
21,801 retired employees whose pensions are paid directly by N de M, and there
are an additional 15,000 who are eligible to retire because of their service
or age. On the recommendation of the Tripartite Commission, the Controller
General of SCT is seriously studying the transfer of social security to IMSS
and is favorably considering providing funds to N de M so that it can pay IMSS
to cover the benefits of the retired employees. Actuarial studies have been
carried out, and the future cost to N de M is expected to decrease by 50%.
Further details are given in Annex 9.
5.19      The cash flow forecasts for 1980 to 1985 are given in Table 5.5
and are summarized below:
1980     1981      1982      1983     1984      1985     Total      %
-----------------------(Mex$ Millions)---------------------
Application of Funds
N de M's Operating Losses   5,919    5,910    5,036    5,141    2,544            266    24,816    16
Less Depreciation             2,491    2,386    2,160    4,617    4,768    5,260    21,681    14
Losses (Surplus)
after Depreciation          3,428    3,524    2,876        524   (2,224)  (4,994)    3,134        2
Debt Payments                 5,878    7,567   10,881   13,961   17,712   20,230    76,229    49
Investment Plan               8,205   10,808   10,994   13,312   14,886   17,130    75,335    49
Total Applications           17,511   21.899   24,751   27,797   30,374   32,366   154,698   lOO
Sources of Funds
IBRD - Loan 1232-ME             871       170        -         -         -        -      1,041      1
Proposed Loan                   1,003    1,313    1,134          -         -     3,450      2
Loans:
BANOBRAS and NAFINSA:
Local                    4,673    6,800    7,983   10,367   11,742   13,695    55,260    36
Foreign                   3,559    5,216    4,368    4,285    4,702    5,196    27,326    18
Government Contribution       8,035    8,710   11,087   11,505   12,202   11,622    63,161    41
Other                           373         -         -      506    1,728    1,853       4,460      2
Total Sources                17,511   21,899   24,751   27,797   30,374   32,366   154.698   100



- 38 -
The Government would provide 41% of the total funds to CCO'-               :'icits
(less depreciation), debt payments and the investment plan,  _             -cc
reached during negotiations that the Government would provide funds cr arrange
financing as needed by N de M to meet the expenditures required 'or carrying
out the railway operations, to execute the Investment Plan and to carry out
the Plan of Action in a timely manner.
5.20      The long-term debts to cover the proposed Investment Plan will be
heavy during the next six years.  The local and foreign long-term loans5
excluding IBRD loans, will form 54% of the total funds needed. In absolute
terms, the total new loans for 1980 to 1985 are expected to be about
Mex$ 90,000 million (about US$3.5 billion). The Government custc- ;
pays the foreign debt service charges directly and, through annual subsidies
to N de M, the local debt service charges indirectly. The debt/equity ratio,
therefore, would depend upon the magnitude of the Goverf1c          --t'  a
support to N de M.
5.21      In the Third Railway Project, the Bank reached an agreement with
N de M that N de M shall not incur any short- or medium-term loan if the total
debt exceeds 10% of total capitalization. However, for the next six years,
the investments will be substantial and the long term debt will be heavy. The
debt/equity ratio (after revaluation of fixed assets) is estimated to increase
to 40/60 in 1985 as compared with 19/81 in 1979 (Table 5.6). N de M's future
liquidity position needs to be monitored by ensuring that the debt service
remains within an acceptable level. A new debt limitation covenant, based on
debt/equity ratio, needs to be introduced. It was, therefore, agreed during
negotiations that N de M would not incur any debt, unless otherwise agreed
with the Bank, if the debt/equity ratio based on revalued fixed assets an
including the debt to be incurred is more than 45/55.
5.22      If actions are taken by N de M and the Government on the above-
mentioned points, particularly the tariff increases, the financial performance
of the railway will gradually improve and the Government subsidy to N de M
will decrease. It is expected that, from 1986, N de M will make operating
profits. These annual profits, added to the depreciation collected for the
year, should enable the railway to cover, through its revenues, the total
operating costs and the interest charges. It was, therefore, agreed during
negotiations that N de M would take all necessary actions to obtain suc'h
revenues as shall permit it to cover, no later than 1988, all operating costs
and interest, and, to this end, the financial projections would be reviewed and
adjusted periodically with the Bank according to the progress achieved in the
1980-1985 period.
C.   Sensitivity Analysis
5.23      A sensitivity analysis of the financial forecast was performed
based on the following assumptions:
(a) Tariffs - 10 percentage points lower than the assumed increases
in the base calculations for 1981-1985
(b) Traffic
growth
rate    - 50% less than forecast



- 39 -
(c)  Costs   - 7 percentage points higher than forecast
(d) Tariffs
& Costs - Tariffs 10 percentage points lower than the assumed
increases, and the costs 10 percentage points higher than
the forecast.
The effect of the above on the operating ratios would be as follows:
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Cases
Forecast Operating Ratios (Basic)              144    131    126    114    107
(a) Annual Freight Tariff decreases
10 percentage points lower than
forecast                                   154    151    157    154    157
(b) Freight Traffic Growth Rate
50% lower than forecast                    146    135    131    118    109
(c) Annual Cost increases 7 percentage
points higher than forecast                152    139    134    121    113
(d) Annual Freight Tariff increases
10 percentage points lower and
costs 10 percentage points higher
than forecast                              207    201    207    201    204
(e) Combination of (a) + (b) + (c)             165    164    172    168    170
The above table demonstrates that the financial performance of N de M will
be highly sensitive to the tariff levels. If the 1981-1985 tariffs are
10 percentage points lower than the basic assumption, the operating ratio for
1985 will be 157 (instead of 107 under the basic assumption), which is even
higher than the 154 in 1981. The financial results are moderately sensitive
to the traffic growth because the decrease in traffic will effect a decrease
in short-run variable costs. The increases in operating as well as capital
expenditure will also influence the financial situation of the railway. The
combination of tariff decreases by 10 percentage points and cost increases by
10 percentage points will produce much poorer results. The combination of the
above items (a), (b) and (c), will produce the operating ratio of 170 by
1985. The conclusion of the sensitivity analysis is that every measure should
be taken to assure that tariffs are increased as assumed in the forecast.



- 40 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with N de M and the
Government on the following:
(a)  N de M to furnish to the Bank, not later than June 30, 1981,
a plan to accelerate action in reducing losses on LCL traffic
on the basis of the study already carried out under the previous
Plan of Action (para 2.28);
(b)  the Bank to have the opportunity to review and to comment upon
the studies in the SCT infrastructure program (para 3.03);
(c)  N de M to implement a Plan of Action in accordance with agreed
targets (para 3.10);
(d)  retroactive financing of about US$15 million for track and freight
car component purchases made after November 1, 1980 to be provided
(para 3.15);
(e)  freight car data to be reviewed annually for the following year,
to relate procurement from year to year to any changes that
might arise in the operational situation and in the types and
volumes of traffic transported by N de M (para 4.09);
(f)  N de M to periodically review the financial and operational
condition of the existing passenger train services and take action
to progressively reduce the losses on them, and to continue to
request from the Government compensation for losses on uneconomic
passenger services and to identify such losses with each of the
services; the Government to compensate for such losses (para 5.03);
(g)  N de NI to continue periodically to carry out a cost analysis on
low density branch lines and request the Government either to
compensate for losses or to permit abandonment; the Government to
pay compensation for losses on uneconomic lines (para 5.04);
(h)  N de M to claim the total cost of mail service and the Government
to provide it (para 5.05);
(i)  N de M to carry out and furnish to the Bank, not later than
June 30, 1981, a study for improving the tariff structure and level
of N de M; to give the Bank an opportunity to review and comment
on the terms of reference of the said study; and to request authori-
zation from the Government for necessary actions to be taken for
tariff increases; the Government to authorize N de M to improve
the structure and levels of tariffs in order to carry out its
obligations under the Plan of Action unless such changes would be
inconsistent with the broader national or sectoral objectives
of the Government (para 5.09);



- 41 -
(j) the Government to provide funds or arrange financing as needed
by N de M to meet the expenditures required for carrying out
the railway operations and to execute the Investment Plan and
to carry out the Plan of Action satisfactorily in a timely manner
(para 5.19);
(k) N de M not to incur any debt, unless otherwise agreed with the Bank,
if the debt/equity ratio based on revalued fixed assets and
including the debt to be incurred is more than 45/55 (para 5.21);
and
(1) N de M to take all necessary actions to obtain such revenues
as shall permit it to cover, no later than 1988, all operating
costs and interest (para 5.22).
6.02      The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank 'oan of US$150
million to BANOBRAS with the Ferrocarriles Nacionales de Meiico as joint
borrower. The loan would be extended over 15 years, including a grace
period of three years.
November 20, 1980



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
A.    Distribution of Public Investment by Sector
(Percen':)
Sector                                               1972   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   19801/
Industry                                            41.8   33.4   30.7   34.1   39.6   43.6   42.6   47.1   43.2   41.6
Welfare                                              21.5   25.6   29.9   25.1   20.4   19.0   18.7   17.6   19.7   16.8
Agriculture and Rural Development                    14.8   14.3   13.4   16.0   17.3   14.1   17.6   19.0   21.1   21.7
Tourism                                               0.4    0.3    0.4    0.6    1.0    1.1    0.6    0.4    0.6    1.1
Administration and Defense                            1.2    3.5    1.7    1.6    2.0    4.0    2.6    1.7    1.7*   2.6
Communications                                        1.7    1.7    5.9    6.0    5.4    5.9    5.8    4.4    4.6    6.9
Transport                                            18.6   21.2   18.0   16.6   14.3   12.3   12.1    9.8    9.1    9.3
B.    Distribution of Public Investment within the Transport Sector
(Percent)
Mode                                                 1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980
Highways                                             63.4   67.5   64.4   50.6   48.3   55.3   57.8   59.8   44.7   43.2
Railways                                            22.6   15.1   22.2   28.4   34.2   35.8   30.6   27.0   35.7   35.0
Ports                                                 9.1    8.0   10.0    9.6   10.5    3.2    5.0    4.3    9.8    8.4
Aviation                                              4.9    9.4    3.4   11.4    7.0    5.7    6.6    8.9    9.8   13.4
* Estimates
1/ 1980 Budget
Source: Secretary of Programing and Budgeting
June 1980
H-



43 -                               TABLE 1.2
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary of Domestic Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode
Freight Transport
(billion ton-km)
Year                         Highways   Railways   Aviation   Water-/   Pipelines   Total
1970                           28.4        23.1         -        10.0          14.0      75.5
1971                           32.7        22.5         -         11.4         14.7      81.3
1972                           37.3        24.1         -         16.4         15.3      93.1
1973                           42.9        26.5         -        28.0          15.5     112.9
1974                           49.3        31.1         -        26.5          18.3     125.2
1975                           55.2        33.4         -        22.4         24.3      135.3
1976                           61.4        33.7         -        25.5         33.4      154.0
1977                           68.2        36.4         0.1      24.8          38.8     168.3
1978                           76.0        38.2         0.1      27.6         43.2      185.1
Annual Rate of Growth
1970-1978                    13.2%        6.5%       -         13.5%        15.3%      11.9%
Passenger Transport
(billion pass-km)
Year                         Highways2/ Railways   Aviation   Water        Total
1970                           72.8         4.5         1.5      0.1        78.9
1971                           80.4         4.4         1.7      0.1        86.6
1972                           88.9         4.5         2.4      0.1        95.9
1973                           98.1         4.1         2.7      0.1       105.0
1974                          108.5         4.6         3.4      0.1       116.6
1975                          119.8         4.1         4.1      0.1       138.1
1976                          129.9         4.1         4.7      0.1       138.8
1977                          137.7         5.0         4.6      0.1       147.4
1978                          150.0         5.2         5.4      0.1       160.7
Annual Rate of Growth
1970-1978                     9.5%        1.8%       17.4%      -          9.3%
1/ Of which some 90% is PEMEX traffic.
2/ Includes buses and private automobiles, each sharing roughly equally (50%) in the
traffic.
Source:  Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transportes, PEMEX,and Mission Estimates
June 1980



- 44 -
TABLE 2.1
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Staff Data-Evolution of N de M Staff Strength in Relation
to the Productivity per Worker
Net                               Traffic                       Traffic Units
ton-km           Passenger           Units          NdeM2          per Worker
Year        (millions)       Km (millions)       (millions)       Staff-/        (Thousands)
A                  B               C=A+B
1930         3,070                 904              3,974         45,561             87
1940        4,618                1,202              5,820         44,464            131
1950         7,458               2,223              9,681         57,993            167
1960       10,857                3,117             13,974         53,983            259
1970       18,099                3,435             21,534         58,880            366
1971       17,832                3,256             21,088         59,282            356
1972       19,412                3,286             22,698         60,230            377
1973       21,364                2,793             24,157         60,799            397
1974       25,457                3,115             28,572         61,323            466
1975       27,046                2,613             29,659         63,262            469
1976       26,832                2,508             29,340         63,381            463
1977       28,722                3,112             31,834         62,488            509
1978       29,650                3,295             32,945         62,493            527
1979       30,091                3,279             33,370         62,759            532
19801      34,700                3,280             37,980         62,980            603
1981       35,700                3,280             38,980         63,134            617
1982       38,000                3,280             41,280         63,579            649
l/  Figures from 1980 onwards have been adjusted in accordance with the
latest traffic projections.
2/ Details of staff by department are given on page 2.
Source: N de M, Plan de Recursos Humanos
May 1980



- 45 -
TABLE 2.1
Page 2 of 2
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Staff Data by Department
(No. of Posts)
Department                       1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981-1/   1982
TOTAL                       63,381   62,4       62,493   62,759   62,890   63,134   63,579
Board of Directors                   3         3        3         3         3        3         3
Manager's Office                   204       197      187       187       187      187       187
Legal                               41        41       39        39        39       39        39
Personnel                          163       163      162       162       162      162       162
Treasury                           188       188      186       186      186       186       186
Budget                             116       122      122       122      122       122       122
Accounting                       1,304    1,305    1,302    1,302    1,302    1,302    1,302
Data Systems                       132       127      131       131       131      131       131
Internal Audit                     100       96        96        96       96        96        96
Purchases                           78        79       79        79        79       79        79
Stores                             806      808       811       811      811       811       811
New York Office                      7         5        5         5         5        5         5
Tests and Analysis                 215       218      218       218       218      218       218
Technical                           75        75       75        75        75       75        75
Statistics                          27        27       22        22       22        22        22
Special Services                   187      187       187       187      187       187       187
Passenger Traffic                   60        60       60        60        60       60        60
Public Relations                    17        17       17        17        17       17        17
Freight Traffic                    165       165      151       151       151      151       151
Car Service                         33        33       33        33        33       33        33
Express                          3,040    2,967    2,925    2,925    2,925    2,925    2,925
Equipment Accounts                 118       119      119       119      119       119       119
Track & Structures              16,627   16,563   16,649   16,784   16,825   16,798   16,837
Track Machinery                    571       622      626       726       810      904       994
Motive Power                    18,028   17,605   17,611   17,611   17,611   17,611   17,611
Transportation                  15,321   14,794   14,697   14,697   14,697   14,868   15,178
Train Auditors                     325       311      311       311       311      311       311
Signal & Telecommunications    1,434    1,434    1,431    1,431    1,431    1,431    1,431
Medical Services                 2,665    2,719    2,720    2,720    2,720    2,720    2,720
Social Services                    288      288       288       288      288       288       288
Training Institute                 245       244      244       275       281      287       293
Administration                     145       144      144       144       144      144       144
Coordination Commission            653       614      614       614       614      614       614
Miscellaneous                                148      228       228       228      228       288
1/ Figures for years 1981 and 1982 are projections.
Source: N de M, Plan de Recursos
May 1980



- 46 -
MEXICO                                                     TABLE 2.2
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M-Current Motive Power and Rolling Stock Data
Up to
Years of Age
at end 1979                                5         10         15         20            25         30       35       40     Over 40   Total
Diesel Locomotive (SG)
600-1200 HP                              -          -          -            9            18        2       -         1       -             30
1310-1350 HP                                        -                      44            32        -        2        -       _             78
1500-1600 HP                             -           60                     I                      7       -         -                     68
1750-1800 HP                             -           42          1        179            53       13       -         -       -            288
2000-2250 HP                             143        -          -         -             -           _       _         _       _            143
2400-2750 HP                             -          -           68         56          -                                                  124
3000-3600 HP                             101        215         41       -             -           -       -         -                   357
Secondhand, 2800-300 HP                   53(SH)   -           -         -             -           -       -         -       _             53
Total (SG)                            297        317        110        289           103       22      2         1        -         1,141
Narrow gauge 600 HP                      -            3          7          8          -           -       -         _       -             18
Grand total                           297        320       117        297            103      22       2         1        -         1,159
FreightCrars (SG)
Box cars                               6,624      1,639      1,915      3,040         5,519       29    406       299       39        19,510
Gondolas                               4,795      2,131      1,216        802           134      172     63        13       96         9,422
Cattle cars                              -          -           18        191            91        -       -         -     144           444
Hopper cars, open                        201        -          214         76           153      271       -         -      18           915
Hopper cars, covered                     -           55         80         42            12       14       -         -       -           203
Flat cars                                300        -           47        116           172        -       7        1      112           755
piggy-back cars                           48         53         60       ---                               --                -           161
Tank cars                                412        250        -                                           _        _      654         1,316
Caboose                                  232         89         36         94           132       22     32        17        4           658
12,612     4,217      3,586      4,361          6,213     508    508        330   1,067         33,384
Passenger Cars (SG)
Express and mail                          29         17         32        118            47       12     97        19       78           449
Second class                             140        -          -            3             1       65     35         3      121           368
First,/Second class                      -          _-                                             I       -         -      10            11
First class                               60        -          -         -             -          29       -        -       69           158
Sleeping  ~   ~       ~        --                             -9                       86      62        10       25           192
Sleeping                                 -              SH)      3(SH)      6(5SH)        2       20     40        16       66           158
229         22        35        127             59     213    234         48     369          1,336
Source: N de M
May 1980



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M - Freight Traffic 1970 - 1979
T h o u s a n d    N e t    T o n s                                                      M i l 1 i o n    N e t    T o n - i1 o m e t   r s
Petroleum                                                                                 Petroleum
Agricultural   Mineral        and         Inorganic    Industrial                        Agricultural    Mineral         and        Inorganic    Industrial                        Average
Year      Products     Products   Derivatives      Products     Products      Other    Total       Products       Products   Derivatives      Products     Products      Other    Total      Haul
(kin)
1970        7,516       10,028       4,800          5,267         9,987        726    38,324         3,835        4,652         2,065         1,344          5,696        508    18,100      472
1971        7,405       11,057       4,827          5,863         9,701       614    39,467          3,345         5,332        2,089          1,412         5,228        420    17,832      452
1972        7,861       11,557       5,270          5,791        10,820        537    41,836         3,573         5,435        2,447          1,535         6,046        364    19,412      464
1973        8,258       11,788        5,465         6,365        11,927        555    44,358         4,430         5,271        2,471          1,574         7,205        417    21,364      482
1974        9,954       13,717       6,186          7,862        13,273        708    51,700         5,103         6,568        2,733          1,824         8,662        561    25,457      492
1975       10,790       11,394       6,813          6,920        15,753        580    52,250         5,307         6,792        3,108          1,988         9,282        570    27,047       518   >
1976        9,436       11,618       7,201          6,155        16,432       479    51,321          4,803         7,348        3,135          1,939         9,200        414    26,839       523
1977       10,481       13,170       6,477          6,470        17,337        942    54,877         5,955         7,762        2,617          2,238         9,512        651    28,735       524
1978       10,199       13,797        5,645         6,435        19,543        606    56,225         5,502         7,890        2,212          2,388        11,163        506    29,639       527
1979        9,539       14,436       4,248          6,920        19,084        556    54,783         5,528         8,105        1,818          2,610        11,581        449    30,091       549
Source: N de M
June 1980



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M Freight Traffic Forecasts
(1978-1979 Actuals and 1980-1985 Forecast)
Net tons (million)                                                 Net ton-kilometers (billion)
1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985        1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Agricultural Products               10.2     9.5    13.3    11.6    12.1    12.7    13.3    14.0         5.5      5.5     7.9     6.8      7.1     7.4      7.8     8.2
Corn                            2.5     1.7     3.4      2.3     2.3     2.5      2.6     2.7       1.3     0.9      2.0     1.3      1.3     1.5      1.5     1.5
Sorghum                         1.9     2.0     2.8      2.3     2.4     2.3     2.4      2.6       1.4      1.6     2.1     1.7      1.8     1.7     1.8      1.9
Wheat                           1.6     1.8     2.5      2.5     2.6     2.9      3.1     3.3       1.0      1.0     1.6     1.6      1.7     1.8      2.0     2.1
Oleaginous Seeds                0.9     1.0     1.1      0.9     0.9     0.9      1.0     1.0       0.6     0.6      0.8     0.6      0.7     0.7     0.7      0.7
Other                           3.3     3.0     3.5      3.6     3.9     4.1     4.2      4.4       1.2      1.4     1.4     1.6      1.6     1.7      1.8     2.0
Mineral Products                    13.8    14.4    17.4    18.6    20.7    22.3    23.1    24.3         7.9      8.1    11.3    11.9    12.6    13.9    15.0    16.2
Coal                            2.9     2.8     3.8     4.0      4.5     5.4      5.5     5.6       0.4     0.3      0.6     0.6      0.7     1.7      1.8     1.8
Coke                            1.2     1.2     1.2      1.2     1.4     1.5      1.6     1.7       0.5      0.5     0.6     0.6      0.7     0.7      0.8     0.8
Iron ore                        7.0     7.8     9.5    10.1    11.3    11.6    12.0    12.7         5.0      5.3     7.8     8.1      8.4     8.6      9.3    10.2
Other                           2.7     2.6     2.9      3.3     3.5     3.8     4.0      4.3       2.0      2.0     2.3     2.6      2.8     2.9      3.1     3.4
Petroleum and its Derivatives        5.6     4.2    4.6      4.7      4.8     4.9      5.1     4.0       2.2      1.8     2.0     2.0     2.0      1.9      2.0     1.5
Crude oil                       3.5     2.4     2.4     2.4      2.4     2.3      2.4     1.0       1.3      1.0    1.1      1.1     1.1      0.9      0.9     0.4
Diesel                          0.9     0.8     1.0      1.1     1.2     1.2      1.3     1.5       0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.4     0.4
Other                           1.2     1.0     1.2      1.2     1.3     1.4      1.4     1.5       0.6     0.5      0.6     0.6      0.6     0.7      0.7     0.7
Inorganic Products                   6.4     6.9      6.6     7.5     8.4     8.1      8.4     8.8       2.4      2.6     2.4      2.6     3.0     2.7      2.9     3.1
Limestone                       1.9     2.2     2.5     3.0      3.2     3.4     3.4      3.4       0.2     0.2      0.2     0.3     0.3      0.3     0.3      0.3
Other                           4.5     4.7     4.1     4.5      5.2     4.7      5.0     5.4       2.2      2.4     2.2     2.3      2.7     2.4      2.6     2.8
Industrial Products                 19.5    19.1    18.1    20.5    22.2    24.2    26.5    28.8        11.2    11.6    10.8    12.0    13.0    14.2    15.4    16.6
Sugar                           1.4     .4 1     .4      1.5     1.7     1.8      1.9     2.0       0.7     0.7      0.7     0.8      0.8     0.9     0.9      1.0
Cement                          5.3     4.7     4.3      5.4     5.7     6.3      7.1     8.0       1.2      1.1     0.9     1.1      1.2     1.3      1,5     1.7
Fertilizer                      2.9     2.9     3.9      5.0     5.7     6.2      6.7     7.2       1.9      1.8     2.8     3.3      3.7     4.0     4.4      4.7
Other                           9.9    10.1     8.1      8.6     9.1     9.9    10.8    11.6        7.4      8.0     6.4     6.8      7.3     8.0      8.6     9.2
Other                                0.5     0.5     0.4      0.4     0.4     0.4      0.4     0.4       0.5      0.4     0.      0.4      0.4     0.4      0.3     0.3
Total                               56.1    54.7    60.4   63.6    68.6    72.2    76.8    80.3         29.7    30.1    34.7    35.7    38.0    40.5    43.4    45.9
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
June 1980



49 -                              TABLE 2.5
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M's Passenger Traffic
Average
Passengers             Passenger-km              Distance
(million)                (million)                 (kin)
1960                         26.9                    3,117.4                   116
1965                         33.4                    2,984.2                    89
1970                         33.2                    3,435.2                   103
1971                         29.3                    3,255.5                   111
1972                         29.2                   3,286.2                    113
1973                         23.9                    2,793.1                   117
1974                         20.2                   2,617.2                    131
1975                         19.5                   2,612.7                    134
1976                         19.1                   2,507.6                    131
1977                         22.3                    3,112.0                   140
1978                         22.2                   3,295.4                    148
1979                         18.7                   3,279.0                    176
Source: N de M
June 1980



0,0,0,                                        440040,0,             4'440,      0,0,0,0,          0                          -              40,040,0, 0,
0,0,0,40,0,0,040,440,0,     0, 0,0,0,-nO' .50,0,040,0,0,440000,0,0,00,  0034.5-.44            440,0,0,0,0,44440  0,0,040,0,0,040,0,  0,0,0,0,0,00,440,00,0,0,0,
0,  00,0,     o0,0,0,0,0,'44.-r-040,0, 0,  0,0,0,40,40,0,'-.0,0,0, 0,40,40,0,00,0,0,0,0.00,0,0,                0,o40,0,0,0, 0.4  0,4n0,0,g0,0,0,      0,0,40,0,  0,40,0,0,0,0,444   4
0, 0,       0,     000,0,044           0,0,0,  0,40,0,0,  0,0'        0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0'  0, 0           0,0,0,     0,440,  0,40,0,  0,.4.4     0,0,0,               0,    -0
0, 0,       0,     0,0,  0,0,4         40,00,0,440,0,                    0, 0,440        0,                -                 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,                          -
-                  0,   0,0,           40,40,0,0,                            0, 0,       -                                   0,  04  0,  0,                                   44
0, 0,0,0,                                         '-'40,40,            0,4.40,  0, 0,440,             0,                        0,     0,0,440,0,0,0,0,0,0,4  400,  4
0,0,0,.40,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0,0,0,40,0,0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,"0,0,0,40,0,0, 0,0,0,00,00,0,00,0,0,0,0,  40,0,440,000,  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,      0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,  S
0,0,40,0,0,0,0,4-0,40,440,0,40,.-. 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,    40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,       0,0,0,0,00,0,40,  0,0,.-.00,  4
0,)           0,0,        ..0,0,0,00,     0,0,   -40,0,0,0,0,-        -0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,  0, -              '-'0,0,   0,40,  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,      0,0,0,              0,
0,           0,'               -                         0,0,40,0,0,                               .        .  -             -                                        -                         0
0,                         0,0,  -  0,0,0,0,0           4  0, 0-0,        -s  -             -                 o0,,-0,0,0,0,0,                           0,
0,   -             0,    0,0,          4   0,   .0,   .4    0,  0,           0,    0,    -                                   0,    0,4  4  0,                                  0
41
0, 0,0,0,                                         0,0,0,0,,-,          -40,0,0,  0,  0,0,0,0,        0,                         0,     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,000,00,  0,0,  4
0,.4      0,0,4'-0,0,0,0,0,    0,0,    0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,40,40,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,-0,0,0,0,   0,0,0,0,40,0,00,  0,0,0,0,0,  40,4     0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,
0,  0,0,0,    0,00,  0,0,40,<440,         0,0,0,.40,.-, 0, 0,0,0,0,0,,-0,0,0,  0,.-.0,0,0,00,0, 0,0,0,0,00,0,0,  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  40,0,0,0,  00,  0,0,0,0,00,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0
0, 4-0,         0,     0,0,                0,0,0,   0,0,-C   0,0,      0,440,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0, 0,            00,0,      0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,       0,0,0,0,0,           0,     4
-0,0,                           -                      -        -  -              -                             -          -                  -      4
-                0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,                           0,      0
4  0,    0,  0,               4    0      -                                   0,   0,   0,    0,
0, 0,0,0,                                         00,-0,4              0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,             0,                         0,     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,
0,0,0,    0,0,0,0,0,40,44    0,0,      0,0,0,40,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,4  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,   4
0,  0,40,     -00,0,0,0,0,0, <<0,0,        000,440,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,40,0,0,40,0,0,40,0,0,000,0,0,          0,0,0,  0,0,0,0,0,  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,4   0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,
0, 40,0,        0,     0,0,0,0,0,.-..40,   0,0,0,  0,0,40,0,  44       0,0,400,0,440,0,0,  0, 0               0, 0,      0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,        0,00,    -           0,    0,
-      -    -0,0,                                                           -   -                                                      -                  -      0
0,             0,  0,                  0, 40,0,        0,                0, 0,       0,                                  0,  0, 0, 0,                                      0
0,    0,  0,               0,0,4  0,  0,40,  0,0,        0, 0,  0,0,0,       0,  -            0,                0,40,0,0,0,0,0,        0,
0, 0,0,0,                                         40,0,0,0,            0,0,4-0,  40,00,              0,                         0,     0,0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0,0   0
0,0,0,    0,0,0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,40,     40,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,400,0,0,0,000,0,0,4.40,    0,0,040,0,0,0,4  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,4     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0,
0,  0,0,0,    40,0,  40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,   0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,    0,40,0,0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,  0,0,40,0,0,0,0,4  0,40,0,00,0,4     0,40,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,
0, 40,0,        0,     0,0,0,0,40,40,      0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,440,00,     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0, 0,           0,40,0,0,40,0,00,0,0,440,              0,0,0,               5       0
2
0,   0,0,          40,40,0,    0,                        40,         0,
0,0,          40,0,  0, 040   0,0,           4  0, 0,0,        0, 0,             -                 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,       4
4-.                    0, 4.40,4                                          0,0,0,0,0,          0,00,0,  0, 0,0,00,            0,                        0,      00,0,0,0,0,0,040,0,0,0,0,   4
00,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,   0,0,0,0,0000,0,0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,00,0,0,440,0,0,0,00,0,0,0,40,       40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,440,      0, 0,40,0, 0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,
0,4  0,)            0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,000,0,      0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,    0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,00,0,40,0,0,0,0,  0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,40,00,       0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,440,40,   4
0,     0,'                                                                   -   -                                                      -                  -      0
0,      0,  0,0,0,        -     .. 0,0,0,0,0,4      0,0,0,.0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,     0,40,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,  0  0             0."0,.-..0,00,0,0,40, 40,0,0,           0,40,               0,     '0
.4             0,    0,   22                      -                                                                            0, 0,0,  0, 0,                                   0,
0,   0,0,          0,0,   0, 0,40,  0,0,         0, 0, 0,0,0,        0, 0,             -                 0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,       0,
0,   -      0,               '          -                                                                                     0
0                              0, 440,                                           0,40,0,0             0,40,0  0, 0,0,0,0,           0,                         4      0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0,0,  0
0,                                                                     -                             0,                                                                                           0
0,40,     0,0,4-0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,      0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,040,0,000,0, 40,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,    0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0,400,0,0,0,0,     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,  .0,
44      0, 0,0,0,      0,0,4  40,40,400,0,0,        0,00,0,0,0,  0,0,0,0,40,40,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,      0,0,0,40,40,0,0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,        0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,40,   4
0,  40,0       0,      0,0,0,0,0,0,44      40,40,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,       -40,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0, 0,             0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,          0,00,                        0,
-        2                     0,   0,0,           40,0,44             0,               4  .5        -                                  0,0,40,0,
0-.                      0,    0,   0,0,            40,0,  0,0,0,40,0,0,          -  0, 40,4         0,                                  00,0,0,0,00,0,         4                  -       4
0
-  0,0,4                                          0,0,0,0,0,           0,0,0,0,  0, 0,0,0,0,         4                          0,     0,0,0,0,0,0,40,40,0,0,  0,0,  0,
40,0,                                 44'40,0,00,0,0,4'40,40,0'4.450,fl0,<00,                         0,0,0,0,0,0,0,404040,440,
0,440,0,         -0,400,40,0,40,0,  0, 0,              0,40,440,0,  0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,          0,0,0,               4       0
0,             :-.-"--    '-'                                              -
0,40  00,0,40,  40,              0, 00,0,        4                                   0,0,0,0,0,0,00,
4  0               0,   0,0,           0,0,40,0,    0,                       4  4        4                                  0, 0,4  4  0,
0, 40,0,                                          0,0,0,0,0,           0,0,0,0,  4  0,0,0,0          0                          0,     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,.-.
0,0,0,    0,0,0,.-0, 0,0,0,0,0,0,00,   0,0,0,40,40,0,0,400,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0, 0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,40,   0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,  40,0,400,00,0,      0,0,00,0,40,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,
0,0,0,  40,0,0,440,0,0,      0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,40,    0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,   0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0, 0,0,0,00,00,       0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0
0,             0,                  00,40,0,  0, 0,             0,0,0,0,440,  0,0,0,0,00,0,0,          0,00,                0,      0
0,    .50,00,0004          0,0,0,040,0,0,040,0,0,      0,0,0,0,0.5
0,0,          0,0,0,  0,0,0,40,  40,            0  0,0,0,       4                                  0,0,0,0,0,0,44                             0,
-  0               0,   40,            0,0,0,0,0,    0,                     0, 0,       0,                                  0, 4 0, 4  0,
0,0,0,0,0,0          0,0,0,0,  0, 0,00,0,         0,                         0,     0,40,40,0,0,0,000,0,0,0,
0, 0,0,0,.....4'
0,0,0,    0,0,0,0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,    0,40,440,0,40,0,40,40,40,0,0,0,40,0, -0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,440,       0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,       0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,40   0
0  0,44       0,0,0,  0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,    0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  440,0,0,00,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,  0,40,0,0,0,0,0,  0,000,0,0,0,0,0,     0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,
0,  440,        4      0,0,0,0,00,04       0,0,0,40,0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0    ..0,0,0,0,0,0,0,40,0,0,  0,            0, 0,0,40,0,  00,0,0,0,0,0,4           0,0,4                0,    0,
.2             0,    0,   0,0,            0,0,0,  0,  0,40,                    40,0,       4
5                                4'                  0                                  0,    .-40
4                                0,                  4    0      0                      00000                    0,
0,                 .4  04       4                      0044                     4
0                  0  40,       0                      00004
0,44       o                      0-4440,                  4
04                   400,0,           414040         00                     0      -'- 00  '--  .-.40  0  0.4000  0
0,          00                   4040                04        044                      40
0       4044                     400,4             00,444      4-so                    0,0    4       0          0,
4        0000                      040            '.j4  0,      004                     '00    0      40
4044-'                  0404           0  4400,04   40                         00     0      -440,     0,
040.0,40   4                             4        0-0,0,          4  4                  0    000,00    4                       44    4       4-oO
0,040   4  4                             4        44               0  0  04              4    04044   0,  0,           0         4      0        40       -
-4000   0  '                             0        4-40  4          4  0 0.4                                                                     4         0,0
004.0-0-00,40,                                 0           4  4          0  0  0             4404.4Y.0,'-'  04040         --      .54       0      0440,   00
440.40,0,0,0,  0,                                      0  --  0400004           44            Oo      '444   '00,44         0          0      4        0000  0,4
040,0400   0                                4        0  0  440444         0, 04           .4000,4             400         0'       0               4  400,  .00
0, 0 - 4 0,000000 4. 4 0,0-4 040,4 0-JO 0 40, 00
..0...'4444004   4                             0 00044'.44  004   0, 04                      000  '4'          4'''                 400       4      -40040   44
00,0,0'-4-0,4-4- 4 40 0440,0,000,0, 0.0 40440, 0 440, 44 440,40, 04
0             440,0       -    0                             40   00,4  4  40,00,440   4  -40,             0  400           -.            '4      044       40    -440,44
0             444.40004         0                            00,0,40   .0, -440,40,40   0    0,             4  04           0,             0      4  0      00,444-50   0  00,
54            '-.--04444                                    00.0.44   0,0  444440,           40           400   4          0,                   04         44.0044000,  40,
00,                44-4-40 44                     044400000000,                           0 0,4           4040             0   4   4   40,    000,40440,0
0,5           0,   40000   0,0                    0000004.0,40444'0040                 0  4  00,           '440,4            4      40    5      40,0       40-40,  040,4  40,
0       004        444.    0,4                  0,00000''''4-404440                  0,  004             0    00,         4       -44    0       -40     00440   0    4
00,        04...    444404   4                    0000004             00440              o4044             4    4                   4-40.4        400,      -04000   04  44
4         004    0,        040,4                                             44        00  0,40           ..   44           o      44444        44           4F'44-..0040  00
00        0,0,4    0,040,4-404         000000                                40,       0,00000.           4    04           4       0  404  0  0,0,4        '44'' 04040,  44
0,0.0,     0,00    40000404            0,0,0,0,0,04          4        ''0   44         000-4               0    40,                 00-040   0  4  04        04    40   44  40,
440       040      040,4444            0,00,0,004           0,                4        44-44  0,0          4    44          0        40,04  --  040         00    44440  -
04 -0-4 4440444' 0,000000 F'0 4 0 0 4 0-044 0 04
4     0,         4  000        00       4400    4
400        4004   0,4044004                       4  0,4   -,-                0  00,0000000                4    0.4          0      00440,  4  40.0,        -00,   4  0.00  '40
044     -4-404   4''444-0,4                     40,0--  40,                    0,4040,4004              0    44           4        40..    0  0  0        0      00     0  00
4.444             0      4          0440,00                   0,000.440   04               4    0                   400,0  0,  0.0            4    04540.   4
0  4000,           40,      0          004   404                   0000000, .000                     0           4       04440   4    0,4        40,   40-0        00
4-  .444           4        0, 40      00,4040                     440,040. 0,0,0,0            4    4            0,      0  00    4  440         00    04' 0.4  40
O 4 440,4 0, 0,4 4 0,4 0.40,40,44 4040 4 4 .,- 0, 44 00 0, 040. 0.4 00,4 0 --'4 0,
0         0,  400,0        0  00,      440,40,  ''''0                      444        00004             0    4           4       0000    0,  0,0           4    0000. 44
4         44  '4-'       4  00,       04.00   5             0                '40,       0,0,440          4    4            0      4  coo.  4    4                 0040,    44   0
4         040             0,  04       4404 F' 0,            4                              0  0,          4    0           4      04    0       4.5        .54    0.4    4 -00,  0
0.        40,4    4        0  00       40,440                4                   4       44444            0    0            '4      4400         0,44         0       440,  -
0          ' , 0    0         040 I 0,0440440                                     0     0,0  00                 4                    0,440   0  '00         00,   0000'  0'  0,
444      4     0,  0,0,  0'  444440,4             4                    0      0,40,04       I 0,    0           4.-    04000,  0  40,4          4      0,044444           0
4         04'              0        01  4         -.4        0                           0  0          4' 0    0,           0      00o00   0  4  -0    -44    00          0  00
0,     4  0,0,4    4          04  -,.4 .4        44          0,                   4      00   44       0'                            0    4  -0  044        4044440,               -- 0,
0,  000,   0,          0,0  -4'          00           0                   0,      0,0,40,0,     0, 4.   o            4-    4-  0,0,4  0  00,0        0,    040,0,4  00   0  4
0  440,    0,             00   0  4         0,         0        0  0  0    0,      4040,0       - 0,    0            0,     0,0004     2f5         54    440,0,00,0, 0,  00-4   -4  44   4  F'  0,4  .4  -.-.  440,0,4  440400,44   4
4      0  000      0          44                -4           0        0  J  0    0       44004            4    0            4      44004   0  00,4          40    44040           0  4
0      F  004      4          44                  0          0                   4       04044            4    0,           4      00    0  0. 040          04    444-40-    0  0
O      4.  0.0,0.   0,        '444                F'        0,                   4      0<0, 4o4      0  4    0,           0,     0,400,0' 0, 0.0.4        40,   0.0,0,0,0. -l   o  '4



M4EXICO
F0URTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de _   18 - vet-t Pro9ram 1981 - 1985 ae,d Proiwot 1981 =- 198.3
1981                       1982                         1983                           1984                            1995                        1981-83                      =191-85
L     F       ~~      ~~T  L     F         2         L        F                   LF                    T        L           F         T        L          F                                     2 
A.  WAY  &WO0RKS TRACKS
Ranewo-attIh ne-ril(k )I                   374.7    299.5      674.2   365.4    292.1       657.1    377.5    300.6    678.         357       353.7   735.4    373.7         342.3    710.01,117.6    892.2  7,009.8  1,876.5  1,598.7  3,464.7
-ih  rcvrdrl16)                     786         -        8.6    6.6         6         6.6      615         -       61.5     71.7                791.7     75.1          -       70.1    206.7         -      267      3.5                 353.5
Station Y.Idn                               30.0        -       30.0    30.0        -        30.0      30.0        -       30.0     30.0         -      30.0      30.0          -       30.0      90.0        -       90.0    150.0                150.0
Maneac   q.ipw,a 0.t0.0    140.0    160.0    20.0    140.0                            160.0      20.0    100.0    160.0       20.0      140.0   160.0       20.0       140.0    160.0       60.0    420.0    480.0    100.0    700.0    800.0
Sahitatl                      503.3    439.5    T42.8   487.0    432.1    '914.1          8950    '4-0         9Z     5074        93.  1001          95.3      -4-82.3    98_0.6  147.3 1,31.22,7286.3                    2.288.2  47_68.2
BRIDEGS-St-egth.ni.,                       120.0        -      120.0   120.0        -       120.0    120.0                120.0    170.0               170.0    120.0-                 120.0    389.0         -      360.0    800.0         -     600.0
BUILDING WO8RKS
En yards                        ~~~~~~      ~~~~~~102.0     100.0   120.0 -      120.0    140.0         -      140.0    160.0          -    160.0    180.0-                 180.0    360.0         -      360.0    700.0                700.0
In  Iokhp                                14  0.              140.0 100.0           -       100.0    100.0         -     1000    100.                 IGO000    100.0           -     100.0    340.0          -     340.0    140.0         -      540.0
Staff  ccendotlon                           70.0        -       70.:0    70.0                 70.0     70.0 0              70.0      70.0 0             70.0      70.0 0                70.2    210.0         -      210.0    350.0         -      350.0
H-alth Center-                              16.0       4.0      20.0    16.0       4.0       20.0        --                            -         -             -          -               -       32.0       8.0.    40.0       32.0       8.0      40.0
WeIghing pl.tforto.                           3.0      1.5       4.5      3.0       1.5        4.2       3.0      1.3       4.5       3.0        1.5     4.5       3.0         1.5       4.5       9.0       4.5      13.5      15.0       7.5      22.5
Wat-r 4 f.ol  q5oipm-t                       2.6        -        2.6      2.6        -         2.0      2.6       -.        7.6       2.6         -      2.6       2.6-                  2.6        7.8        -       7.8      13.0        -       13.0
S.bt.t.1                     331.6       0.5    337.1   3711.6       5.5      317.1    315.6                                      =535T 35.  _    3 37-.1    3_55.6  ~   371       988        1.        7.          ~       1,    .6
SIGNALLING, COMMNIONCATIONS4
ELECTRICAL
RaIo co=     iattin-                        30.0      20.0      50.0    30.0      20.0       50.0      30.0      70.0      50.0      30.0      20.0    50.0       30.0        20.0      50.0      90.0      60.0    150.0    150.0    100.0    250.0
L-ve  -ran  prote-tion eqUlipeet             6.0        -        6.0      8.0        -        8.0      10.0        -       10.0      12.0         -   .12.0       15.0           -      15.0      24.0         -      24.0      51.0        -       51.0
Ceirolleed1:ty  raffici  co...trol           79.0    150.0    229.0    75.0    150.0        275.0      75.0    150.0    225.0        31.0      150.0   525.0      35.0       150.0    225.0    225.0    450.0    639.0    379.0    350.0  1,025.0
EctIiy4lghting                     4.                   25      6.  62.5                                62.5-          62.5 8.                  62.5     62.5-                  62.5    187.5         -     16.       325                 325
Sohiotal             ~~~~~~~177.3    170.0    347.5   175.5    170.0   345.5    T57       T5o       3 47.5    175.-5    170.0o  349.5    182.5         T576-o    75 5~  530.5    510.0  1.  7.5          82.5    850. 1.742.5
TOTAL WAY &, WORKS                       1,132.4    615.0  1,747.4 1,089.1    607.6   1,696.7  1,102.1    612.1  1,1.   1 142.5               665.2 1,807.   1,156.4         653.0  1,810.2  3,323.8    ,3.   5,158.3  5,622.5  3,153.7  8,776.2
B. MUTAVE POWERS& ROLLING STOCKI
DIETSEL LOCOS
Ne  notn                                           2,369,5  2,389.25            1,203.6   1,203.6             1,203.6  1,203.6         -    1,203.6 1,203.6         -      1,203.6  1,203.6          -   4,776.7  4,776.7         -   7,183.9  7,183.9
Reha itltioclo   -olilta  -oiet.                     100.0    1010 0.0             00.0a    100.0        -      100.0    100.0         -       100.0   100.0        -        100.0   1L00.0          -     300.0    300.0o               500,0    500.0
S.botal.t.140.                                                  1,3036_      336               a~03.6        3          -    1,303.03.6   3.       ,~       1,303.6  1.303.6         - 5,076.7  5,076.7            -       83.A9 
PASSENGER 4 FREIGHT CARS
F-eight cor-hba                         1,77 7.7     172.3  1,950.0 1,180.1    114.9   1,300.0  1,422.1    137.9  1,560.0  1,422.1             137.9 1,560.0  1,552.1         137.9  1,690.0  4,384.9    429.1  4,810.0  6,832.5  1,227.5  8,060,0
-    -nol,odinay        993.1      156.9  1,050.0   297.9       47.1      345.0  1,191.7    188.3  1,380.0  1,191.7         188.3 0,380.0  1,291.0         204.0  1,495.0  2,482.7    392.3  2,875.0  5,051.0    699.0  5,750.0
-gndla  tpIg-                      68.8      688        -         -          -         --   -         -         -         -                                   -         -         -       6.         88         -       803       60.3
-flat, SOP                                     - -   -        -     187.5      187.5         -        -         -         -          -        -  -  -  -                                      187.5    107.5         -      187.5    187.5
-aa    hopper              237.1       42.9    280.01,659.5    300.5   1,960.0  1,195.3    214.7  1,4000 01,185.3              214.7 1,400.0  1,185.3         214.7  1,400.0  3,081.9    558.   3,640.0  5,474.0    966.0  6,44  0.
-cag  e                                 133.7    133.:7       -     164.5      145      -164.5          164     .5    16           4.: 5  164 .         -       164.5    164.5          -     482.17   462.7                5568.3    5508.3
-tack                           -       15155 55.9            -     104.0      104.0        -         -         -                    -        -        --                     -         -     259.9    259.9          -     220.0    220.0
-hallasts hopper                -       103.0   .003.90       -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -        -        ---                                    103.0    103.0  .      -       87.3      87.5
Sparc ohetlo And ceten            ~     ~ ~~---  --                      68.9.9       9         -      73.7      7371-                           -                                                42.6    142.6          -     111.6    111.6
Suhbtotl                3,007.9       3.   3.        3,142j.5.    087.4   4,129.9  3,799.1    779.1  4,578.2  3,9.             705.4 430       4, 0728.4     721v!  4,749.5  9,5949.5                                  4_000.r       3 _.Qj5
woprSNOFOp HAIINERY.                       80.0      150.0    230.0    80.0    120.0         200.0      80.0    120.0    200.0       80.0      120.0   200.0       80.0       120.0    200.0    240,0    390.0    630.0    600.0    630.0  1.030.0
TOTAL MOTVE POWER 4 ROLLING STOCK   3.08.          343.0  6.34.  3,2.5  2.41              5,3.5   3,879.1  2.20171. 6,081.8  3,879.1   2,2.   ,0.   4,108.4    2,144.7  6,253.1 10,189.5  8,06,  18.2_56,2 la _7 7. 012_4.43574
C.  PROJECT RSTLDIES & CONSULTANT2S             13.        16.1     29.1    15.0       16.1       31.1      18.0      13.8      31.8     70.0         -      20.0      22.0          -       22.0           46.0 460       92.0      88.0     46.0    134.0
TOTAL COO   Iewcladng contl8eeelws34,482.5   4,090.1  8,75.6j 4,5.   3,040.7   7,596.5  5,248.4  2,834.6  8,083.0  5,310.8                              Si5.51.  2,0.5835.   4.8t   !L24,252A1  ~4                          _01.a 40,18.
CONTINGENCILS-Phy.ica1-5% -anPt
on lanes 6 cars             ~~~~~      ~~74.2  39.6    113.6    71.1  37.5    108.6      72.9      37.6    110.5       78.0       39.6   115.6       76.7        39.0    115.7    218.2    114.5    332.7    370.9    193.1    564.0
-Frice8 2        ~~~~1,521.9   600.5  2,122.4 2,6.         723.5   3,289.1  4,198.4    920.7  5,118.7  5.450.1 1167665.    7,209.6    1,449.0  8,658.6  8 855      26   10 530.2 25.983.2  46g3.4 25  4R6
-Totai                 1,56.1       63.9) 12,536.0 2636.57   761.0   3  _3947..742709                 53 229.2                                   - Ss                         ~,.,,   ....,..,       ~     2  5         S~    t'
US$ (US$l.O.M1$23.0)(n)  264.3       205.6    469.9   312.7    165.3        478.0    413.9    166.9    578.8    472.9          174.3   647.2    558.2         186.6    764.8    990.9    935.8  1.526.7  2,022.0    896.7  2,918.7
No cfor Projct period 1981.1983 are,  Reeeal wIth ne  roil   782 keo;  -sowa  with r -ovrd rsil .559 k.; Di ...S 1.ceentLo-n...   . iets   262; Fr-i8ht -a-b-h - 3,700;8edol., ordinary - 2,500; gondola, tippihg -64;
flat, , NP   125; grain hopper   2,6001  -shoose    225; task . 200; bhllost hopper = 70; ep-r  wheels ad oales = 12,000.
- Cast .aIti-t.  -re ba...d an  id 1980 PrI..s.  The fol11wiag pins cantinge..oi.  hve heen taken lteto -id-rtio..
19e1981  1982  1983  1986  1985
11.5   -20   -17   -15    13   -13
5.35    9      8     7      7      7
*r.s  canned half  fP 1988
ore:N de M
oatoha- 1980



FOURTH RLAILWAY FROJECT
SCT Infratrut- re Works 1981-1985
(Costs as at sod 1979 io Mox$  illikoo)
Total                             To tal
-1981                          1982     -                      1983                            1984                           1985                         19 81-1983                        1981-1985
Stow                                 L         F          T         L          F         T          L         F          T         L           F         T         L         F       T           L        F            T           L        F         T
WORK IN FROGRRESS
Ooo-h-ton-Qoort...                            75      425        500      -         -          -         -          -         -          --                    -         -                 -75                   425          500          75      425       500
L-h-irl-Jaltoras-Tootihoac..o                 69       98        165      -         -          -         -          -         -          --                    -         -         -       -69                    86          165          69        96      165
LosR.    r-.  oa  Olrd-o                     487       95        508 0                                                                                                                                  407       95          500         407        93      500
Aynoe-Calt-otaio                             246       44       290       -                    -         -          -         -          -                     -         -         -       -246                   44          290         24 6      44       290
Oayols-Ciodad Os-oa                          125       70       195       -         -          -                    -         -          --                    -                          -125                    78          195         125        70      193
Subtotal                                922       728    L 650                                                         -           -           -                   -         --                   922       728       1.650         922       728    1,650
NEW W0010 - RELOCATION
l7osrataro-Srsooto               ~~~~     ~~362  370  732       415        73        488                                                                                                    777       443        1,220         777      443    1,228
Orioaba-Faoo dot Macho                       231      169       400        170         30       200      -          -         -          --                    -         -        -        -401                  199          600         401      199       600
Tiorr - O- soos-Medias AS oos                 69       16         85      -         -          -         -          -         -          --                    -         -        -        -69                    16           85          09        16       85
Mrdi.o Agoao-Coata.....lc..                   07        33       140                                                                                                                                     8                       7  53  140  87      33      140
Jsltonan-looeb,uotota           ~     ~    ~~- 40     40         69        46        400      -8                                                                                               9       56          145          89        56      145
SalitiIlo-Mostorry                            65      130       200        230        45        300       238         42       280       --                              -        -       -558                   222          780         550      222       780
Tsotibo..ao-OSn~ Marro-Los ERyos             240      150       300        170         30       200      -          -         -          --                    -         -        -        -410                  180          090         410      180       590
AP15500F1151)bo                               74       40        120      -         -                    -          -         -          --                    -         -        -        -74                    46          120          74       40       120
To1o-s-Ar-nb-r                              -        -          -         -                                225       175       400        425          75       500      -        -        -225                  170          400         650       200      900
M..iro-Tolo-                                -        -          -         -          -         -           850       190     1,000        650         150     1,000       850       150  1,000          000      150        1,000       2,550      450    3,000
Rosits-T.pi.                                                                                              246        154       400        272         40        320      -        -                     246      154          400         515      202       720
Subtotal                              t-128      979     Z2L107       1,09        94     S,293      1,559       521      200       1_47          273     1.820       050       150  1 00       32786   1,94            5,480       6_183   2,117   8.300
NEW YARDS
0eohoot~~~~~~~~ta                5~~~40     60       400        5839      211        600       120        480       600       -          -8                                                  49       751        4,600         849      7951   1,600
o-t-rry                                      340        60       400       389        211       600        120       480        600      -           -         -         -         -                    849      751        1,600         849       751    1,600
Go-daajar-                                   272       48       520        280        120       400         80       520       400       -6                                                              32      480        1,120         632      480    1,120
Coooto.... I..                             _:-      _-        -i-          540       _60        400        280       120       400         80         320       400                                     6    20  180          800         700       500    1.200
Sobroral                    952      1~~~~~~~~~__68  1,12  1.598     602     2,000        600     1,0       L9              0        320       40        -                -          7,5      2.170        5.16        303       2 4:906   5,520
NEW LINER
Taopico-Vou..r.                             -        -          -          510         90       600        850       150     1,000        270         750    1,000        050       150  1,000        1,500      240        1,600       2,480    1,120    5,600
Mooi.o-T-apioo..                                                           170         30       200        820       150      1,000       536         464     1,000     1,105       195  1,300        1,2         80        1,200       2,0660      839   3,500
Goadaljor-E-oo.roanios                       425       75       500        51         8        ,000       050        150     1,000       --                    -                  -        -1,709                711        2,500       1,789       711   2,500
SaISoss-Lalona Oes                      259       41       300         62       250        300        449        24       440       -          -                    -        -        -436                  304          740         436      304       740
Oubtotal                    600      ~~~~      ~~~~~~ 120  80 1,5    844     2 10Q      2  6        471     3 040        806       1,194    2_000      1,955       345  2_300        4-6      IA4          6,P40                          0,4
SUMOART
Work to Frogr.ss                             922      720      1,650      -          -         -          -         -          -         -                     -          -        - -                  927       720       1,650         922       728   1,650
S.w W-rb-Rolo...tioo                       1,128      979    2,107       1,099        194     1,292     1,559        521     2,000      1,547         273     1,020       050       150  1,000       3,786    1, 694        5,400       6,103    2,147   8,300
-Moo Yards                        957       168     1,120     1,390        602      2,000       600     1,400      2,000         00        320        400      -        -        -         2,950    2,170         5,120      3,030    2,490    5,520
-Now Lio.a                        600       120      6800     1,256        044     2,100      32 66        471     3 140        006      1,194    g_p90       1,955    3-45  2.300         4,605   fl4_35         6,040Q      7366   2_974   10,340
Total (ooclodicg rotlngs...ioo)          3,602      1,995    5,677    5,753        1,640      5,595     4,820      7,592     7,220      2,433       1,707    4,220    7,8009        495  3,300       12,263    6,027       18,290      17,501   8,309  25,010
Co.tugisirs-pirr                          1,244      _505     5 749   2L120           663     2783    3 862    1.301         5 163    32516         1,194     3_710     3,644       39   /240      7f3    ,226  2,46                  15 206   4,059  _17245
Grad Total (with outnoro)                3,926      _,500      /42.     5,873     _3,393     23-7      8690    3,693   12.322          4,949      2,9223     79530    4 449         94p9917_4      139,48    8,496        2~96        30,&23  121368  _4.255
-    chi-o being olar-gd to Froido for double trac.k Oniosha-Cordubo sod dooblo lino OpOrtio- Los Ryn-Oriosbo at increas..d rout  pFr-.- Tool. 000   illion
S Obpojoct root copioro~d but not soon by Bas-              isk  c
P/ hysia.   co n-n1    Na   includod in SCT figoron; price ctionl n tkenO:O
0900    1961   1982   1905    1084   1905
oco.I 7      23      20      17       15      13      130
-orign          10      55      12      10       0       0                                                                                                            n
(SIt ouggosted fig-r-)
SoreSCT
Roy 1980



-53 -
MEXICO                                                                                TABLE 3.2
FOURTS RAILWAY PROJECT
SCT Infrostroct.re Works-Design and Contract Progr
Work
Length                                                   1980                     1981                     1982                     1983                    1984                     1985
K.
Works in Progress
184  Huehuetec-QOueretero
41  Lacherig-Jaltocan-Teotihuacan            >
75  Los Reyea-M mdoa_
50  Ayuno-Caltsontain
35  Soyula-Ciudad Guzman
New Works-Relocation
107  Queretaro-irapuoto                        -----        ---------
38  Oritaba-Paso del Macho                     ---------------------
60  Tierra Bl.nca-Media  Aguas                        ,__
30  Medias Ago.s-Coatz.coa lcoa                           _ _ __ __ __ _
15  Jaltocan-Huehueect.                                     --------- A
38  Saltillo-Mo-terrey                             -----------------                    _
14  Pinto-Entraeada
60  Teotihu.can-San Marcus-Log Reyes                        ---------4
25  Apisaco-Pueblh                                          ---------- I
73  Toluca-Achbero                                                           -----------------1                                      __                                  j
63  Marico-Toluoa                                                           .-----------------4 4                                                                           _
60  Roseta-Tepic                                                            _-----------------_ 4                                    _                                                    Dec.'87
NWa Yards
Huehoeteca                                    4-- ----i-      -----    4
Monterrey                                               -----------------
Guodalajar                                              F-----          -s 4____
Coatzacoalcos                                                              ---------------
Nev Line.
400 Tmspico-Veracros                            -------                                           I
200  Meaico-Tampico                                                     F---------------------1                                                _____I_
185  Guadalajara-Ec-arnacioc
123  Salicas-Laguna Sec.                                                  I_I
Source: SCT
May 1980



- 54 -
TABLE 3.3
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M Project and Benk Loss
Project Hex $ (millions)               Project US$ (Billionee Rank Loan (US$ millions)
Local      Foreign      Total        Local      Foreign      Total        1981      1982      1983       Total
A,  (ay end Works
Trackl
Reenews   - new rail                      1,117.6        892.2    2,009.8                      38.8        87.4        13.0      12.8      13.0       38.8
Renewsl - recovered rail                     206.7         -         206,7          9.0         -           9.0         -
Station yards                                 90.0         -          90.0          3.9         -           3.9
Maintenance eqcipnent                         60.0       420.0       460.0          2.6        18.2        20.8
Sob-Total                           _1474 3    1_312.2    2,786.5            64.1        57.0       121.1         13.o      12.8     13.o        38.8
Bridges - strengthening                        360.0        _          360.0         15.7         -          15.7          _        -         _
Building Works
In yards                                    360.0          -         360.0         15.7         -          15.7         -         -         -           _
In workshops                                340.0          -        340.0          14.8         -          14.8
Staff accomodation                          210.0          -        210.0           9.1         -           9.1         -         -         -
Healt- C-ote-o                                32.0         8.0        40.0          1.4         13          1.          -
Weighing platfor9.s 90                                     4.5        13.5          0,4         0.2         0.6
water and fuel equipment                       7.8         -           7.8          0.3         -           0.3
Sub-Total                              958.8        12.5       971.3         41.7         0.5        42.2          _         _        _            _
Signalling. Conscunicatione & Electrical
Radio co-munications                          90.0        60.0       150.0          3.9         2.6         6.5
Level crossing protection equiptent           24.0         -          24.0          1.0         -           1.0 
Ce-trali.ed traffic control                 229.0       450.0        679.0         10.0        19.5        29.5
Electricity and lighting                    187.5          -        187.5           8.2         -           8.2
Sub-Total                              530 5       510.0    1,040.5          23.1        22.1        45.2          _         -         _
Total Way and Works                              3,323.      1,834.7    5,158.3         144.6         79.6      224.2         13.0      12.8      13.0        38.8
b. motive - orer and Rolling Stock
Diesel Locoxotives
NoM units                                      -      4,776.7    4,776.7            _         207.7       207.7
Rehabilitation existing units                  -        300.0        300.0          _          13.0        13.0
Sub-Total                                -       5,076.7    5,076.7           _         220.7       220.7
Freight and Passenger Cars
Freight cats - box                        4,364.9       425.1    4,810.0          190.6        18.5       209.1         2.0       5.0       o.0        13.0
- gondola - ordinary        2,482.7       392.3    2,875.0          107.9        17.1       125.0         3.5       2.1       8.2        13.8
- gondola - tipping             -          68.8        68.8            -          3.0         3.0         3.0        -         -          3.0
- flat - RS?                    -         197.5       167.5            -          8.2         8.2          -        8.2        -          8.2
- grain hopper              3,081.9       558.1    3,640.0          134.0        24.3       158.3          -       13.1       9.3        22.4
- caboose                       -         462.7       462.7            -         20.1        20.1         5.8        -         -          5.8
- tank                          -         259.9       259.9            _         11.3        11.3         6.8       4.5        -         11.3
- ballast hopper                -          103.0       103.0           -          4.5         4.5         4.5        -         -          4.5
Spare vheels and axles                         -         142.6       142.6           -          6.2         6.2          -        3.0       3.2         6.2
Sub-Total                            9,949.      2,600.    12,549.5          432.5       113.2       545.7        25.6      35.9      26.7        88.2
Workahop Machinery                             24080       390.0       630.0         10.4        17.0        27.4          -         -         -          _
Total Motive Power and Rolling Stock            10,189,5    6,066.7   18,256.2           442.9       350.9       793.8        25.6      35.9      26.7        88.2
C.  Project Studies and Consultants                 46.0        46.0        92.0          2.0         2.0         4.0          0.7      0.7       0.6          2.0
D.  Engineering and Supervision                     777-.      18a..        745.6         31.7         0.7       32.4
E.  Total Cost (Excluding Contingencies)        _.4,2L  7   9   _965.4    24,252.1       621.2       433.2    1,054.4         39.3      49.4      40.3       129.0
Contingencies                                                                                                             .         .        08          23
Physical (5% except in locos & cars)    218.2         114.5        332.7          9.5         4.9       14.4          0.8       0.7       0.8          2.3
Price I/                                 8,285.5   2,244.7    10,530.2          360.2        97.7      457.9          3.5        7.1      8.1        18.7
Sub-Total                          8,503.7   2,359.2    10,862.9           369.7       102.6      472.3          4.3       7.8       8.9        21.0
F.  GRAND TOTAL                                 22,790.4  12,324.6    35,115.0           990.9       535.8   1,526.7          43.o      57.2      49.2       150.0
Cost estimates arc based on mid-1960 prices.  The following price contingencies have been taken into consideration:
1980   1981   1982   1983
Local -i                   11.5      20      17     15
Foreign 7                   5.25      9       8     17
*Yor second half of 1980
Sourc: N de M
Octob-r 1980



- 55-
MEXICO                                  TABLE 3.4
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
List of Goods to be Financed from Bank Loan
(Cost Figures in US$ Millions) 3/
Item                      1981             1982              1983             Total
Quant.   Amt.   Quant.   Amt.   Quant.   Amt.   Quant.   Amt.
1.  Rails (in tons)       32,000   13.0   30,000   12.8   32,000   13.0   94,000   38.8
2.  Components for1,       2,o46    5.5-   2,700   20.2    3,400   23.5    8,146   49.2
Cars (in sets)-
3.  Tippler Wagons            44    3.0      -         -       -         -         44    3.0
4.  Tank Cars                120    6.8         80    4.5      -         -        200   11.3
5.  Ballast Hoppers           70    4.5      -         -       -         -         70    4.5
6.  Caboose Vans              65    5.8       -        -       -         -         65    5.8
7.  Platform Cars           -         -        125    8.2      -         -        125    8.2
(piggy back)
8.  Axles and Roller        -         -     4,000    3.0    4,000    3.2    8,000    6.2
Bearings (sets)
9.  Consulting
Services                        0.7               0.7              0.6               2.0
Contingencies                   4.3               7.8              8.9              21.0
TOTAL                       43.6              57.2             49.2             150.0
The annual break up is as follows:
Box cars      Covered hoppers       Gondolas         Total
1981         846              200               1000            2046
1982        1000             14oo                300            2700
1983        1200             1000               1200            34o0
Total      3046              2600               2500            8146
2/  The full cost of components for 2,046 cars is expected to be $12.9 million of
which $7.4 million worth of components will be financed from the ongoing loan 1232-ME and
the balance $5.5 million from the proposed loan.
3/ Cost figures will be updated to November 1980 prices before negotiations.
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
October 1980



- 56 -
TABLE 3.5
Page 1 of 2
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M-Track Renovation Program
Division         Line              Section                        Km           Length
From   To          Km
With New Rail
1981
Golfo             M        Monterrey-Posadas                  524    609        85
Sureste           G        Tierra Blanca-Papaloapam            95    145        43.5
Papaloapam-Masoco                  145    206        61
Acnotal-Medias Aguas               286    301        15
Cardenas          L        Pozo-El Gato                       275    333        58
262.5
1982
Pacifico          NB       Acambaro-Emp.Escobedo                0      85       85
Mexicano          S        Paso del Macho-Veracruz            348    410        62
Cordoba-Potrero                    318    334        16
Sureste           G        Cordoba-Tierra Blanca                0      93       93
256
1983
Monclava          R        Paredon-Ramos Arizpe               367    424        57
Mexicano          S        Teotihuacan-Los Reyes               45    236       150
Sureste           Z        Coatzacoalcos-Medias Aguas           5      91       56.5
263.5
1984
Cardenas          L        Las Palmas-Tampico                 550    668       118
Monclava          R        Ciudad Frontera-Paredon            238    367       127
Torreon          A         Felipe Pescador-Urbieta            814    856        42
287
1985
Monterrey         F        Monterrey-Milpa                      0      50       50
Torreon          M         Hipolito-Gomez Palacio             674    897        50
P        Jimenez-Morita                       9      59       50
A        Pachero-Mieleras                   879   1013       134
-284



57 -                           TABLE 3.5
Page 2 of 2
Division         Line              Section                         Km          Length
From   To         Km
With
Recovered
Rail
1981
Mexicano          S        Maltrata-Paso del Macho            280    350        70
Queretaro        B         Teocolco-La Llave                  90    216       126
196
1982
Guadalajara       I        Penjamo-Villanueva                  SO    130       80
Jalapa           V         Las Vigas-Apazapam                 290    389       99
179
1983
Pacifico         N         Tultenango-Acambaro                172    284      112
Tacuba-Maclovio Herrera             5     55        50
Noriega-Patzcuaro                 400    427        22
184
1984
Pacifico         N         Toluca-Tultenango                   73    172       99
Jalapa           V         Apazapan-Salmoral                  389    431       42
Sureste          K         Pijijiapam-Flores Magon           260    320        60
201
1985
Sureste          K         Flores Magon-Ciudad Hidalgo       320    458       138
Cardenas         L         Alonso-Montana                    250    311        61
199



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M - Locomotive Requirements 1981 - 1985
1980               1981                1982               1983                1984                1985
Freight revenue net ton km based on N de M
traffic forecast                   (billion)              34.73              36.21              39.20               42.24               45.28               48.32
Factor operating gross ton km to revenue net
ton km                                                     2.0                 2.0               2.0                  2.0                2.0                 2.0
Freight gross ton km (billion)                              69.46               72.43             78.41                84.49               90.57              96.65
Average speed (km/hr)                                       23.00               23.7              24.1                 24.7                24.7               25.0
Gross ton km per HP at 100% utilization                 87,654.00          90,322.00          91,847.00           94,183.00           94,183.00           95,277.00
(increased in direct proportion to
average speed)
Freight locomotive HP required at 100%
utilization                                          792,434.00         801,909.00         853,702.00          897,083.00          961,639.00        1,014,411.00
Coefficient of utilization                                   0.50                0.50              0.50                 0.50                0.50               0.50
Freight locomotive HP required in service
(100% available)                                  1,584,868.00        1,603,818.00      1,707,404.00         1,794,166.00        1,923,278.00       2,028.822.00        X
Passenger, mixed & service trains HP
required (100% available)                            263,294.00         263,294.00         263,294.00          263,294.00          263,294.00          263,294.00
Yard shunting HP required (100% available)             322,580.00         336,363.00         364,124.00          392,354.00          420,584.00          448,819.00
Total all services HP required(l00% available)   2,170,742.00           2,303,475.00       2,334,822.00        2,449,814.00        2,607,156.00        2,740,935.00
Coefficient of availability                                  0.76                0.77              0.78                 0.79                0.80                0.81
Locomotive HP required in fleet                      2,856,339.00       2,861,656.00       2,993,361.00        3,101,030.00        3,258,945.00        3,383,870.00
Locomotive HP available at beginning of year         2,670,210.00       2,914,810.00       3,087,110.00        3,170,810.00        3,244,520.00        3,320,420.00
Scrapping program                                      -58,100.00        -109,700.00         -73,800.00          -83,790.00          -81,600.00          -70,450.00
Locomotive HP to be added from purchases-l            +302,700.00        +282,000.00        +157,500.00         +157,500.00         +157,500.00         +157,500.00
Locomotive HP available at end of year               2,914,810.00       3,087,110.00       3,170,810.00        3,244,520.00        3,320,420.00        3,407,470.00
Shortage(-)or surplus(+)at end of year                 +58,571.00        +225,454.00        +177,449.00         +143,490.00          +61,475.00          +23,600.00
Locomotive units proposed by N de M                                     42x3,000 HP2/
28x3,000 HP       30x3,000 HP          30x3,000 HiP       30x3,000 HP         30x3,000 HP
32x2,250 HP       30r-2,250 HP3/       30x2,250 HP3,      30x2,250 HP         30x2,250 HP
102           6~         ~        ~~~~~               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0_   60  -  60o  60_
1/                                     .                                                                                                3 .
2/ Excludes 50x2,000 HP additional shunting locos proposed for 1981.
- Balance from earlier order.
3/ New contract with GE.
0'
Source:  N de M and Mission Estimates
May 1980



- 59 -
NEXCO
TABLE 3.7
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT                                                                        Page I od2
N de M - Freight Car Requirements 1981-1985
1980               1981               1982               1983               -1984               1SZ5
A. Box & Covered Hopper Cars
Freight net tons to be carried (000)                  33,247.0            35,021.0           38,296.0           42,120.0          46,740.0            51,360.0
Average car load (tons)                                    49.9               50.4               50.5                50.5              50.5               50.5
Number of loaded cars (000)                               666.3              694.0              757.7               834.1             917.6            1,017.0
Average haul loaded cars (km)                             565.0              571.0              573.0               561.0             547.0              527.0
Loaded car km (bill)                                      376.5              396.2              434.8              468.3              502.0              535.7
Average total car km to loaded car km                       1.46               1.47               1.46                1.46              1.46               1.46
Total car km-net (billion)                                549.8              584.7              634.5               683.7             732.9              782.1
-gross (for operations-add 5%)(bill)        577.3               613.9              666.3              717.9              769.6              821.2
Average car km  per day (km)                               66.0               66.0               66.0                66.0              66.0               66.0
Car days per year  (000)                               8,747.5             9,301.4           10,094.9           10,887.4           11,659.9           12,442.8
Average cars on line per day (number)                 23,966.0            25,483.0           27,657.0           29,801.0          31,945.0            34,090.0
Cars existing on N de M at beginning  of year         20,044.0            21,044.0           32,944.0           21,144.0          27,344.0            29,544.0
Deduct-in workshops 5%                                 1,002.0             1,052.0            1,147.0            1,257.0            1,367.0            1,477.0
-scrapped                                         NIL                NIL                NIL                 NIL               NIL                NIL
-N de M units on other lines                     1,400.0            1,400.0             1,400.0            1,400.0           1.400.0            1,400.0
Net N de M cars on own lines                          17,642.0            18,592.0           20,397.0           22,847.0           24,577.0           26.667.0
Add-other Mexican Railway cars on N de M lines         1,500.0             1,500.0            1,500.0            1,500.0            1,500.0            1,500.0
-private cars on N de M lines                         500.0               500.0              500.0              500.0             500.0               500.0
-USA & Canada cars on N de M lines                  2,500.0            2,610.0             2,820.0            2,820.0           2,820.0             2,820.0
-total other railway cars on N de M lines           4,500.0            4,610.0             4,820.0            4,820.0           4,820.0            4,820.0
Total cars on N de M lines                            22,142.0            23,202.0           25,217.0           27,307.0          29,397.0            31,487.0
Total cars required                                   23,966.0            25,483.0           27,657.0           29,801.0          31,945.0            34,090.0
Difference-number of cars short                        1,824.0             2,281.0            2,440.0            2,494.0            2,548.0            2,603.0
Number of cars to be ordered by N de M                 1,000.0             1,900.0            2,200.0            2,200.0            2.200.0            2,300.0
Balance-to be met from rented cars                       824.0               381.0              240.0              294.0              348.0              303.0
B. Gondola Cars
(i)General cargo:
Freight net tons to be carried (000)                  15,922.0            16,715.0           17,990.0           18,885.0           20,409.0           21,851.0
Average car load (tons)                                    51.6               51.6               51.5               51.5               51.5               51.5
Number of loaded cars (000)                              308.6               323.8              349.4              366.7              396.3              424.3
Average haul loaded cars (km)                            371.0               373.0              375.0              375.0              375.0              375.0
Loaded car km (bill)                                     114.4               120.9              130.9              137.5              148.6              159.1
Average total car km to loaded car km                       1.81               1.81               1.81                1.81              1.81               1.81
Total car km-net (billion)                               207.5               219.2              237.6              248.8              269.0              388.7
-gross (for operations, add 57.)
(billion)                    217.9               230.2              249.5              261.2              282.5              303.2
Average car km per day (km)                               60.0                60.0               60.0               60.0               60.0               60.0
Car days per year (000)                                3,631.3             3,836.7            4,158.3            4,353.4            4,707.8            5,052.7
Average cars on line per day (number)                  9,948.0            10,511.0           11,392.0           11,927.0           12,898.0           13,843.0
(ii)Iron ore:
Freight net tons to be carried (000)                   9,492.0            10,098.0           11,241.0           11,700.0           12,200.0           12,700.0
Average car load (tons)                                    77.0               77.0               77.0               77.0               77.0               77.0
Number of loaded cars (000)                               123.3              131.1              146.0              151.9              158.4              164.9
Average haul loaded cars (km)                            828.0               806.0              765.0              800.0              800.0              800.0
Loaded car km (billion)                                   102.1              105.7              111.7              121.5              126.7              131.9
Average total car km to loaded car km                       2.0                2.0                2.0                 2.0               2.0                2.0
Total car km-net (billion)                               204.1               211.4              223.4              243.0              253.4              263.8
-gross (for operations add 5%) (billion)  214.3                 222.0              234.6              255.1              266.1              277.0
Average car km per day (km)                              157.3               157.7              140.9              145.9              145.0              143.7
Car days per year (000)                                1,362.2             1,407.4            1,664.8            1,748.0            1,835.2            1,927.2
Average cars on line per day (number)                  3,732.0             3,856.0            4,561.0            4,789.0           5,028.0             5,280.0
Cars existing on N de M at beginning of year          10,540.0            12,040.0           13,040.0           13,340.0          14,540.0            15,740.0
Deduct in workshops 5/.                                   527.0              602.0              652.0              667.0              727.0              787.0
Net N de E cars on own lines                          10,013.0            11,438.0           12,388.0           12,673.0           13,813.0           14,953.0
Add-private cars in service on N de M lines            1,773.0             1,773.0            1,773.0            1,773.0            1,773.0            1,773.0
-foreign cars in service on N de M lines            1,000.0            1 000.0             1,000.0            1     0           1,000.0             1,000.0
Total cars in service on N de M lines                 12,786.0            14,211.0           15,161.0           15,446.0           16,586.0           17,726.0
Cars required-general cargo                            9,946.0            10,511.0           11,392.0           11,927.0           12,898.0           13,843.0
-iron ore                                3,732.0             3,856.0            4,561.0            4,789.0           5,028.0             5,280.0
-total                                  13,680.0            14,367.0           15,953.0           16,716.0          17,926.0            19,123.0
Difference-number of cars short                          894.0               156.0              792.0            1,270.0            1,340.0            1,397.0
Number of cars to be ordered by N de M                 1,500.0             1,000.0              300.0            1,200.0           1.200.0             1,300.0
-urplus (+) or shortage (-) at end of year              +606.0              +844.0             -492.0              -70.0             -140.0              -97.0
Source: N de M
May 1980



- 60 -
MEXICO                                                     TABLE 3.7
Page 2 of 2
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Summary Freight Car Position 1981-1983
1980               1981               1982                1983
1. Freight net ton km-from traffic projections
(billion)                              34.73              36.21               39.20              42.24
2. Deduct bulk oil traffic (cars provided by PEMEX)
(billion)                    2.34                2.40               2.45               2.14
3.  Balance general freight (billion)                             32.39              33.81               36.75              40.10
4. Increase for longer operating than charging
distance, by 8% (billion)                   35.20              36.51              39.69              43.31
5.  Average freight net ton km per day (t 365 days)(mill)         96.43             100.03              108.74             118.66
6.  Average car load (tons)                                       53.0                53.5               54.0               54.5
7.  Percentage loaded to total car km (%)                         69.0               70.0                71.0               72.0
8.  Average car km per serviceable car day (km)                   63.0                63.0               63.0               63.0
9.  Average ton km per serviceable car day (6x7x8)             2,304.0            2,359.0            2,415.0             2,472.0
10.  Total serviceable cars required per day (5-9)             41,853.0           42,404.0           45,027.0            48,002.0
11. Average number N de M cars in fleet for
general traffic                                 32,122.0           34,647.0           37,547.0            40,172.0
12. Number of N de M cars added in year for
general traffic                                  2,525.0            2,900.0            2,625.0             3,400.0
13.  Total N de M cars in fleet for general traffic            34,647.0           37,547.0           40,172.0            43,572.0
14.  Deduct-out of service 5%                                   1,732.0            1,877.0             2,009.9            2,179.0
15.         -N de M cars on other railways                      1,400.0            1,400.0             1,400.0            1,400.0
16.        -total                                               3,132.0            3,277.0            3,409.0             3,579.0
17.  Average number N de M cars available for
general traffic                            31,515.0            34,270.0           36,763.0           39,993.0
18.  Add-other Mexican Railway cars on N de M                   1,500.0            1,500.0            1,500.0             1,500.0
19.     -other private owner cars on N de M                     2,273.0            2,273.0            2,273.0             2,273.0
20.     -total                                                  3,773.0            3,773.0            3,773.0             3,773.0
21.  Total number of cars on N de M for general traffic    35,288.0               38,043.0           40,536.0            43,766.0
22.  Balance of cars to be met from foreign railways            6,565.0            4,361.0            4,491.0            4,236.0
23.  Minimum. number of cars required for import traffic        6,000.0            6,000.0            6,000.0             6,000.0
1/ Will vary, depending upon import position yearly, particularly for grains and ore.
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
May 1980



- 61 -
TABLE 3.8
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Quarterly                           Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                           Disbursement                         Disbursement
1981
III June 1981                                   14.0                                i4.0
1982
I September 1981                                14.0                                28.0
II December 1981                                14.0                                42.0
III March 1982                                  12.0                                54.0
IV June 1982                                    12.0                                66.o
1983
I September 1982                                15.0                                81.0
II December 1982                                15.0                                96.o
III March 1983                                  13.0                               109.0
IV June 1983                                    12.0                               121.0
1984
I September 1983                                13.0                               134.0
II December 1983                                13.0                               147.0
III March 1984                                   3.0                               150.0
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
October 1980



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Rates of Return
(%)
Sensitivity   Tests
Economic       25% Reduction       10% Increase        Sensitivity
Rate of        in Traffic          in Economic        (1) and (2)
Project                                          Return         Growth Rate           Costs             Combined
(1)                 (2)
Motive Power and Rolling Stock                     18              15                  16                 14
Track Renewal - New Rail                           17              14                  15                 13
Silos-Cerritos                                   15              13                  14                 11
Monterrey-Paredon                                15              12                  13                 11
Ramos Arizpe-Paredon                             17              13                  15                 11
Teotihuacan-Los Reyes                            18              15                  17                 13
Cordoba-Tejeria                                  18              17                  17                 15
Cordoba-Tierra Blanca                            18              15                  16                 13
Tierra Blanca-Papaloapan                         16              13                  15                 12
Papaloapan-Medias Aguas                          17              16                  16                 14
Coatzacoalcos-Medias Aguas                       15              12                  13                 11
Acambaro-Escobedo                                16              14                  15                 12
Track Renewal - Recovered Rail                     21              21                  17                 17
Bridge Rehabilitation                              26              25                  23                 23
CTC                                                39              31                  35                 29
San Luis Potosi-B. Mendez                        40              30                  38                 29
Irapuato-Guadalajara                             33              32                  31                30
OVERALL ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN                    22              17                  19                 16
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
June 1980



- 63 -
TABLE 5.1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M - Income Statements - 1975-1979
1975            1976             1977            1978            1979
OPERAIING REVENUES
Freight-car load and LCL traffic                   3,714            3,825           5,300            6,395           7,575
Passenger                                            176              183              247             316             360
Express                                              154              148             195              280             418
Mail                                                   62              62               62              93              16S
Local haulage                                          30              30               31              78               99
Demurrage                                            188              201              184             194              300
Equipment rents                                       93              138              365             420             399
Misc. (warehousing,bridge taxes, etc.)                60               88             244              334              306
Tax refund by Government                             524              540              769             943           1,125
Sub-total                                          5,001            5,215           7,397            9,053          10,750
Government compensation on
unprofitable services                             -               450              583              759             732
Total Operating Revenues                           5,001            5,665           7,980            9,812          11,482
OPERATING EXPENDITURES
Staff Costs
Wages, salaries, overtime, etc.                  3,364           4,040            5,035            6,133           7,203
Pensions                                           633              708             805              914           1,056
Sick-pay                                            77              107             110              113             142
Medical and hospital                               140              146             201              195             221
Sub-total                                        4,214           5,001            6,151            7,355           8,622
Materials and Other Costs
Fuel, water and lubricants             ~           254              273             402              455             663
Material and other charges                       1,297            1,497           2,488            2,322           3,326
Equipment rents                                    232              150             287              526           1,107
Working Costs                                      5,997            6,921           9,328           10,658          13,718
Depreciation                                         301              374             512              516             676
Operating Costs                                    6,298            7,295           9,840          11,174           14,394
Loss on Mexican peso devaluation                     -              1,183             414              -               -
Net Working Revenues/(Loss)                         (996)          (2,439)         (1,762)           (846)          (2,236)
Net Operating Revenues/(Loss)                      1,297           (2,813)         (2,274)          (1,362)         (2,912)
Interest Charges                                     596           1,091            1,595            1,720           1,914
Net Deficits                                       1,893            3,904           3,869            3,082           4,826
Working Ratio:
With Government compensation                         120              145             122              109             119
Without Government compensation                      120              155             132              118             128
Operating Ratio:
With Government compensation                         126              150             128              114             125
Without Government compensation                      126              163             139              123             134
Source:  N de M
June 198(



- 64 -                            TABLE 5.2
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M - Summary Cash Flow Statements - 1976-1979
(Mex$ million)
1976            1977            1978            1979
APPLICATIONS
Net Cash Deficit on Operations       1,256           1,762              846           2,236
Increase/(Decrease) in
Working Capital                     (32)            731             788          (1,052)
Debt Payments                        2,121           3,416           5,091           5,519
Capital Investment                   5,729           3,711           1,387           4,639
Total Applications                9,074           9,620           8,112          11,342
SOURCES
Borrowings:
Foreign - IBRD                      752             249             360             407
- Other                  6,202             860              389           5,553
Local                               550           2,397           1,874             223
Government Contributions             1,570           6,114           5,489           5,159
Total Sources                     9,074           9,620           8,112          11,342
Source:  N de M
June 1980



- 65 -
MEXICO                        TABLE 5.3
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M - Summary Balance Sheets - 1976-1979
(Mex$ million)
1976           1977            1978            19791'
ASSETS
Current Assets                      2,439           3,405           4,409          4,929
Less Current Liabilities            1i053           12298           13,086
Net Working Capital (Deficiency)   1,386            2,107           2,895          1,843
Net Fixed Assets                   24,794          28,013          28,736         99,670
Other Assets                          302             927             407            908
Total                           26,482          31,047         32,038         102,421
LIABILITIES
Short, Medium and
LTong Term Loans                14,463          17,411         16,707          19,520
Government Equity (Net)            12,019          13,636         15,331          82,901
Total                           26,482          31,047         32,038         102,421
Debt/Equity Ratio                     55/45           56/44           52/48          19/81
1/ Results of the revaluation of fixed assets are included.
Source: N de M
June 1980



- 66 -
MEXICO                                          TABLE 5.4
FOURTH RAILWAY 2RCJ CT
N de M-Income Statements - 1980-1985
(Figures in Mex$ Millions)
1980        1q81        1982        1983        1984        1985
OPERArING REVENUES
1I  FREIGHT-CAR LOAD AND LCL TRAFFIC                         10524 00   13612 0(    17888.00   23240.00   296.37.00   31199o00
2. PASSENGER                                                   421.00      526.00      642 00       770.00      909.00     1073 00
3. EXPRESS                                                     518.00      648.00      790.00      949. 00    11 19 00      320o00
4. MAIL                                                        245.00      301.00      363.00       436.00      513.00      59()00
5. LOCAL HAULAGE                                                134.00      147 00      162.070     178.On      196o00      216.00
6. DEMURRAGE                                                   353.00      377-00      409.00       448 00      491.00 oIG,OT
7. EOUIPMENT RENTS                                             450 00      450 0.      450.00       450.00      45,,011     450.0o
8. OTHER (WAREHOUSING,BRIDGE TAXES.ETC.)                       290.00      370.00      320.00       320.00      340.00      340.0(0
9  TAX REFUND BY GOVERNMENT
SUBTOTAL                                                  12975.0o    1 r377 (0   210n4.00   26791.00    36ss 00   41724 0M
10. GOVERNMENT COMPENSAIION ON
UNPROFITABL-E SERVICES                               1019.00    1259. 0      1527.00    1873.00    2234.00    2533(o0
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUE                                      13951.00   17676.00   22551.00   28664.00   35892.00   41757.00
OPERATING EXPFNDITURES
STAFF COSTS
11. WAGES,SALARIES,OVERTIME,EIC.                             10154.00   12606.00   15567.00   18426.00   21940 00   25592.00
12. PFNSION                                                   1308.00    1650 00    2028 00    2392.00    2818.00    :3276.00
13. SICK PAY                                                   181 00      220.00      266.00      317.00      373.00       4136. 00
14. MEDICAL AND HOSPITAL                                       312.00      379.00      460.00      548.00      644.00       752.00
SUBTOTAL                                                     11965.00   14855.00   18321.00   21683.00   25775.00   301J5.0 (
MATERIALS AND OTHER COSTS
1s5  FUEL,WArER AND LUBRICANTS                                 993.00    1210 00    148i.00    1778.00    2010.00    2479.00
16. MATERIAL AND OTHER CHARGES                                3621.00    4395.00    5316.00    6308.00    7403.00    86190o0
17. EOUIPMENT RENTS                                            800.00      700.00      600.00      500.00      500 00       500. 00
I.ESS COST SAVINGS                                                                 291.00    1081.00    2020 00    2391.00
18. WORKING COSTS                                            17379.00   21160.00   25427.00   29188.00   33068s00   39263.00
19. DEPRECIATION I/                                           2491.00    2386.00    2160.00    4617.00    4768.00    6260.00
20. OPERATING COSTS                                          19870.00   23546.00   27587.00   33805.00   38436.00   44523.00
21. NET WORKING REVENUES(LOSS)                               -3428.00   -3524,00   -2876.00    -524.00    2224.00    4994.0q
22. NET OPERATING REVENUESiLOSS)                             -5919.00   -5910.00   -5036.00   -5141.00   -2544.00    -266.00
23. INTEREST CHARGES                                          2519.00    3578.00    4900.00    6040.00    6807.00    805q900
24. NET DEFICITS                                             -8438.00   -9488.00   -9936.00  -11181.00    9391.00    8325.00
WORKING RATIO
25. WITH GOVERNMENT COMPENSATION                                  1.25        1.20        1.13        1.02        0.94        0.89
26. WITHOUT GOVERNMENT COMPENSATION                               1.34        1.29        1.21        1.09        1.00        0.94
OPERATING RATIO
27. WITH GOVERNMENT COMPENSATION                                  1.42        1.34        1.22        1.18        1.()7       1.01
28. WITHOUT GOVERNMENT COMPENSAFION                               1.54        1.44        1,31        1.26        1.14         10(7
1/ DEPRECIATION IS BASED ON
REVALUATION OF NET FIXED ASSETS
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
June 1980



- 67 -                                    TABLE 5.5
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M Cash Flow Statements - 1980-1985
(Figures in Mex$ Millions)
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
APPLICATIONS
OPERATING DEFICIT                                 5919.0      5910.0      5036.0      5141.0      2544.0       266.0
LESS DEPRECIATION PROVISION                       2491.0      2386.0      2160.0      4617.0     4768.0      5260.0
NET CASH DEFICITS/(SURPLUS)
ON OPERATIONS                         3428.0      3524.0      2876.0       524.0    -2224.0    -4994.0
DEBT SERVICE CHARGES
LOCAL INTEREST                                  698.0      1314.0      2051.0     2810.0      3563.0      4226.0
LOCAL AMORTIZATION                              364.0      1398.0      2851.0     4610.0      6706.0      8198.0
FOREIGN INTEREST                               1560.0      1718.0      2211.0     2704.0      2890.0      3027.0
FOREIGN AMORTIZATION                           3256.0      3137.0      3768.0     3837.0      4553.0      4779.0
CAPITAL INVESTMENT
LOCAL                                          5173.0      6078.0      7192.0     9519.0    10877.0    12838.0
FOREIGN                                        3032.0      4730.0      3802.0     3793.0      4009.0      4292.0
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                               17511.0    21899.0    24751.0    27797.0    30374.0    32366.0
SOURCES
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION                           8035.0      87iO.0    11087.0    11505.0    12202.0    11622.0
DECREASE IN WORKING CAPITAL                         167.0
BORROWINGS
LOCAL LOANS
NAFINSA                                     2777.0      4012.0     4885.0      6796.0      7671.0      9189.0
BANOBRAS                                    1896.0      2788.0     3098.0      3571.0      4071.0      4506.0
FOREIGN LOANS
NAFINSA                                     1964.0      3442.0     2365.0      2021.0      2140.0      2288.0
BANOBRAS                                    1595.0      1774.0     2003.0      2264.0      2562.0      2908.0
IBRD LOAN 1232-ME(US$100 MILLION)            871.0       170-0
PROPOSED IBRD LOAN(US$i5O MILLION)                      1003.0      1313.0     1134.0
OTHER                                        206.0                              506.0      1728.0      1853.0
TOTAL SOURCES                                    17511.0    21899.0    24751.0    27797.0    30374.0    32366.0
Source: N de M and Mission Estimates
November 1980



- 68 -                                    TABLE 5.6
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M - Baaance Sheets - 1980-1985
(Figures in Mex$ Millions)
1980       1981        1982        1983        1984        1985
ASSETS
FIXED ASSETS
BOOK VALUE                               46310.00   57118.00   68112.00   81424.00   96310.00  113440.00
REVALUATION                             116830.00  116830.00  116830.00  116830.00  116830.00  116830.00
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION             6438.00    7256.00    8316.00    9820.00   11600.00   13726.00
LESS ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
AFTER REVALUATION             51783.00   53491.00   54902.00   58781.00   62457.00   66121.00
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS                     104919.00  113201.00  121724.00  129653.00  139083.00  150423.00
DEFERRED ASSETS                               207.00      207.00      207.00      207.00      207.00     207.00
INVESTMENTS AND DEPOSITS                      546.00      546.00      546.00     546.00      546.00      546.00
CURRENT ASSETS
CASH ON HAND & IN BANKS                    239.00      239.00     239.00      239.00      239.00      239.00
CASH IN TRANSIT                            371.00      371.00     371.00      371.00      371.00      371.00
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE (NET)                 1006.00    1006.00    1006.00    1006.00    1006.00    1006.00
INVENTORY (NET)                           3138.00    3138.00    3138.00    3138.00    3138.00    3138.00
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS                         4754.00    4754.00    4754.00    4754.00    4754.00    4754.00
TOTAL ASSETS                               110426.00  118708.00  127231.00  135160.00  144590.00  155930.00
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES                          3078.00    3078.00    3078.00    3078.00    3078.00    3078.00
DEBT
SHORT AND MEDIUM TERM                      901.00     745.00      570.00      564.00      561.00      561.00
LONG TERM                                24102.00   32912.00   40132.00   47983.00   54900.00   62667.00
TOTAL DEBT                               25003.00   33657.00   40702.00   48547.00   55461.00   63228.00
GOVERNMENT EQUITY
CAPITAL SUBSCRIPTION & SUBVENTION        19064.00   19871.00   21596.00   24983.00   27969.00   32251.00
ADUUSTMENT FOR REVALUATION
OF FIXED ASSETS                 67284.00   67284.00   67284.00   67284.00   67284.00   67284.00
LESS ACCUMULATED DEFICIT(NET)              4003.00    5182.00    5429.00    8732.00    9202.00    9911.00
TOTAL EQUITY                                82345.00   81973.00   83451.00   83535.00   86051.00   89624.00
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY               110426.00  118708.00  127231.00  135160.00  144590.00  155930.00
CURRENT ASSETS/CURRENT LIABILITIES              1.54        1.54        1.54        1.54        1.54       1.54
DEBT/EQUITY RATIO                               0.23        0.29        0.33       0.37        0.39        0.41
Source:  N de M and Mission Estimates
November 1980



- 69 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M Track and Equipment Development
Track and Structures
1.        Principal traffic lines are laid mostly with 100-115 lb/yd rail,
while secondary and branch lines have 70-80 lb/yd rail, with a few branch
lines having light rail of 50-60 lb/yd. Sleepers are mainly timber, but con-
crete sleepers have been used on main line relaying for some years. Ballast
is of reasonable quality on relaid track but is inadequate elsewhere. Rails
suffer damage due to poor ballast support and also from wear on hill sections
where steep gradients and sharp curvature prevail. N de M has had a program
for complete track material renewal on principal traffic lines using 115 lb/yd
rail, partial replacements using recovered rail on secondary lines and making
good, as necessary, timber sleepers and stone ballast on other lines. The
last five-year program, 1975-1979, envisaged the renewal of about 300 track-km
per year and the renovation of about another 200 track-km per year using
recovered rail; however, because of the slowdown in Government investment
during 1977-1979, the rates decreased to approximately 140 km and 150 km per
year respectively. N de M intends to return to about the previous rates for
the new plan period 1981-1985. Further details on the 1981-1985 programs
using new and recovered rails are shown in Table 3.5 of the report. The
changing position of rail in 1974, in 1979 and at the end of the plan period
1985 can be set out approximately as follows:
1974      1979        1985
(km)      (km)        (km)
Principal Lines - 115 lb/yd              1,200     2,470       3,700
- 110-112 lb/yd         4,200     3,710       3,200
- 100 lb/yd             3,900     3,900       3,900
Secondary and Branch Lines
- less than 90 lb/yd    4,700      4,130       3,410
14,000    14,210      14,210
2.        New rail is obtained according to American specifications and is all
imported; concrete sleepers are manufactured locally, and fastenings are also
mostly obtained from local sources.
3.        Track maintenance has been wholly manual but is gradually being
changed, as tracks are renewed or renovated, by the provision of machinery
(mainly ballast tampers, liners, regulators and compactors) and by the con-
solidation of gangs, with transport, into longer sections. This program is to
be extended in the plan period 1981-1985.



- 70 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Many bridges on the system are not strong enough to carry, without
restrictions, the loads imposed by the newer heavier axle load locomotives
and freight cars.  Again, a program of strengthening or replacing has been
in force for some years; a large number of bridges still remain to be dealt
with, and N de M proposes to continue the work at the rate of about 170 bridges
per year.
5.        N de M also has continuing programs for improving drainage; lengthen-
ing crossing loops at stations; providing additional crossing stations (to
cater to longer and additional trains); extending terminals and yards;
providing extensions to existing workshops, station buildings, goods depots
and offices; and constructing staff housing (mainly for the regrouping of
track maintenance staff).
Signaling and Communications
6.        The major installation of UHF and VHF radio communications throughout
the system (provided under the two previous projects) will be completed at the
beginning of 1981, but minor extensions will be continued in following years.
Modern car control and information systems, using the new communications, have
been installed at headquarters at the major marshaling yards of Valle de
Mexico, Monterrey and Guadalajara, and at other terminals; further installa-
tions are to be made in the new plan period. N de M also intends to extend
the provision of centralized traffic control (CTC) and to increase traffic
capacity on principal single track routes. Three installations are proposed
in the 1981-1983 period for the Irapuato-Guadalajara, San Luis Potosi-Benjamin
Mendez (to complete Queretaro-Monterrey) and Teotihuacan-Veracruz lines.
Locomotives and Rolling Stock
7.        N de M had a fleet of 1,160 locomotives at the end of 1979.  On order
are 67 new units for delivery in 1980 and 42 units in 1981. A recent contract
made with General Electric (USA) provides for the supply of a further 60 main
line locomotives per year for 10 years, starting in 1981; a minimum of 28 per
year of these units are to be erected in Mexico at N de M workshops. The
assessed requirements for 1981-1985, allowing for projected traffic and some
scrapping of older units, are set out in Table 3.6 of the report. These
requirements depend considerably on the percentage availability for traffic
operations and on the scope of the scrapping program. Because of the intensive
level of operations in 1978-1979 and the reduction of normal maintenance,
locomotive availability declined in these years to 75%, compared with around
85% in previous years. The percentage is now showing signs of slowly increas-
ing again to 76% in 1980 and, with improvements to maintenance procedures
(aided by technical assistance provided by consultants, TOPS-ON-LINE, USA and
paid from Loan 1232-ME), further advance by at least 1% per year, to give 81%
in 1985, should be possible. The scrapping program also could be enlarged to
remove a greater number of locomotives which are, or will become in the plan
period, over 20 years old, and which exist in a large number of varied types.
These locomotives cause inflated maintenance costs, congestion in the workshops,
and difficulties over the supply of outdated spare parts. N de M additionally



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3
proposes, under the program, to purchase 50 large shunting locomotives to
replace old, smaller units and to increase the handling capacity for the
larger, heavier freight trains now using the main terminals. N de M is also
preparing a comprehensive review of its locomotive needs, taking account of
the acquisitions proposed, availabilities and utilizations envisaged and the
development of an adequate scrapping program, which will be reviewed by the
Bank.
8.        The N de M fleet of freight cars totaled 33,400 at the end of 1979;
it comprised about 19,500 box cars, 9,400 gondolas, 1,100 hopper cars, and
2,500 flat tank and other miscellaneous cars, plus 860 caboose vans. In
addition, N de M makes considerable use of foreign cars coming into Mexico
with imports from the USA. The number can vary considerably, from a high
annual average of 21,000 in 1974 to a low of 7,000 in 1976; in 1979, the
average was back to 18,000, but has been brought down again in 1980 to about
11,000. One of the main difficulties is congestion in the border traffic
yards both in Mexico and the USA. The availability of N de M cars is good,
although the turnaround time worsened in 1978-1979 because of operating condi-
tions, declining locomotive availability, and general traffic congestion. The
requirements for additional N de M cars are assessed in Table 3.7 of the
report on the basis of a continuing reasonable level of availability, an
improvement in utilization, the forecast traffic demand and a reduction again
in the foreign cars retained in Mexico. The assessment, however, should be
reviewed annually so that the numbers of new cars can be adjusted in the light
of the operating performances being achieved and changes in the levels and the
types of traffic forecast for the next year or two ahead.
9.        As regards passenger and baggage cars, N de M had a fleet of about
1,300 cars at the end of 1979; some 200 are recent replacements under the
last investment plan, but about 50% of the fleet remains over 30 years old.
N de M has not yet made any provision for further replacements in the new
plan period, partly because of priority given to freight traffic and partly
because the passenger train and car policy is under review, in the context
of closure of further services and the possibility of operating fast through
trains between main cities, as improved tracks become available because of the
SCT and N de M infrastructure improvement and track renewal programs. The
Bank will review and comment upon the passenger policy proposals when they are
completed.
July 1980



- 72 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
N de M Operations Review
1.        Statistics are available for 1970-1974, prior to the appraisal of
Loan 1232-ME, and for the subsequent years 1975-1979. The data are set out
in Table 2.6 of the report. The main points that may be noted are:
(a) Passenger numbers declined up to 1974 but have remained almost level
since then; passenger-km also declined through 1970-1974 but have
increased about 25% to 1979, with an increase in the average journey.
(b) Freight tons remained level during 1974-1976 but increased about 10%
during 1978-1979; net ton km, however, have increased about 29%
since 1974 (and about 82% since 1970), the average haul increasing
about 18% (490-580 km) during 1975-1979.
(c) Passenger train-km have declined 25% since 1970 and about 14% since
1974; freight train-km increased 38% and 21% in 1970-1974 and
1975-1979, respectively.
(d) On freight operations, the average carload has increased 16% since
1974 (34% since 1970) and the average net train load by 6% since
1974 (33% since 1970), but the annual number of cars loaded has
remained almost static since 1970 (at around 1,000 per year); the
average car-km per day increased 32% during 1975-1977 but declined
again in 1978-1979; the average car turnaround time also improved
and then declined; the average net ton-km per serviceable car day
has, however, increased about 50% since 1974 (having remained static
during 1970-1974).
(e) On locomotive operations, utilization has generally improved and, for
freight locomotives, averaged-slightly over 100,000 km per year
in 1977-1978; on the other hand, the average freight train speed,
having increased about 30% during 1974-1976, declined about the same
amount during 1977-1979; locomotive availability also declined and,
having been about 91% in 1976, was about 79-75% in 1977-1979.
(f) The stock of N de M cars increased about 30% during 1970-1974 and
about 12% during 1975-1979; the average number of foreign cars on
the system declined rapidly from a peak of 21,000 in 1979 to 7,000
in 1976 (and was down to even lower figures for a period), but again
increased to over 18,000 in 1979.



- 73 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(g) The operational targets set in the Plan of Action for N de M under
Loan 1232-ME were mostly achieved in 1976-1977 but, since then, to the
end of 1979, the performances declined because of (i) the slowdown
in investment in 1977-1978; (ii) the upsurge in freight traffic in
late 1978 and in 1979 due to renewed economic activity; and (iii) the
forced utilization of locomotives without program maintenance,
resulting in (iv) the deterioration of locomotive availability in
1977-1979.
2.       These targets, for 1979 and the years achieved, were:
Achieved
Locomotive-km for freight locomotive
in service                 -100,000               19//
Locomotives out of service percentage
-14%                  1976
Ton-km per freight car per day
-20%                  1978
Average turnaround time of freight
cars                       -13.7 days            1976
Freight cars out of order percentage
-4.5%                 1977
Number of foreign cars on line
-7,100                1976
3.       The position has improved in 1980 with the receipt of additional
locomotives and with measures being taken by the Operations Department to
reduce congestion and improve the movement of freight trains and cars. The
number of foreign cars on N de M lines has dropped to about 11,000 while the
fluidity factor, i.e., cars moved daily to cars standing awaiting movement,
has improved from a low of 1.25 in the latter part of last year to about 2.0
in April 1980; the daily tonnage loaded has increased from 2.5 to 3.0 million
tons, while the daily tonnage awaiting loading has'been reduced from 1.5 to 0.5
million tons. The amount of freight traffic carried on unit and direct
(rapido) trains is now some 70% of the total. These improving tendencies
are expected, by the Operating Department, to continue and should be helped
considerably by the completion, at the end of 1980, of the new systemwide
radio communications network and the following fuller utilization of the
car control and information systems being installed at all major yards and
terminals.
July 1980



- 74 -
ANNEX 3
Page I
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Technical Assistance Program - Guidelines
Development of a Comprehensive Management Information System for N de M
1.        The most significant contribution of the Third Railway Project
(financed by Bank Loan 1232-ME) has been the installation of the VHF/UHF
telecommunications network, which is 80% complete and which will be fully
completed by the end of the year 1981. The time is now ripe for N de M to
install an up-to-date Management Information System to provide the management
with reliable data and statistics to assist in the decision-making process.
This system will cover the accounting and finance procedures as well as
provide the operational and technical data required by the management. The
need for an improved Management Information System is highlighted by the
impending merger of the other railways into N de M. N de M proposes to study
the system in vogue on US and Canadian railways, where the method of working
is similar to that of N de M, and to develop a scheme for the proposed System
for Mexican Railways.
Development and Adoption of Computer Models for Rail Line and
Yard Capacity Planning
2.        With the traffic increases forecast for N de M and the infrastructure
works of SCT for realignment, regrading and additional line and yard capacity,
there is increasing need for N de M to have access to modern planning methods
for the identification and analysis of bottlenecks and capacity constraints
which will aid in the assessment of requirements of additional capacity. The
mission had a series of discussions with N de M on the subject, in the course
of which the possibility of using the recent experience of American and
Canadian railroads in this field was mentioned. N de M proposes to study the
types of computer models used by other North American railways to assist in
planning, including railway line and yard capacity simulation models. This
study will emphasize the identification of the types of computer tools avail-
able and the analysis of their potential for practical application in the
Mexican railways. Based on the findings, N de M, with the Bank's assistance,
will prepare a program of technical assistance designed to introduce and
implement appropriate planning models.
Improvement of Train and Yard Operations and Locomotive and
Freight Car Utilization
3.        A rigorous examination of the operations of N de M is required to
ensure that, with the additional equipment and line/yard capacity works, the
best use is made of the facilities and equipment. This task would include an
examination of alternative systems of operation, such as the Absolute Block
System and the Tokenless Block System, which would increase safety and reduce
the probability of accidents. The analysis would also include a review of



- 75 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
the turnaround time of wagons, the operation of unit trains, the utilization
of locomotives and the improvement of train operations in general. N de M was
of the view that such an exercise could best be undertaken by a foreign
consultant under the control of its Operating Department.
4.        During negotiations, a broad area of agreement was reached on this
subject, and terms of reference have been developed for the above-mentioned
three studies.
October 1980



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Page I
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Details of Financing Plan
1.        N de M's Cash Flow and Financing Plan are shown in Table 5.5 of
the report. The amounts shown include physical and price contingencies.
The following financing arrangements were agreed with Mexican officials
during negotiations for the project 1981-1983.
Mex$ million
Government Equity Contribution                                             933
NAFINSA:
(a)  Local (basically for wagons)                     15,694
(i) Interest rates - 1980   15%
1981   15%
1982   15%
1983   15%
1984   15%
1984   15%
1985   15%
(ii) Amortization period - five years with
one-year grace period
(b)  Foreign                                           7,828      23,522
(i) Exim Bank (for locomotives)
42.5% of Mex$ 5,078 million
- interest rate 9% plus
commitment charges at
1/2% on undisbursed loan
- amortization period -10 years
with four- to five-year grace
period
(ii) Foreign Commercial Banks
57.5% of Mex$ 5,078 million
- interest rate at 10%
plus commitment charges at
0.5% on undisbursed loans
- amortization period five years
with one-year grace period



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
2.   BANOBRAS
(Banco Nacional de Obras y Servicios Publicos)
(a) Local                                        6,164
(b) External                                       370            6,534
- Interest rates as
shown in item la(i)
- Amortization period five years
with one-year grace period
3.  WORLD BANK
Foreign (proposed)                                                3,450
- Interest rate 9.25% plus
3/4% commitment charges
on undisbursed loan
- Amortization period 15 years
with three-year grace period
Foreign (1232-ME)                                                   170
4.   OTHER
To be arranged. N de M used terms and
conditions similar to those of BANOBRAS                                  506
TOTAL INVESTMENT (1981-1983)                                               35,115
October 1980



- 78 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Freight Traffic Forecasts: Rationale
A. Macro-Economic Setting
1.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6% in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5% per year from the mid-sixties
to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in 1954, was maintained until
1976. During the mid-seventies, however, Mexico experienced increasing public
sector deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight,
and a marked slowdown in the real rate of GDP growth, which dropped to less
than 2% in 1976. Important changes, since 1976, have led to a turnaround in
the economy. The present Government adopted a stabilization strategy, which
included sharp reductions in the public sector deficit, in 1977. These efforts
were followed by major oil discoveries in the same year. The objectives of
the Government's program included control of inflation, to be followed by a
return to high rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector
expenditures, tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public
sector enterprises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to
justifiable levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector
were important parts of the Government's economic strategy. This approach
succeeded in bringing inflation down from 30% in 1977 to 18 and 20% in 1978
and 1979 respectively. Favorable oil prospects and increasing capital inflows
brought about a rapid increase in imports, reflecting both the resolve to
reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital and intermediate goods
upon which the extansion of the economy depends. This led to the resumption
of high growth rates, which increased from less than 1% in 1977 to 7% in 1978
and 8% in 1979.
2.        The growth outlook for the eighties is good, with real growth rates
of GDP around 8% expected to continue in the coming years. Inflation will
remain a problem, essentially as a result of investments which are increasing
at a rate of more than 15% per year in real terms. These investments call for
continued increases in imports of capital and intermediate goods. The import
program will put a severe strain on existing infrastructure capacity, especially
rail transport, in which bottlenecks already exist. Rail transport constraints
have been well documented in several major sectors. In 1978 and 1979, the
railway was unable to carry traffic offered by its most important users:
CONASUPO (major grains); the steel industry (iron ore and pellets); FERTIMES
(raw materials and finished products); and PEMEX (industrial imports).
3.        The improvement of the transport system is seen as an important
requirement toward the success of the Government's economic strategy.
Besides the need to ensure that transport infrastructure does not act as a



- 79 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2
constraint to growth, transport has an important role in supporting the
Government's policy of encouraging spatial decentralization of economic
activity, in particular the introduction of strong incentives to promote
growth in a few well selected growth poles. To this end, SCT is currently
studying, inter alia, the rail transport needs of planned development along
the Gulf area, particularly the Tampico-Veracruz-Coatzacoalcos corridor.
4.        The traffic forecasts described in this Annex reflect this macro-
economic environment.
B. Freight Traffic Forecasts - General Methodology
5.        Traffic forecasts were prepared by N de M and revised by the Bank
appraisal mission. These were based on a detailed product-by-product analysis
for 36 commodity groups which comprise 88% of railway traffic. Total national
traffic was estimated, distinguished where appropriate into traffic derived
from imports and national production. These estimates were related to projected
traffic shares for each commodity. For the remaining 12% of traffic, forecasts
were made by relating railway traffic to appropriate macro-economic indicators.
These forecasts of traffic demand were then adjusted to reflect N de M's
ability to physically carry all the traffic offered. The lack of investment
in the past, leading to inadequate motive power and emerging yard and line
capacity constraints, has dampened demand. During 1978 and 1979, demand wqas
suppressed and traffic diverted to road. While the N de M and SCT investment
programs were designed to meet traffic demand, it is expected that traffic
growth will lag somewhat behind demand during the period of the program
implementation. The economic and financial evaluations are based on traffic
growth projections which take this lag into account. Traffic growth in terms
of ton-km was forecast by commodity by applying estimates of future average
lengths of haul. To obtain line densities, the tonnages were distributed by
commodity along the lines in the same proportion as exist at present, with the
exception of iron ore, coal, coke, and fertilizer traffic (about 30% of total
traffic), for which commodity origin and destination matrices were projected
individually.
6.        Several sources were used in the commodity analyses.  The most
important was information furnished directly by the major users to N de M
regarding future production plans and transport needs. In addition, the
macro-economic framework presented in the Plan Nacional de Desarrollo Industrial
for 1980-1982 was taken into account.  In particular, GDP growth is assumed to
fluctuate around 8% during 1980 to 1985. The forecasts also assume that
population growth rates will fall significantly from 2.9% in 1979 to 2.5% by
1982 and to 1% p.a. by the year 2000. To the extent that this is overly
optimistic, the traffic forecasts, particularly those related to agricultural
products, can be considered conservative.
7.        Between 1979 and 1985, freight tonnage is expected to increase by
6.6% p.a. to about 80 million tons and ton-km by 7.3% p.a. to 46 billion
ton-km. The following table summarizes the structure of the traffic and its



- 80 -
ANqNEX 5
Page 3
expected growth. Table 2.4 of the main report gives detailed traffic
projections for this period. Paragraphs 9 through 23 of this annex discuss
the assumptions underlying the forecasts for the major commodities carried
by N de Hf.
1979              1985              Average Annual
million           million                 Growth
Products            net tons    %    net tons    %    1979-85   1970-78
Agricultural                 9.5     17.4      14.0    17.4      6.7       3.9
Mineral                     14.4      26.3     24.3    30.3       2.4      4.1
Petroleum                    4.2      7.7       4.0      5.0    -1.0       2.0
Inorganic                    6.9     12.6       8.8    11.0      4.1       2.5
Intermediate Industrial   19.1       34.9      28.8    35.9      7.1       8.8
Other                        0.5      0.9       0.4      0.5    -3.7      -2.2
Total (tons)           54.7    100.0       80.3   100.0      6.6       4.9
(ton-km)        30.1                45.9              7.3       6.4
These forecasts are in line with an expected long-term trend toward decreasing
rail transport intensity in the Mexican economy.  As Mexico's economy develops,
the transport of industrial finished products, which are carried mainly by
road transport, is expected to grow faster than that of bulk long-haul primary
and intermediate products which form the railway's market. Furthermore, with
increased regionalization of economic activity, hauls for some products can
be expected to decrease, cutting into the railway's competitive edge. Between
1974 and 1978, N de M's transport intensity fluctuated between 0.067 and 0.070
ton-km per GDP. These traffic projections imply a reduction of rail transport
intensity of 0.064 ton-km per unit GDP by 1982 and about 0.060 ton-km per unit
GDP by 1985.
8.           N de M projects long-term growth rate of 5.7% in terms of tons
between 1985 and 2000. This forecast, which is based on the same methodology
as that described in paragraph 5 above, assumed that the Mexican economy would
experience sustained high growth of 10% p.a. from 1985 to 1990, dropping to 8%
thereafter. This optimistic forecast should be considered an upper bound. The
appraisal mission revised the long-term traffic forecasts to reflect more conser-
vative assumptions of economic growth; in particular, it is assumed that GDP
growth would slow to 7% between 1985-1990 and to 6% thereafter. The average
annual growth rate, 1985-2000, used in the economic analysis and based on the
revised assumptions, is estimated at 4.6% p.a. in terms of tons and about 5% p.a.
in terms of ton-km, which is closer to the historical long-term growth trend.
C. Agricultural Products
9.        The transport of agricultural products by rail in Mexico will be
influenced by increases in national consumption (which depends on the rate of
population growth and income) as well as by Mexico's progress in reaching its
goal of grain self-sufficiency. These traffic forecasts are based on infor-
mation currently available from CONASUPO, the national grain agency, regarding



- 81 -
ANNEX 5
Page 4
consumption, production and imports. The basic underlying assumptions
are that (1) population growth over the next two decades will decrease
from 2.9 to 1.0% p.a.; and (2) Mexico will import basic grains in large
quantities until 1985, at which time achieving self-sufficiency. In
general, the decline in the level of imports which, unlike traffic from
national production, are mostly carried by rail, will result in a decline in
the railway's share of total traffic. As such, the traffic forecasts can be
considered conservative to the extent to which the assumed rate at which
Mexico can achieve these goals and reduce imports is overly optimistic. The
implication of these assumptions for railway traffic is a 6.6% increase p.a.
in agricultural tonnage moved between 1979-1985, declining to 2.6% p.a. growth
in the following decade. The major products are detailed below.
Basic Grains
10.       Three major grains -  corn, wheat and sorghum - make up about 60% of
all agricultural products moved by rail. Beans and forages make up another
7%.  CONASUPO and N de M expect extraordinarily high levels of corn, wheat
and sorghum traffic in 1980 because of heavy program of imports. The levels are
expected to drop off somewhat in 1981 and grow moderately until 1985. Corn
consumption is expected to grow from 12 million tons in 1980 to 14 million tons
by 1985. The railway expects to carry 3.4 million tons in 1980, dropping to
2.3 million tons in 1981. Corn traffic is expected to grow at about 4% p.a.
until 1985. Wheat traffic, while following similar pattern, is expected to
grow at a higher pace as rising income levels result in a switch in consumption
from corn to wheat. Consumption is expected to grow from about 4 million tons
in 1980 to 5.6 million in 1981. With some 53% of national production and almost
all imports carried by rail, these levels of consumption imply an increase in
traffic from 1.8 million tons in 1979 to 3.3 million tons by 1985. Sorghum
consumption is related to the growth of the livestock industry, whose gross
product is expected to grow at 3% p.a. over the forecast period. Like corn,
sorghum traffic is expected to be exceptional in 1980 (2.8 million tons). In
1981, traffic is expected to decline to 2.3 million tons, thereafter growing
at a rate of 3.1% p.a. until 1985.
Oleaginous Seeds
11.       Consumption of oleaginous seeds, which make up about 8% of all
agricultural products moved by rail, is projected 'to grow at 5.7% over the
forecast period. In contrast, rail traffic in these commodities is expected
to stabilize around 1 million tons, with the railway's share of total traffic
decreasing.
D.   Mineral Products
Coal
12.       The coal traffic forecasts are based on information provided by
SIDERMEX regarding coal transport needs at its two major plants, Altos Hornos
de Mexico (AHMSA) and SICARTSA. AHMSA coal requirements are estimated to grow



- 82 -
ANNEX 5
Page 5
from 2.5 million tons in 1980 to 3.3 million tons in 1985. After 1985, coal
traffic to this plant is expected to remain constant. In contrast, SICARTSA
is expected to import most of its coal through the Lazaro Cardenas port until
1982.  In 1983 onward, SICARTSA expects to use some 0.7 million tons of
national coal, which will be transported by rail.  Another 1 million tons will
be transported annually to the Monterrey area.
Coke
13.       Coke transport by rail to the major users, the steel mills at
Monterrey (Fundidora Monterrey) is expected to be maintained at between 0.7 and
0.8 million tons between 1980 and 1985. The remainder of coke transport to
various users is expected to increase at about 6% p.a. from 0.5 million tons in
1979 to 0.9 million tons by 1985.
Iron Ore
14.     The traffic forecast for iron ore is based on an origin-destination
study prepared with information provided by SIDERMEX. While some minor
expansions are expected at the ARMSA and Fundidora M4onterrey steel mills, the
major expansions are expected at Lazaro Cardenas and Tampico. It is expected
that the Tampico steel mills' iron ore needs will be met through imports
through ports. As such, iron ore rail traffic is not expected to grow at the
same pace as the steel industry.  Nevertheless, iron ore traffic is expected
to increase sharply in 1980 (from 7.8 million tons in 1979 to 9.5 million tons
in 1980), not because of a change in the demand for rail transport, but because,
in 1978 and 1979, the railway was unable to carry all the traffic it was
offered and demand was consequently suppressed. Between 1980 and 1985, iron ore
traffic is expected to grow at 6% p.a.
E.   Petroleum Products
15.     Traffic of petroleum and its derivatives is expected to grow at a
reduced rate over the forecast period, declining in absolute terms, in 1985, to
4 million tons as rail loses its share of total transport to pipelines and
road transport.
F. Inorganic Products
Limestone
16.     Limestone represented about 30% of traffic of inorganic products in
1979; it is expected to account for 63% of traffic growth in this category
between 1979 and 1985. Limestone traffic is expected to grow more slowly than
the cement industry given the regionalization of the cement industry and the trend
toward locating new production near primary materials. These forecasts include
only additional traffic to serve plant expansions at Telalnepantla and La Junta
and assume that traffic to plants at Monterrey and San Pedro de los Pinos



- 83 -
ANNEX 5
Page 6
will remain at current levels. This assumption implies an increase in lime-
stone traffic of 7.9% between 1979 and 1985. Thereafter, limestone traffic
will grow at about 1% p.a. to serve the needs of industries not related to
cement production.
Other Inorganic Products
17.     Traffic of other inorganic products, including salt, silica sand,
sand and gravel, clay, and sulphur, is expected to grow moderately, at
2.3% p.a. between 1979 and 1985. The growth of salt traffic, which was
related to population growth, is expected to decline from 5.7% p.a. between
1970 and 1978 to 2.6% over the forecast period. Silica sand, related to
expected growth in the glass industry, is expected to increase by 9.4% p.a.
until 1985 as compared with an historical rate of 7% p.a.
G.   Industrial Products
18.       Industry will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production
and exports in the years of high economic growth ahead. Industry in Mexico
has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas, including efficient
import substitution in, among other things, chemicals, petrolchemicals and
capital goods. The impact of this growth on railway traffic will be important,
especially for the transport of bulk industrial intermediate products. Thus,
N de M is expecting industrial products to have the highest traffic growth rate
in the coming years. Three product groups (sugar, cement and fertilizers)
represent almost 50% of this category in terms of tons and account for 85% of
its forecast traffic growth.
Sugar
19.       Sugar traffic forecasts were prepared based on production and
consumption information provided by Financiera Nacional Azucarero which projects
that sugar production will increase by an average rate of about 7% per year
between 1979 and 1985. National production is expected at 2.87 million tons in
1980, growing to 4.1 million tons by 1985. The participation of rail in the
transport of sugar is expected to decline somewhat from 57% in 1979 to about
50% over the forecast period. These assumptions imply a 6.1% increase in
sugar traffic between 1979 and 1985.
Cement
20.       N de M prepared cement traffic forecasts based on information provided
by the Camara Nacional de la Industria de Cemento. Cement production is expected
to increase by 13% p.a., reaching 31.4 million tons by 1985 up from a growth rate
of 8.8% p.a. between 1970 and 1978. The railway moved about 33% of all cement in
1979. Its share in total cement traffic, however, is expected to decline to about
25% by 1985, a decline from 43% in 1977, given the trend toward the regionalization
of cement plants. These assumptions imply a growth rate of traffic at 9.2% between
1979 and 1985.



- 84 -
ANNEX 5
Page 7
Fertilizers
21.       Fertilizer traffic includes the finished product as well as its
intermediate inputs (phosphoric acid, sulfuric acid, phosphoric rock and
ammonia) whose average hauls range from 580 km (sulfuric acid) to 672 km
(finished products). The distribution of fertilizers and their primary
materials is handled by FERTIMEX. Until 1978, FERTIMEX moved about 90% of
its traffic by rail. In 1978, railway bottlenecks, primarily caused by short-
age of locomotives and rolling stock, resulted in the railway's failure to
carry the traffic offered. In 1978 and to a lesser extent in 1979, traffic
shifted to trucks; only 60% of FERTIMEX's traffic was transported by rail in
1978. Interviews with FERTIMEX confirm that this shift to road transport is
temporary and that, in 1980, the railways will resume the dominant role in the
transport of fertilizers and primary materials. At the same time, however,
plans to locate some fertilizer plants near centers of consumption will be
reflected in a decline in rail transport as a percentage of total consumption
from 90% to 84% over the forecast period. The traffic forecasts were prepared
by N de M in close collaboration with FERTIMEX regarding its production and
distribution plans, and reflect the Government's plans to stimulate the
agricultural sector in a push toward grain self-sufficiency and improved rural
incomes. Fertilizer traffic is expected to increase from 2.9 million tons in
1979 to 3.9 million tons in 1980. This sharp increase reflects the recuperation
by the railway of fertilizer traffic which was diverted to truck transport in
the previous two years. Fertilizer traffic is expected to grow by 11% p.a.
until 1985.
Products Related to the Steel Industry
22.         SIDERMEX provided information used to project traffic in interme-
diate products related to the steel industry based on, inter alia, production
plans by AXMSA, SICARTSA and HYSLA groups. Like the industry, traffic in iron
for construction, in bars and and steel plates, is expected to be dynamic,
growing at 8.1% p.a. between 1979 and 1985. The railway is expected to maintain
its historical share in the movement of these products, about 14% for construc-
tion iron and 22% for steel plates.
Chemical Products
23.         The chemical industry (exclusive of agro-chemicals) is expected to
experience important expansions over the next decade. PEMEX has started an
ambitious investment program to produce a variety of primary petrochemicals
on a large scale, both for domestic consumption and exports. While the rail-
way's share in the movement of national production is relatively small, it
has remained stable at about 7% over the last decade. The railway expects
to maintain this share, at least during the 1979-1985 period, serving the
industry's long-haul traffic. The railway plays an important role in import
traffic, transporting about 60% of all imports. While imports of petro-
chemicals are expected to drop off by 1985, imports of basic organic
will continue growing at an expected pace of 12% p.a. over the next decade.
The railway's traffic is expected to grow more slowly than the industry as
imports lose their relative importance in national consumption. Thus, while
consumption is expected to increase by 12% p.a. until 1985, railway traffic
growth is forecast at 8.6% over the same period.
August 1989



- 85 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
M4EXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the N de M Investment Plan
A.   General Methodology
1.        The economic evaluation concentrates on the three years of N de M's
Investment Plan which make up the project period, 1981-1983. The economic
viability of investments in rolling stock and motive power, track renewal and
associated track machinery, bridge rehabilitation and CTC is assessed. These
subprojects constitute about 85% of the total cost of the lan. Items not
evaluated include miscellaneous station and building works; minor investments
in telecommunications, electricity and lighting; workshop machinery of a
replacement nature, service cars and technical assistance. The economic costs
include physical contingencies and exclude taxes.
2.        The N de M Investment Plan is an integrated package with a number
of interrelated components. For example, the realization of benefits from
capacity-increasing investments, such as investments in rolling stock and
motive power, is dependent upon the availability of adequately maintained
infrastructure which will allow commercial speeds, and locomotive and car
utilization envisaged under the Plan of Action. In turn, the benefits from
works such as track renewal, which prevent line deterioration, thereby avoiding
capacity restrictions, are dependent in part upon the availability of adequate
motive power and rolling stock to carry forecast traffic. In the evaluation
of the N de M Investment Plan, each of the subpr&jects is first evaluated
separately to determine its economic viability. Because of the interrelation-
ship between the subprojects, however, some degree of overlap is unavoidable
in evaluating each separately. Thus, for example, it is assumed, when evalua-
ting infrastructure investments (track renewal and CTC), that expansions of
fleet and motive power will take place to sustain the increasing traffic.
Their depreciation is included in the operating costs on these lines, and
it is assumed that the operational improvements under the Action Plan will be
realized. Because of this type of overlapping, the total benefits to the
Investment Plan cannot be taken as the sum of the benefits from each sub-
project. In evaluating the Investment Plan as a whole, therefore, care has
to be taken to avoid double counting in arriving at the economic return of the
investment program, as described in section E following.
B.   Acquisition of Motive Power and Rolling Stock
3.        The program of acquisition of motive power and rolling stock repre-
sents about 70% of the three-year Investment Plan. The determination of
needs was analyzed on a network-wide basis, taking into account traffic demand
forecasts as well as targets for improved operating performance, particularly
increases in locomotive and car utilization, locomotive availability and
average train loads. The car acquisition program provides for increased



- 86 -
ANNEX 6
Page 2
capacity, and the motive power acquisition program provides for (a) procurement
of additional line and yard motive power to meet additional forecast traffic
and (b) procurement of motive power to replace scrapped units which have
reached the end of their useful life.
4.        There are a number of ways to approach the evaluation of investments
in motive power and rolling stock. In this analysis, the without case assumes
that investments are not made (including investments in renewal motive power
which has reached the end of its economic life), and, consequently, traffic is
diverted to road at a higher economic cost. An alternative methodology would
be to separate renewal motive power from the capacity-increasing investments
and compare operating and maintenance costs of new locomotives with those
slated for replacement. This procedure generally will lead to high rates of
return since equipment which has reached the end of its economic life has, by
definition, excessively high operating and maintenance costs. This approach
was not followed in this analysis because N de M's scrapping program, with
detailed breakdown of the locomotives scheduled for scrapping, was not avail-
able at appraisal. N de M is in the process of completing a review of its
locomotive needs and has furnished to the Bank an integrated program on the
locomotive scrapping. By evaluating renewal motive power in the same manner
as investment in motive power and rolling stock for increased capacity, the
analysis is conservative.
5.        Table 1 of this annex presents the methodology used to calculate
benefits. Project benefits consist of savings derived from rail transporta-
tion as compared with road transport. Truck operating costs, prepared by
SAIOP, are for a 22-ton truck with a 16-ton average load running on a slightly
undulating paved road at 50 km/hour. Truck costs, which include the estimated
contribution of the diverted traffic to the marginal cost of road maintenance,
are taken at Mex$ 0.70 per ton-km. Long run-variable rail costs, excluding the
capital costs of the wagons and locomotives (as these are included in the cost
stream for the economic return calculation) are estimated at Mex$ 0.26 per
ton-km, including terminal costs. In both cases, diesel fuel was priced
at its opportunity cost (December 1979) of Mex$ 4.5/liter (US$0.90/gallon)
rather than its heavily subsidized financial price (Mex$ 1/liter or US$0.20/
gallon). A more refined analysis would compare the costs of road and rail
transport on a commodity-by-commodity basis. Because reliable information on
truck costs by commodity was not available, this type of analysis was not
possible. To guard against an overstating of benefits, it was assumed that
the truck which would be utilized in the without case had a high average load
(about 75%). In practice, back hauls are often empty in the truck transport
of bulk commodities which characterize rail traffic, and, therefore, truck
transport costs are somewhat higher than those assumed in the analysis.
6.        While petroleum prices are projected to increase in real terms over
the project period (Price Prospects for Major Primary Commodities, January
1980, IBRD Report No. 814/80), this analysis assumes no change in road and
rail transport costs due to increasing energy costs over the project period.
Thus, since diesel fuel consumption is a more important component in the
variable cost of road transport than of rail, the analysis is conservative.



- 87 -
AITNEX 6
Page 3
C.   Track Renewal and Bridge Rehabilitation
7.        N de M has been carrying out a program of selective track renewal
on its principal traffic routes, using heavy rail with welded rail joints and
elastic type fastenings which are supported on concrete sleepers and new stone
ballast. The objective is to provide an improved standard of track for
sections where important traffic increases are taking place and also where
heavier locomotives and freight cars are in use. Maintenance on some of
these lines has been neglected, and they have reached the point where speed
restrictions have been imposed for safety purposes. Secondary lines are also
being renovated with rails released from the main routes. In addition, the
program calls for the reconstruction of a number of bridges and culverts.
These investments can be considered as periodic maintenance to replace worn
out track as well as to upgrade the main line system. The lines slated for
upgrading with new rail were selected after a review of track conditions and
taking into account levels of traffic. The work is concentrated in two main
corridors. The first, the southeastern corridor from Mexico City to Veracruz
and Coatzocoalcos, is expected to experience higher-than-average traffic growth
given the oil-based development in the gulf coast cities. About 30% of the
traffic along the route is agricultural-based, mainly grain from the port of
Veracruz to Mexico City. Another 20% is taken up by mineral products and 40%
by miscellaneous intermediate industrial products. The second area scheduled
for rail renewal encompasses the lines radiating from Monterrey. These lines
feed imports from the U.S. to the region and also serve as the main line
to Mexico City. In addition, large quantities of iron ore move along this
corridor to the steel plant at Monterrey and AHMSA.
8.        The quantified benefits from main line track renewal are (a) the
reduction in track maintenance costs, including avoidance of investment in
deferred maintenance to bring the lines to a minimum standard of safety; and
(b) avoidance of track deterioration which, without the project, would lead
to extensive speed restrictions, ultimately limiting line capacity and causing
diversion of traffic from rail to road. Benefits from reduced wear and,
therefore, maintenance of locomotives and rolling stock, and from increased
safety, were not quantified. Table 2 of this annex gives details of the
economic evaluation by line. Maintenance cost savings calculations were based
on the following assumptions. In the "without" case, year 1 maintenance costs
represent the cost of deferred maintenance needed to upgrade the line to a
minimum level of safety. In subsequent years, maintenance costs are assumed
at Mex$ 217,000/km, increasing proportionately with traffic until the line is
saturated. In the "with" project case, maintenance costs rise from
Mex$ 36,000/km to Mex$ 181,000 by year 10, remaining constant over the life
of the project. In calculating benefits from avoiding diversion of traffic
from rail to road transport, a line capacity analysis was carried out which
identified the year in which speed reductions from rail deterioration, given
increasing traffic, would result in saturation of the line. To quantify the
benefit from avoidance of traffic diversion, rail line specific long-run
variable rail costs per ton-km (including terminal costs) were calculated.
These costs include depreciation of fleet and motive power, thus assuming



- 88 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4
that rolling stock and locomotives adequate to meet traffic increases would
be available. Investment in these items is thus implicitly evaluated in the
analysis. As in the analysis of investments in motive power and rolling stock
(section B preceding), road transport costs are taken at Mex$ 0.70/ton-km, and
diesel fuel is priced at its opportunity cost.
9.        To arrive at ton-km diverted from rail to road, it was assumed that,
after the line became saturated, any future increases in traffic would be
diverted. Although the diverted traffic would have average hauls longer than
the section being improved, in order to avoid double counting on corridors
where more than one section is being improved, tons diverted were multiplied
by the section length rather than the average haul.
10.       Benefits from track renewal with recovered rail on secondary lines
include (a) reduced track maintenance costs and (b) improved equipment utiliza-
tion due to increased speeds on lines which, without the project, would be
subject to speed restrictions. Maintenance costs without the project were
taken at Mex$ 223,000/km. In the "with" project case, maintenance costs were
assumed to rise from Mex$ 56,000/km in year 2 to Mex$ 169,000/km by year 4,
remaining constant until the end of the project (year 13). To quantify savings
from removal of speed restrictions, an average increase "with" the project
from 30 km/hour to 40 km/hour was estimated, implying savings of .008/hour per
kilometer. With equipment costs for train characteristic on these lines
estimated at Mex$ 0.71/gross ton-hour, the line improvements yield on average
a saving of Mex$ 0.006 per gross ton-km, which was applied to forecast traffic
on these lines. The economic rate of return on these investments is 21%.
11.       The N de M program of bridge rehabilitation calls for the strengthen-
ing and, where necessary, the replacement of older bridges to carry heavier
locomotives and car axle loads now in use in the system, at a rate of approx-
imately 170 bridges per year. The quantified benefits from these works consist
of savings from improved equipment utilization by avoiding abnormally low
speeds on bridges with speed restrictions. Without the project, trains must
reduce speeds by 15 km/hour on average on bridges where precautionary orders
are in force. These orders will be rescinded once the works are completed.
Time savings were estimated at 84 seconds per train per bridge. The average
cost per freight train hour is Mex$ 1,600/hour; for passenger trains,
Mex$ 1,000/hour. Cost per train/hour includes cost of locomotives and cars
only. The benefit per bridge was calculated as
(number of freight)      (Mex$ 1,600)   84 sec                 +
trains/year                             3,600 sec/hour
(number of passenger)    (Mex$ 1,000)   84 sec              =  Annual benefit
trains/year                             3,600 sec/hour        per year per
bridge
To calculate the economic rate of return, the benefit stream was projected
using the expected growth in traffic over the useful life of the project,
yielding an economic rate of return of 26%.



- 89 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5
D.   Centralized Traffic Control Signaling
12.       The 1981-1983 Investment Plan provides for the acquisition and
installation of a CTC system on three high density lines: Irapuato-Guadalajara,
San Luis Potosi-B. Mendez and (tentatively) Teotihuacan-Los Reyes. The first
two are evaluated here. Because the third represents an integral part of one
of the subprojects included in the SCT Infrastructure Program, the two have
been analyzed together (Annex 7 gives details). The Irapuato-Guadalajara line
is forecast to grow at about 8% p.a. between 1979-1985 and at about 4% there-
after. The traffic on this corridor is composed principally of minerals (44%)
and agricultural products (29%). Traffic on the second line, B. Mendez-San Luis
Potosi, is also expected to grow at about 8% p.a. until 1985, slowing to 5.5%
thereafter. Traffic on this main line is composed principally of intermediate
industrial products (43%), particularly fertilizers and t-affic related to the
steel industry, as well as mineral products (38%). Agricultural traffic
on this line accounts for about 11% of total traffic. Project benefits
consist principally of savings derived from avoidance of delays on the line
and savings due to increased line capacity. Benefits from avoidance of delays
were calculated by estimating locomotive, wagon, fuel, and repair costs per
hour and applying them to the difference in train running time, with and
without the project, in a base year and projected as a function of expected
traffic. In calculating benefits from increased line capacity, it was assumed
that, without the proposed investment, the line would become saturated as
traffic grew, resulting in the diversion of traffic to roads at a higher
economic cost. This benefit was calculated in the same manner as described in
paragraph 9 above. Details are given in Table 3 of this annex.
E.   Overall Economic Return on the N de M Investment Plan
13.       As noted in paragraph 2, the benefits associated with the subprojects
which make up the N1 de M Investment Plan are interrelated. For the purposes
of arriving at an overall economic rate of return for the Plan, the inter-
action between the infrastructure projects (track renewal, bridge rehabilita-
tion and CTC) on the one hand, and investment in rolling stock and motive
power on the other, had to be identified and eliminated in order to avoid
double-counting of benefits. The following procedure was used:
(a) It was assumed that expansions of motive power and fleet would
take place to sustain traffic on those corridors where infra-
structure improvements were scheduled. By including the depre-
ciation of these items in the rail operating costs used to
calculate benefits from avoidance of traffic diversion from rail
to road, these investments were implicitly evaluated.
(b) The corridors which were scheduled for upgrading, whether through
the rail renewal program, bridge rehabilitation or CTC investments,
were identified, along with the expected traffic flows. It was
determined that about 70% of the expected traffic growth, which the
motive power and rolling stock program was designed to meet, would
flow through the affected corridors. The balance would flow on
lines not directly affected by the program.



- 90 -
ANNEX 6
(3) In computing the overall rate of return, all of the costs and
benefits of the infrastructure works were included. There is
no interaction between these benefits. Only 30% of the costs
and benefits of the investment in motive power and rolling stock
was included.  This amount represents that portion of the investment
not implicitly analyzed in the evaluation of the infrastructure
program.
The overall economic rate of return on the N de M Investment Plan is 22%.
August 1980



- 91 -                              ANNEX 6
Table 1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
Motive Power and Rolling Stock
Traffic that would be
Economic    Diverted to Road Transport    Transport Cst
Year                Costs 1        Without the Project  ]         Savings -
(M$ million)     (Million net ton-km")        (M$ million)
1981                 5,803                 _                          _
1982                 4,822               2,157                        949
1983                 5,310               4,416                      1,943
1984-2001               -                7,121                      3,133
Economic Rate of Return is 18%
1/ Includes investment in motive power and rolling stock for revenue traffic
exclusive of taxes.
2/ Based on analysis of freight car requirements (Table 2.4); includes
traffic which would be carried by freight cars being purchased for increased
capacity as well as that which would be carried in freight cars replacing
scrapped units which have reached the end of their economic life.
3/ Derived from the difference between transport costs by rail and road.
Long run variable rail costs.,excluding capital costs of wagons and locomotives
which are included as an economic cost, including terminal costs, average
M$ 0.26 per ton-km. Long run variable trucking costs, estimated at M$ 0.70
per ton-km, are based on a 22-ton truck with a 16-ton average load running
on a slightly undulating paved road at 50 km/hour. Truck costs include the
estimated contribution of the diverted traffic to the marginal cost of road
maintenance. In both cases, diesel fuel was priced at its opportunity
cost of M$ 4.5/liter (US$0.90/gallon) rather than its financial price
(M$ 1/liter or US$0.20/gallon) which is heavily subsidized.
Source, N de M and Mission Estimates
November 1980



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation - Rail Renewal Program (New Rail)  b981-193/
Benefits From Avoiding Diversion of Traffic
First Year                             Total Trans          Total
in which     Traffic                   port Cost        rransport
Traffic      Diverted  Transport   Savings in             Cost
a/           Diverted      in that    Savings    First Year           Savings in      Economic
Year of        Economic             Maintenance Cost Savings                   w/out the    First        per netd/  of Traffic         Last Year        Rate of
Sub-Project                             Length   Investment          Cost           Year 1          Year 5         Year 10         Proect          Year      ton-km                            Project
Sub-Project               Length                   _________    ___tr______t                                                         Yea       to -k        Diversion        ofPoet            Return
(ki)                  (M$ million)  (M$ million)   (M$ million)  (M$ million)                         (million     (M$)       (M$ million)    (M$ million)          ()
net ton-km)
Silos-Cerritos                              58        1981           141.6            38.7            10.5            2.1            1989          13.9         0.38           5.3              83.2             15
Monterrey-Paredon                           85         1981           206.0           44.8             15.3            6.1            1990         25.6         0 41          10.5              1]0.0            15
Ramos Arizpe-Paredon                        57        1983           138.6             27.4            10.3           4.1             1996         46.1         0.41          18.9             164.7             17
Teotihuacan-Los Reyes                      150        1983           364.4             69.0           32.7           27.5             1995        181.1         0.38          68.8             665.4             18
Cordoba-Tejeria                             88         1982          213.2             32.4            19.9           19.0            1990         33.9         0.41          13.9              244.9            18
Cordoba-Tierra Blanca                       93         1982          225.8            41.2             22.2           18.7            1991         49.4         0.38          18.8              281.2            18
Tierra Blanca-Papaloapan                    52        1981           106.1            23.1              9.1            6.5            1989         15.0         0.41           6.2               99.5            16    )
Papaloapan-Medias Aguas                     76        1981           185.4            40.4             16.8          14.7            1990          32.0         0.41          13.1             200.5             17
Coatzocoalcos-Medias Aguas                  57         1983          139.1             31.8            12.3           10.0            1994         20.0         0.48           9.6              100.8            15
Acambaro-Escobedo                           85         1982          207.4            43.6             19.6           19.5            1991         22.8         0.41           9.4              143.3            16
a/  Maintenance cost savings calculations were based on the following assumptions:  In the "without" project case, year I maintenance costs represent the cost of deferred
maintenance needed to upgrade the line to minimum safety levels.  In subsequent years, maintenance costs are M$ 217,000/km  increasing proportionately with traffic
until year in which the line is saturated.  In the "with" case, maintenance costs rise from M$ 36,000/km in year 2 to M$ 181,000 by year 10, remaining constant at
that level over the life of the project,
b/  Benefits from avoiding diversion of traffic from, rail to road transport are based on the following assumptions:  In the "without" case, the rail condition continues
to deteriorate despite maintenance, causing speed restrictions leading to decreased line capacity.  At a given point (c/) line capacity cannot meet traffic demand,
causing this traffic to divert to road transport at a higher economic cost (d/).  In the "with" case, speed restrictions are avoided, resulting in sufficient line
capacity to meet traffic demand.
c/ First year in which traffic diverted without the project is based on line capacity analysis.
d/  Transport cost savings per net ton-km are the difference between (i) rail line specific long run variable costs (including terminal costs) per ton-ksl,, and (ii) truck
long run variable costs estimated at M$ 0.70 per ton-km. In both instances, fuel is priced at its opportunity cost of M$ 4.5/liter (US$0.90/gallon).
Setrce:   N de M and Mission Estimates
,une 1980



MgXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Ecnonoic Evaluation - CTC Signaling
B e nBe f i t                                                 F r o          B A v o i d i n g   D e 1 a y  L
Traffic                                                                             Yen r in    First Year After Line
year in                                                                     which Lin.    Saturated Without             End of Project's
which Line           T i n e      S a v i n g s                               Satur-ted           Pratect                 Economic Life
Economic Coets                Capacity              First    Saturated       First Year of         Year in Which Line         Firat         in the        Traffic
!/                                   Annual       Without         With      Year of    Without            Benefits               is Saturated         Year of        Without       Diverted                    Traffic                    Economic Rate
Line                      Investuent Maintenance  Investment  Investment  Benefits   Prolect    Freight c/ P ssens. r  Freight c/ Passenger   Benefits e/                   Cane f/    /year        Benefits S/  Diverted   Benefits S/          of Return
(M$ eitlion) (MN  million)  (trina/         taiins    (traino/  (trains/    (hours/    (hours/    (hours/    (hours/             (M$/year)    (M$/year)   (nillion    (M$ m llion)  (lilion   (M$ million)
day)         day)        day        day        day) d/       day) d/   day) d/       day) A/                                    net                          .et
(year))   (year))                                                                                      ton-ku)                     tn-kn)
B. 4ende-San Luis
potosi                     220             9            27           48      21 (1982)  27 (19S)    43.81           1.00        86.52       1.38          50.8         100D0           303          124          6,197        2,541              40
Gu-dalajara-Irapuato         155             8            29           48      21 (1982)  27 (1992)    60.57           1.35       100.17        1.44         51.5          85.0           255            58         2,980           598              33
a/  The CTC works on the T.otihuacan-Loa Reyes Section have been analyzed as part of the SCT investment of the Teotihuacan-Los Reyea rectification works.  Based on operating cost savings and benefits from  incrsanes in line
capacity, the overall project ha. an ERR of 32%. Details are available in the project file.
b/ Includes freight, mixed and passenger trains.
c/  Includes freight snd mi-ed trains
d/  Calculeted as the difference in total travel tine on the line (including transit time aod croasing time) per train per day, multiplied by the number of trains daily.
a! Calculated an the number of hours saved per day times the value per hour, multiplied by 360.
For the B. Mendez-San Luis Potosi line, the average freight car has 3 locomotives (3,000 HP), 89 cars and I cabus, yielding a total coat per hour of Men$ 3.192; the hourly cost per passenger train is esti-ated
at Mex$ 1,164.  For the Irapuato-Guadalajara line, the average freight train is conposed of 2 locomotives (3,000 HP), 76 cars and I cakus, yielding an hourly cost of Mex$ 2,350.  The cost per hour of a passenger
train ie Mei$ 1,160,  Slied trains are estimated ti  coat MaS$ 1,567/hour.
f   The analysis assume5 that without the inyestment traffic would be diverted to road transport after the line is saturated.  As such, benefits from  avoiding delays are kept constant after year in which tie line
would be saturated in the without case.
g/  Calculated as the difference between road and rsil long  -m variable transport coats, multiplied by traffic diverted,  Ton transport costs sue estimated at Max$ 0.70/-m for road and Me.$ 0.29/rail.  These
estimates include diesel fuel priced at its opportunity cost of Mex$ 4.5/liter (US$0.90/gallon).
source:  N da M and Mission Eatimates
June 1980



- 94 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1
IEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the SCT Infrastructure Program
I.        General
1.        The SCT program (1979-1985) of infrastructure works is designed
to eliminate capacity and/or major operational constraints and to provide
additional capacity to handle the increasing volumes of traffic forecast by
N de M, The subprojects which make up the program consist of:
(a) line rehabilitation and reconstruction;
(b) new marshaling yard construction; and
(c) construction of new lines.
In addition, SCT is considering the electrification of the Mexico City-
Huehuetoca-Queretaro-Irapuato main line.
2.        This annex describes the proposed subprojects slated for implemen-
tation in 1981-1985 (Table 3.2 of report). SCT has completed economic evalua-
tions for about 80% of the subprojects. In the evaluation of the subprojects,
it was assumed that the N de M investment program would be implemented. The
rate of return on the SCT subprojects represents their economic contribution
when the related subprojects in the N de M program are undertaken. For
example, if adequate rolling stock and motive power are not provided, then the
benefits from increased line capacity would not be realized. Those subprojects
which have been evaluated are well justified, with economic rates of return
varying from 16% to 33%, with an overall rate of return of 22%.
II.       Line Rehabilitation and Relocation Program
3.        The SCT line improvement subprojects proposed for the 1981-1985
period are principally concerned with main traffic corridors to and from
Mexico City:
(a) toward the east and southeast to the Atlantic seaports
of Veracruz and Coatzacoalcos;
(b) toward the west to Guadalajara and the Pacific ports of
Manzanillo and Lazaro Cardenas; and
(c) toward the north to Monterrey and the U.S.A.
These new subprojects are described on the following pages.



- 95 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2
A.   The Mexico City-Veracruz/Coatzacoalcos Corridor
4.        The SCT program of infrastructure works in the eastern and south-
eastern sections involve two principal single track lines:
(a) Teotihuacan (east of Mexico City) to Veracruz via Oriental
and Jalapa;
(b) Teotihuacan via San Marcos to Orizaba and Cordoba, thence
to both Veracruz and Coatzacoalcos.
Traffic is expected to grow by 5% to 7% over the next 10 years as imports
through Veracruz and development at Coatzacoalcos result in considerable
economic activity. This growth, added to the difficult physical conditions on
these lines 1/, has led to capacity problems. Even before the recent upsurge
of development took place, N de M had been encountering train capacity problems
on these routes and had consequently carried out, from 1975 onward, detailed
traffic capacity studies for the existing lines and the alternatives that
could be used to effect improvements in capacities. These covered the possi-
bilities of:
(a) increasing the lengths of existing crossing stations, as necessary,
enabling more trains of the current length to be operated;
(b) providing additional crossing stations on identified critical
sections to reduce station-to-station timings and thus, again,
enabling more trains to operate;
(c) increasing the lengths of all crossing stations to accommodate
longer trains and, hence, heavier loads per train;
(d) increasing the strengths of bridges, where necessary, to take
heavier axle loads and, thus, more powerful locomotives and higher
capacity freight cars;
(e) using larger and more powerful locomotives to give higher average
speeds and, thus, increasing the line capacity for trains;
(f) installing centralized train control and signaling (CTC) to provide
increased line capacity;
1/   The physical conditions are difficult because there is a steep climb
from the coastal plain and isthmus area to the 2,500 m high plateau on
which Mexico City stands. The railway route via Oriental and Jalapa has
grades of 2.9% (compensated for curvature) and curves down to 100 m
radius; that via San Marcos and Cordoba has steeper grades up to 4.8%
compensated and similar curvature.



- 96 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3
(g) constructing regrades and realignments to reduce the controlling
ruling grades and curvatures and, thus, increasing both train
speeds and therefore capacities and train loads; and
(h) providing double track on critical section lengths where the other
measures will not provide the long-term traffic capacity required.
The following subprojects emerged as a result of those studies.
(i) Teotihuacan-Los Reyes-Mendoza-Orizaba-Cordoba-Veracruz
5.        In 1978, SCT began work on the realignment of the Los Reyes-Mendoza
section of the Teotihuacan-Cordoba line. This work, which is expected to be
completed at the end of 1981, involves heavy earthworks and tunneling. It
will provide a ruling grade of 2.5% and easier curvature (200 m radius) on
this difficult section. SCT is now considering further improvements on this
line to meet the long-term capacities of two routes (via Jalapa and via
Los Reyes) for traffic to and from Veracruz. The alternative under consider-
ation, which will develop the route as the major corridor for both Veracruz
and Coatzacoalcos traffic, involves doubling the track on the Los Reyes-Orizaba-
Cordoba hill sections by:
(i) using the new realigned single track route for uphill
traffic (Mendoza-Los Reyes);
(ii) retaining, after improvements, the existing steep single
track (Los Reyes-Mendoza) for downhill traffic;
(iii) constructing the improved Mendoza-Orizaba-Cordoba line
as a double track route now, instead of as a single track,
as previously envisaged; and
(iv) regrading between Cordoba and Paso del Macho in order to
improve transit traffic between Veracruz and Cordoba.
6.        The investment in the Mendoza-Cordoba double line is not yet included
in the SCT investment program. Nevertheless, SCT has prepared an economic
evaluation of the Los Reyes-Mendoza-Cordoba improvements ((ii) and (iii) above)
which would be carried out in 1981-1983. Based on operating cost savings and
those from increased capacity, quantified as savings in transport costs by
avoiding the diversion of traffic from rail to road, this subproject has an
ERR of 16%. An economic analysis of the regrading works between Cordoba and
Paso del Macho has not yet been prepared.
(ii) Teotihuacan-San Marcos-Los Reyes
7.        This subproject consists of limited regrades on the plateau section
of the single track line between Teotihuacan and San Marcos (connecting to Los
Reyes and Cordoba) to reduce the ruling grades from 1.50 to 1.00%. This line,
after the installation of CTC (included tentatively in the 1981-1983 N de M
program) and the introduction of heavier trains, will have adequate train
capacity for 25-30 years ahead. The regrading works and CTC were analyzed
jointly, yielding an economic return of 32%.



- 97 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
(iii) Apizaco-Puebla
8.        This is a branch line which connects to the Teotihuacan-San Marcos
line. The Apizaco-Puebla line carries a frequent service of unit ore trains
which require additional locomotive assistance over the two sections with
grades steeper than on the remainder of the line. This subproject, which is
scheduled for implementation in 1981 and 1982, provides for the regrading
of these sections in order to save, initially, the cost of assisting locomo-
tives; there is no train capacity problem in the short term. Capacity problems
will arise in the next 5 to 10 years, and the regrading will give adequate
capacity for 25-30 years ahead. Considering operating cost savings alone,
the subproject has an ERR of 20%.
(iv) Tierra Blanca-Medias Aguas-Coatzacoalcos
9.        This subproject, which is designed to improve operations and
increase line capacity, consists of regrading to reduce the ruling grade
from 2.25 to 1.30%. The works are scheduled for 1981-1982. Benefits include
reduced operating costs and transportation cost savings by avoiding the
diversion of traffic from rail to road if the project is not implemented.
These benefits yield a rate of return of 31%, assuming that traffic is increas-
ing by 5.2% per annum and that the line will be saturated in 1986 if the
project is not implemented.
(v) Mexico City-Monterrey Corridor-Queretaro-Irapuato
10.       On the major corridor, north from Mexico City, work has been in
progress for several years on the construction of a new regraded double
line between Huehuetoca (the site of the proposed marshaling yard) and
Queretaro. This new line, 180 km in length, is planned for completion at
the end of 1981; it will replace two existing single lines for through trains.
Existing tracks will be retained to serve as industrial sidings for the
industrial zones through which they pass. The continuation of the double line
from Queretaro to Irapuato, a distance of 107 km, is proposed in the SCT
program, for completion at the end of 1982. Again, the one existing single
line will be retained for industrial use to avoid the interference from
industrial traffic which is causing saturation of the present line's train
capacity. The complete new double-tracked route from Huehuetoca to Irapuato
will have an assessed train capacity adequate for 'over 30 years ahead.
Considering benefits from reduced operating costs and capacity increases, this
subproject has an ERR of about 16%.
(vi) Saltillo-Monterrey
11.       This subproject consists of improvement of the line north from
Mexico City, Saltillo-Monterrey, a distance of 110 km. The existing single
line capacity is decreased at either end by industrial shunting operations,
and, after an examination of alternatives, SCT proposes to construct (i) a
new double track route from Saltillo to Ramos Arizpe, about 15 km; (ii) a
partially regraded and realigned single track to Monterrey, about 90 km;



- 98 -
ANNEX 7
Page 5
and (iii) a new bypass line to the north of that city to avoid the urban
development; to give improved connections for through traffic, north and east;
and to provide access to the proposed new marshaling yard for Monterrey.
With the improvements, the track capacity provided should be adequate for
25-30 years ahead. Considering quantified benefits from operating cost
savings and line capacity increases, this subproject has an ERR of 17%.
(vii) Mexico City-Manzanillo/Lazaro Cardenas
12.       SCT has recently completed the construction of a new railway line
(200 km) from the new industrial Pacific port of Lazaro Cardenas to the
existing railway system at Calzontzin. From there to Ayuno, SCT has in
hand regrading and realignment to reduce the ruling grade for mineral and
other traffics. For the time being, these will be routed from Ayuno via
Queretaro but, for the forecast increasing traffic to and from the new indus-
trial development zone at Lazaro Cardenas, SCT proposes that an alternative
shorter route to Mexico City should be developed, by regrading and realigning
steeply graded sections of the existing line via Acambaro to Toluca and on to
Mexico City. The latter section, which would also be used for the development
of suburban traffic, would be double tracked (which would involve considerable
tunneling). The last relocation item proposed by SCT is on the northwestern
route between Guadalajara and Mazatlan, i.e., a regrade between Roseta and
Tepic, where a section of steep grade requires the use of assisting locomotives
on all freight trains. There is no capacity constraint for the reasonable
future, but the regrade will obviate the need for assisting locomotives,
reduce operating costs and decrease transit times.
13.       Feasibility studies have not been carried out on these proposed
subprojects; the works for them are scheduled by SCT for the latter part of
the investment program, 1983-1985.
B.   Marshaling Yards
14.       The problem of marshaling yard capacity is general throughout the
railway system, and plans are being prepared for new yards at Mexico City,
Guadalajara and M4onterrey. The SCT program of yard construction is of high
priority since utilization of the increased line capacity contemplated in the
SCT program will be difficult if marshaling yard capacity is not increased.
N de M uses a general methodology to examine the capacities of existing major
marshaling yards and assess the long term requirements for enlargemenL of
existing, and construction of new, marshaling yards. The methodology has been
applied to particular studies of the large marshaling yards at Mexico City
(Valle de Mexico), Monterrey and Guadalajara. Factors which are considered
were:
(a)  Present and future "normal" and "peak" average number of cars
being, or to be, handled in each subyard, reception, classification
and dispatch;
(b) The effect of traffic concentration periods through the day,
arising from train timings and from local industrial working hours;



- 99 -
ANNEX 7
Page 6
(c) The average standing times per car to cover inspection, recording,
movement and normal operating delays;
(d) The need to maintain a constant flow of cars through the whole
terminal by establishing feed rates from one yard to the other and
taking account of peak and concentration elements;
(e) The number of tracks required in the classification yard to allow
for adequate distribution of cars according to the various desti-
nations, separations and groups of cars generated or to be generated;
(f) The need for a "flat" or "hump" yard for classification and for the
latter, whether one or more "hump" classifications are going to
be needed; and
(g) The shape and area of the land required to accommodate the various
yards, including allowances for service roads, locomotive and
car service sheds, container handling, storage facilities and
administration and any other allowances considered desirable for
further expansion.
In the selection of the new yard site from possible alternatives, the factors
considered are:
(a) availability of land areas with suitable topographical features
for construction;
(b) relation to trunk routes and traffic volumes being handled on
each;
(c) increases or decreases in travel distance for traffic using the
yard;
(d) problems arising from increasing urban development and new
industrial zone developments; and
(e) social problems that could arise.
15.       The following discusses the alternative being considered for each
and its economic justification. In evaluating the economic viability of the
yards, a major benefit considered was the avoidance of traffic diversion due
to capacity constraints. In order to avoid double-counting of this benefit
where line improvements to increase capacity are also contemplated, the benefits
from traffic diversion were assumed to accrue to the yard and line in propor-
tion with the magnitude of the investment of each.
(i) Mexico City Yard at Huehuetoca
16.       For Mexico City, the N de M study showed that the assessed capacity
of the present main yard at Valle de Mexico, at about 2,000 cars per day,
was almost fully utilized under present traffic, that there was inadequate



- 100 -
ANNEX 7
Page 7
room for expansion because of surrounding development and that, for the
projected traffic for 40-50 years ahead, any new yard area should have room to
handle eventually up to 11,000 cars per day. N de M has prepared a preliminary
layout plan based on its analysis of requirements and has thus established the
approximate shape and area of land required. A site has been selected at
Huehuetoca, and the agreement of local and central Government agencies has been
obtained; acquisition of land is about to start. For the detailed design, SCT
has arranged to have the assistance of consultants, and the time schedule
envisages sufficient design being completed for a start to be made with
construction (earthworks, drainage, etc.) at the beginning of 1981, with
completion of the present, first, phase development (with a capacity of about
4,500 cars per day) at about the end of 1983. Based on operating cost savings
and from increased yard capacity (avoidance of diversion of traffic from rail
to road), N de M calculates that this subproject has an ERR of 42%. Even if
benefits from avoidance of traffic diversion are reduced by 50%, the yard
would be well justified with an ERR of 33%.
(ii) Monterrey Yard
17.       The terminal existing at Monterrey is the point of convergence
of five main railway lines which generate the need for much interline
traffic exchange, as well as the handling of traffic entering and leaving
Monterrey itself. There the local industry and railway yard are hemmed
in by urban development, while the main lines are saturated with industrial
traffic movements. The existing yard, even with some improvements, is
assessed as being adequate until 1987, after which a new yard would be
indispensable. Preliminary planning has developed a layout to give an
eventual capacity of about 7,600 cars per day (adequate for 40-50 years),
and three alternative possible sites are being considered by N de M, all
located with suitable access to the proposed new bypass line to be constructed
under the Saltillo-Monterrey line improvement. With the process of site
selection, both within N de M and with the local and central Government
agencies, and the detailed design still to be completed, it is likely that
construction of the new yard will not start until 1982 (instead of 1981, as
given at present in the SCT time schedule) with completion expected by 1985.
This subproject has, based on preliminary cost estimate, an estimated ERR of
about 23%.
(iii) Guadalajara Yard
18.       At Guadalajara, the existing N de M yard is almost fully utilized,
and, while enlargement is possible, the assessed life would be limited to about
10 years. Similarly, for the other railway system serving Guadalajara, the
Pacifico, its yard would have a limited life. N de M considers it preferable
to move to a new site (with eventual capacity of some 6,000 cars per day)
which would serve the future integrated services of N de M and the Pacifico,
leaving the existing yards to service local industry only. The present SCT
timetable envisages construction starting in mid-1982, but (i) site selection
has not yet been completed; (ii) approval of Government agencies and land
acquisition have thereafter to be dealt with; and (iii) priority in design and
construction is being given, first, to Huehuetoca, and second, to Mlonterrey



- 101 -
ANNEX 7
Page 8
yards, so that the site works at Guadalajara are not likely to start until
later, probably 1983. Assuming that the project is implemented in the years
1983-1985, the yard has an ERR of about 22%.
19.       At Coatzacoalcos, a new, limited size marshaling yard is being
constructed by SCT, adjacent to the present port area, in order to meet
freight car handling requirements for the immediate future. For the longer
term and to meet the needs of both the port and the industrial development
area being planned by the Government, another, larger marshaling yard will
have to be developed, probably sited 10-15 km inland; the eventual siting
awaits the finalization of development zoning for the Coatzacoalcos area. The
start of the construction is, therefore, not likely to be before the beginning
of 1983 instead of 1982, as given at present by SCT. A feasibility study has
not been prepared for this subproject.
C.   New Lines
20.       Four new railway lines are proposed for construct'on during the
Plan period 1981-1985, with all being started in the project period 1981-1983.
The four lines can be placed into two groups of two each (a) Guadalajara-
Encarnacion, Salinas-Laguna Secca and (b) Tampico-Veracruz, Mexico-Tampico.
The two items in the first group are to provide cut-off lines to shorten the
operating distance between Manzanillo/Guadalajara and Saltillo/Monterrey
(mainly for unit trains), and further north to USA. Detailed engineering for
both these cut-offs has been completed by SCT for some time, and construction
is planned to start in 1981. Economic feasibility studies for these new lines
were not available at the time of appraisal.
21.       The second group is the subject of a study by SCT.  This study will,
inter alia, consider the impact of the industrial port development at Tampico
(Altamira) upon rail traffic demand. Preliminary engineering has been done for
both lines, and final engineering is intended for completion by the end of
1981. Construction is at present scheduled for 1982-1985.
D.   Electrification
22.       SCT is considering the electrification of the Mexico City (Buena
Vista passenger station)-Huehuetoca-Queretaro main line, and on to Irapuato
with possible extensions in the more distant future to San Luis Potosi,
Guadalajara and Manzanillo. The Mexican Government has given high priority
to the consideration of electrification of the heaviest loaded sections of
the railway and has entrusted consultants SOFRERAIL (France) with the task of
preparing detailed proposals for 25 Kv electrification on the lines. Elec-
trification of main lines has been done in France and in India and several
other countries. The Mexico City-Queretaro route carries the heaviest traffic
on the system, about 20 million gross tons per year and about 50 trains per
day, wqhile the route on to Irapuato carries about 16 million gross tons per
year and about 20 trains per day. Based on the high traffic density on these
sections, electrification may well be justified. Although the subject of
electrification is under active study, no electrification works are yet



- 102 -
ANNEX 7
Pa-e 9
included in the SCT infrastructure program. However, as part of the consulta-
tion process (para 3.03 of SAR), SCT will be required to keep the Bank informed
of the developments in regard to electrification and to send to the Bank copies
of studies carried out on the subject.
III. Execution of SCT Works
23.       The Railway Construction Directorate of SCT has long experience
(originally with SOP) of design and construction for new railway lines and
major relocation. It carries out most of the engineering itself but, depending
upon the volume of work, makes use of local consultants for some location,
design and drawing work; it also uses specialist contractors for n3-<  survey,
soils investigations, and materials testing.  Local contractors ef__^ified
by registration with SCT and are classified according to financial, staff and
equipment capacity for small, medium or large contracts; about eight firms are
usually invited to tender for each work. Foreign contractors may bid so long
as they are registered with the Secretary of External Relations (association
with a local firm is not required), but, because of the competition available
from local firms, foreign firms never participate. Track materials such as
rails, sleepers and fastenings are provided by SCT, but stone ballast and
track laying are dealt with on contract, either by the main construction
contractor or separately, with SCT providing specialist ballast loading and
transport and track laying and ballast packing equipment. The N de 1M depart-
ment of way and works may also carry out track laying for SCT proiects.  Bids
are evaluated when received and reported upon by the Directorate tco a CoLmittee,
with the Sub-Secretary, SCT, as chairman and three Directors-General o. SCT as
members, which decides upon the contract award. Overall, the construction
procedures follow normal and reasonable practice. Once construction is
completed, the works are inspected jointly by representatives of SCT and
N de M and, subject to the latter's acceptance, are handed over for operation.
24.       In the case of the new marshaling yards, N de M prepares the limited
proposals, but, in view of recent rapid developments in technology for large
modern marshaling yards, SCT/N de M have engaged consultants to assist in the
detailed design of the first new large yard and its equipment being dealt
with, that at Fuehuetoca, near Mexico City. The procedures for the design of
the other yards of Monterrey, Guadalajara and Coatzacoalcos have yet to be
decided. The construction of the yards will be dealt with by SCT, which will
be responsible for all contracts for construction and for supply and instal-
lation of equipment (after agreement as necessary with N de M).
25.       The planning and construction departments of SCT and N de M hold
frequent meetings of representatives to coordinate the planning and execution
of their various works.
August 1980



- 103 -
ANNEX 8
Page 1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Methodology and Principal Assumptions
for the Financial Forecast (1980-1985)
The forecast is prepared in current Mexican $ and the details are as
follows:
1.   Traffic
Increases in freight traffic were taken from N de M's forecast,
revised by the mission. Since the composition of the traffic changes from
time to time, the tons and ton-km for each of the freight commodities are
calculated separately (Table 2.4 of the report). For passenger services, no
traffic increases are assumed during 1980-1985 because of the irregular demand
of the service in the last decade caused by deficiency in passenger train
operations and improvements in the bus services on the highways. The 1979
pass-km of 3,278 million were, therefore, kept constant for the period
1981-1985.
2.   Tariffs and Revenues
N de M used a major assumption in calculating the freight and
passenger revenues. It assumed that the tariff and fare increases will
increase the total revenues by five percentage points higher than the railway
cost increases. These tariffs will increase at more than 5% for some commodi-
ties and less than 5% for other commodities, depending on their variable cost.
The estimated inflation rates and tariff and fare increases are as follows:
Tariff and
Inflation         Fare Increases
1980                      23%            Rates 29% Actual
Fares 20% Actual
1981                      20%                  25%
1982                      17%                  22%
1983                      15%                   20%
1984                      13%                  18%
1985                      13%                  18%
The reason for using tariffs as five percentage points higher than
the inflation was to recuperate costs, which are much higher than the revenues;
a higher percentage tariff increase is necessary to match with cost increases.
Besides, the revenues were assumed to increase in real terms also, partly from
traffic increases and partly from tariff increases. SCT, Hacienda and SPP are
in agreement with the above figures. In revenue calculations, consideration



- 104 -
ANNEX 8
Page 2
was also given to the time lag of three to four months from N de M's request
for tariff increases to SCT's approval. Freight revenues were calculated by
multiplying the 1979 average revenue/ton-km for each commodity by the forecast
ton-km 1980 to 1985. The calculated revenues were then adjusted to the above
tariff rates.
Passenger revenues were calculated by multiplying the 1979 passenger-km
with the above estimated fares.
The revenues for express service were calculated by applying the
above tariffs to the traffic level of 1979 (about 650,000 tons) without
further increases. It is expected that the express service will be reduced
gradually.
The revenues for mail service are the same as the total cost of
operating that service. The Comptroller General of SCT decided that, from
January 1980, all Government Departments should reimburse the railway the full
cost of carrying mail.
The local haulage and demurrage revenues were calculated with the
same traffic and tariff increases as for the regular freight service.
Revenues for equipment rent and miscellaneous items are treated the
same for 1980 to 1985. The rental revenues are expected to reduce in real
terms since less equipment will be rented because of greater utilization of
N de M's own equipment.
Taxes on gross revenues were canceled by the Government as of
January 1, 1980. These taxes have been replaced by 10% value added taxes
which are applied to all sales in the country. The compensation for the
passenger train services has been calculated by taking the difference between
the estimated revenues based on forecast pass-km for each service and the
avoidable costs.
3.   Operating Expenses
(i) Staff Cost
Staff costs have been calculated based on'actual experience in 1979.
The total labor costs were analyzed into variable and fixed costs in detail,
using the variability percentage of each account. The variable costs were
then estimated for the following years, using the traffic forecast. This
forecast was increased by the rates of inflation for 1980-1985 as shown in
item 2 preceding. The fixed costs remained unchanged except for the infla-
tionary increases. The figures were then adjusted for savings to be achieved
in the following years from SCT's improvements of the track and marshaling
yards and N de M's investments. Another adjustment was also made to reflect
the needed salary increases of 1% to 2% in real terms. The productivity per
employee is expected to increase by 10% in terms of traffic units during
1980-1985.



- 105 -
ANNEX 8
Page 3
(ii) Material Cost
The same procedure as in item (i) preceding was followed. Adjust-
ments were made for parts used for maintenance purposes. The fuel and
lubricant costs were calculated at different rates of estimated price increases.
(iii) Other Costs
Other costs were estimated based on forecast traffic and cost
increases.
(iv) Depreciation
These charges are calculated on the basis of esta lished rates of
depreciation on the existing fixed assets and the forecast investments during
1980-1985. The fixed depreciable assets were revalued in 1979, and book
values and accumulated depreciation were adjusted accordingly. The next
revaluations are planned for 1982 and 1985.
August 1980



- 106 -
ANNEX' 
Page 1
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Transfer of Medical and Social Insurance and Pension
to Mexico's Social Security System
A.   General
1.        N de M has advanced considerably in its efforts to transfer the
pension and medical scheme to the Social Security System (IMSS). It
anticipates that a final agreement will be made by the end of the year,
although this may be too optimistic because of complexities involved in the
transfer to IMSS.
2.        There are 21,801 retired employees of N de M whose pensions are
paid by N de M directly. There are, additionally, about 15,000 wTho are
eligible to retire because of their length of service or age.
B.  Present System of Pension and Medical Benefits
(i) Personnel in Active Service
3.        As per collective agreement between the Union and the workei-s
in service, N de M is obliged to pay for the services of the Medical Services
Department (medicines, medical material, furniture, new medical building,
etc.), accidents and sickness due to accidents, sickpay and cost of child care
centers. The annual cost of such obligations to N de M is:
- Medical Service Department                   Mex$ 777,855,868
- Sick pay, accidents, child care
center, etc.                               Mex$ 165,087,250
Charged to expenses                          Mex$ 942,943,118
(ii) Personnel Retired
4.        Current annual estimate of pension for 21,801 retired employees
including:
(a) Mex$ 45,000,000 increase annually to the pension fund as
per contract and
(b) Mex$ 20,000,000 for three months pension to be paid to the
retiree's beneficiaries upon his death
Charged to expenses                            Mex$ 1,254,081,000
Total cost to N de M (charged to expenses)   Mex$ 2,197,024,118



- 107 -
ANNEX 9
Page 2
Presently, when a person retires, he gets the following benefits:
(a) Pension - the worker gets a pension up to a maximum of
Mex$ 5,000/month. The professionals get 70%-90% pension
depending on length of service and age;
(b) Prima de Antiguedad - all employees are entitled to it. It is paid,
based on minimum basic salary assigned in each region of the country
(e.g. for Mexico City it is 163 pesos/day) and at about 12 days per
year of service. For 30 years of service, the amount is Mex$ 58,680
(163 x 30 years x 12 days).
C.   Future System of Pension and Medical Benefits (IMSS)
(i) Personnel in Active Service
5.        Actuarial studies have been carried out, according to which N de M
will be obliged to pay premiums to cover pension, medical, indemnities, etc.
Total annual costs will be Mex$ 1,074,380,662.52. However, in order for an
employee to get the pension from IMSS, N de M must contribute 500 weekly
payments to IMSS on his behalf. The employee does not contribute anything now
or later. More than 15,000 people are ready to retire. If they retire, then
N de M will continue to pay their pensions until 500 weekly payments are
completed by N de M (equivalent of 10 years).
(ii) Personnel Retired
6.        Two options are available to N de M:
(a) continue paying pensions to employees and pay medical premium to
IMSS to take care of medical services (for retiree, wife and two
sons).
(b)  Pay a capital lump sum to IMSS to take care of all payments.
According to actuarial calculations, the lump sum is approximately
Mex$ 9,000,000,000.
N de M is trying to get some help from the Government toward this payment.
Also, N de M will transfer all medical assets, the value of which is being
determined by the "Commission of Values," and will be paid toward
Mex$ 9,000,000,000. N de M is optimistic that the Government will provide
assistance. The Controller General's Office of SCT also confirmed that the
Government intends to support the railway financially and to help transfer
the pensions and medical insurance scheme to IMSS as soon as feasible.



- 108 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3
D.   Conclusion
(i)  N de M's present annual cost                       Mex$ 2,197,024,118
(ii)  Future costs (after transfer to IMSS)              Mex$ 1,074,380,662.52
(iii)  Plus part of Mex$ 9,000 million                           N/A
(iv) Plus pensions to those who will retire soon
and whose contribution is to be computed
for 500 weekly payments                                   N/A
Total                                                     N/A
7.        The proposal for transfer to IMSS is definitely advantageous to
N de M provided its medical buildings and other related assets, combined with
the Government financial assistance, will cover the cost of items (iii) and
(iv). N de M's future cost is expected to be cut in half. The older men can
therefore retire and be replaced by younger ones.
August 1980



- 109 -
ANNEX 10
MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Details of Investment Plan
2.   Track Renovation Program
3.   Project Analysis of Costs, Benefits and Economic Returns
4.   Financial Forecast for N de M and for Other Railways
5.   Financing Plan and the Terms and Conditions of Local and Foreign Loans
6.   Passenger Deficits and Various Cost Figures
7.   Training Institute of N de M and its Programs
8.   N de M Manpower Plan 1976-1982
9.   Economic Analysis of SCT Investments
November 1980



MEXICO
FOURTH RAILWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION DIAGRAM-N DE M
BOARD
DEPUTrY GENERAL 
I                                                ~              ~~~~~~~~~~~MANAGER 
SIGNALS         LOCOS AND           TRACK                                                               PURCHASES
FINANCE         PLANNING        CONTROLLER                              ANSECRETARY  A  ROLLING            AND           OPERATIONS          TRAFFIC       AMNTTI                                  SYSTEMS
TELECOOM           STOCK          STRUCTURES                                                               STORE S _j__
ACCOUNTING      ORGANIZATION        INTERNAL                            PROJECTS        LOCOMOTIVES     WAY AND WORKS  [TRANSPORTATION         PREIGET          PERSONNEL         PURCHASE            DATA             SAF TY
AND METRODS         AUDIT
BUDGET           PROJECTS         CONTROL                              SIGNAL           WAGONS         CONSTRUCTION                         PASSENGER          MEDICAL           STORES          IN4FORMATION       TRAINING
TLcoGM-        COACHES           PRJCSEPRESS                                           LEGAL                                                 PUBLIC
TREASURY        PROGRAMMING      INVENTORIES                          MUNICATION                                                                                                                                     RECSPROJECTS  EX  RELA
L----------------i~~~-------  iI                                                                                                                                                        .. 
COSTS                                  P ICES                               LCL      | ;< =:i                                                |   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SERVICF.S 
TRAIIN          SSOCIlA
MACHINERY                            AUDST            SERVIIS
IJComisin In-e,na de AdministrOci6n V P,ogra,PciGn                                                                                                                                                                                     |
Sour.e N d M
Da- MWv, 1980                                                                                                                                                                                                              Bmlk 71  i



---------------- T'-                                       IB~~~~~~~~RD   3455R1
.---.------r'' ~ ~ ~--Wo-
~~  -  k.. 01. SAk.~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.                                  U.             S.           A.~~~~~~A
E.NN'N08A A                                                             /HE
'IRMOSILLO        ("N          >      /         00- 00.00~~~~cl -..                                                                           X/-C
NA  AJAF S4                                                                              __11yI                                                                                                                      I
CAL/PORN/A CAurNRNN
MAIN ROADAILOAD
LIACAN  C  -.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
1/~~~~~7
Al                                                                            PENW."'A~~~~~~C ~   0 30  CO  0
254045-SOJA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i CAJERf)0
@2   01404224 o, 0.0000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~






[BRD-11844R
Ii4~~~~~~~~~~  5000                                   T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~                                    RR'~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        .                                ELY 1R5Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jLy1,
IS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SWR
UNITED   STATES                                                  F,  AMRA
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
300~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U:
-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
N ATIO7NAL RAILROADS 50
RAIL FREIGHT TRFIC  LW17 
CARIR  OR TA    10  RLIO EROR TOAO PERC YEAR0. MIION:ROS  ON  rPNP
CARRIES MPRR THAN .0 TO TE MIL LION 000S0 IONS PR YEAR 200 KM
CARRtIES MORE TIARS 0.0 TO 1. MIli ON 0GR0SSTONS PERl YEAR 1300KM 
CARRIES LOSSe THAN R.R  OZ MiCLION CIORTOSS TOSPER    Y EAI 0200M  KM
cAnRt  MoR THA o.5 ro 10 MILION  ROSSTONSPGUATEMRALA K
AS  THA  0.6 MIL I N OnOS TON00                                                                                  ly KR   5  5YAIR005SyR,0SRo,I,oS A           ly00yV  
MIElopy. 20E0oSE,5yo0  ryy050yy05006(HO Ol& $
ML~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~P,RCO 505  Ro(59,EI.000,0~0ASS650,t
4' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~-0S100ISOOO00I,,pI,r0    VyyA0,0 



