Document of
FILE C              fPY               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-1l85a-BI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE NATIONAL HOUSING BANK (BNH) WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SECOND MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
June 23, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its cmntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of June 8, 1976)
Currency Unit = Cruzeiro (CR$)
US$1          = Cr$10.65
Cr$1          = US$0.094
Cr$1,000      = US$94.00
Cr$1,000,000  = US$94,000
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH       = Banco Nacional da Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
FAE       = Fundos de Agua e Esgotos (Revolving Funds for Sanitation)
PLANASA   = Plano Nacional de Saneamento (National Sanitation Plan)
COPASA    = Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A. (Sanitation Company
of Minas Gerais)



For OMCIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE
PRESIDENT TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON
A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE NATIONAL HOUSING BANK (BNH)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SECOND MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
I.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Brazilian National Housing Bank (BNH) with the guarantee of the
Federative Repubic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$40.0 million to help
finance a water supply and sewerage project in the state of Minas Gerais. The
loan would have a term of 20 years, including three years of grace, with
interest at 8.85% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would be relent to the
state water company of Minas Gerais, COPASA-MG (formerly COMAG) at a rate of
interest of 4% (plus various fees amounting to about 2%) with principal
subject to full monetary correction for changes in the general price index.
Relending would be for 18-1/2 to 21 years including periods of grace of 6 to
36 months, depending on the construction period of the individual COPASA
subprojects to be financed.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (812--ER), dated
July 7, 1975, was distributed to the Executive Directors on July 21, 1975.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        During 1967-74 the combination of excellent domestic economic manage-
ment and a buoyant world economic environment produced a period of high and
sustained income growth, strong balance of payments performance and gradually
decelerating inflation. Brazil's average annual rate of growth of about 10%
over this period resulted in a 60% increase in per capita income, a 130% in-
crease in manufacturing output and a 380% increase in the US dollar value of
exports. However, international economic events in 1974 and 1975 have forced
at least a temporary slowdown in the pace of economic growth. With the sharp
deterioration of the cotntry's terms of trade and the disruption of the world
capital market, the balaLnce of payments is proving to be a severe constraint
on Brazil's growth. As a result, the pace of growth has dropped sharply, into
the 4-5% range during 1975-76.
4.        The fourfold increase in the price of crude oil (adding some US$2
billion to the import bill), the steep rise in the price of most imported raw
materials, as well as tEhe hardening of terms of external financial credits,
made management of the external sector difficult in 1974-75. These factors
1/   In its near totality, this section is reprinted from the President's
Report on the COPEL Power Distribution project for Brazil (No. P-1774-BR),
dated April 28, 1976.
This document has a restriczted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
caught Brazil at the time when its economy was overheated and growth of import
demand was very high, because after a prolonged period of rapid growth some
key industrial sectors were approaching capacity levels of output. The
current account deficit, which averaged just US$1 billion in 1969-73, or 2%
of GDP, widened to about US$7 billion or 7% of GDP in 1974, reflecting the
sizeable differential between import growth (about 100%) and export growth
(roughly 30%) and the increasing level of interest payments on debt. The bulk
of the deficit was financed by a large increase in the inflow of external
financial credits of considerably shorter maturity than was generally avail-
able during 1971-73.
5.        The Government attempted to narrow the balance-of-payments current
account deficit in 1975. It was successful in keeping imports somewhat below
the level in 1974 in nominal terms by maintaining a balanced budget, continu-
ing the crawling peg exchange rate policy and by introducing direct import
controls. This implied a substantial reduction in the real level of imports
and was accompanied by a decline in the rate of GDP growth to 4%. Export
growth of about 9% was somewhat disappointing, largely due to the frost in
Southern Brazil in July 1975, which adversely affected production of some key
crops, including coffee and sugar, and a slowdown in manufactured export growth
as a consequence of the recession in the consuming countries. Nevertheless,
because of import restraint the trade deficit declined from US$4.7 billion in
1974 to US$3.5 billion in 1975. However, improvement in the trade account was
virtually offset by a large increase in interest payments reflecting the growth
of the external debt and higher Eurodollar interest rates.
6.        The Government monitored the balance-of-payments situation very
closely and in the second half of 1975 adopted several new measures designed
to produce a further contraction of imports in 1976. The new measures estab-
lished advance import deposit requirements on approximately 40% of merchandise
imports, further increased import duties, increased gasoline prices by 25% and
continued restriction of public sector imports. In addition, as a longer term
measure, the Government has given the state petroleum monopoly, PETROBRAS,
permission to undertake service contracts with foreign oil companies. It is
clear, however, that despite these measures 1976 will be another difficult year
for balance-of-payments management as prospects are for a relatively small
gain in exports and, as a result, economic growth can again be expected to be
in the 4% range.
7.        Adverse developments during 1974-75 reflect the fact that in recent
years, Brazil has become more closely integrated into the world economy and
its growth has become more dependent upon and vulnerable to changes in the
world economic situation. The slowdown in the rate of growth of the world
economy has, with some lag, had an adverse impact on prices of Brazil's
primary exports and on the rate of growth of its exports of manufactures, and,
through the balance of payments, on the overall growth of the economy. It now
appears that world economic conditions will not permit Brazil to grow during
1975-80 at the 10% pace attained in the preceding years. However, despite the
reduced pace of growth in 1975-76 a growth path averaging 6% per annum is still



- 3 -
feasible for 1975-80 as: a whole. It is estimated that to attain such a growth
path, the average annual net inflow of medium- and long-term capital (that is,
capital other than direct investments and financial credits) required for the
1975-80 period will be substantial, about US$1.8 billion, or three times the
average for the 1970-74 period.
8.        At the end of 1975, Brazil's public external debt reached about
US$11 billion. The public debt service ratio for 1975 is estimated at 16.7%
which is in line with that of other countries at a similar stage of develop-
ment. Brazil's total (public and private) external debt reached about US$22
billion at the end of 1975, of which about two-thirds, or US$15 billion was in
the form of financial credits. The debt service ratio during 1975 on this to-
tal external debt was about 38%, or about the same as the average for 1969-73.
However, it should be noted that net foreign exchange reserves at the end of
1975 were still large, about US$4.6 billion, equivalent to some four months of
the 1975 imports of goods and non-factor services. While the total debt ser-
vice ratio can be expected to rise somewhat in 1976, if an export growth rate
of around 17% per year in dollar terms (compared to 30% in 1970-74) can be
maintained over the 1975-80 period and if average maturities of new financial
credits gradually improve from six to eight years, the debt service ratio in
1980 can be expected to return to the level prevailing in the 1969-73 period.
Despite Brazil's heavy debt service burden, the large foreign exchange reserves
accumulated over the past several years ensure that the country will have the
liquidity to meet its debt service obligations in the short term, while the
country's record of high caliber financial management provides grounds for
confidence in the maintenance of creditworthiness over the longer run.
9.        Despite its recent growth and vast potential, Brazil is still a
country with a very unequal distribution of income and extensive absolute
poverty. The present Government acknowledges the gravity of the country's
income distribution problem and accepts the responsiblity for its alleviation.
While like the previous Government it believes that a high rate of growth is
necessary to increase the income of the poor, it does not believe that the
"trickle down" effects of rapid growth are enough and is shaping El new posi-
tive policy which could be labeled as "redistribution along with growth". To
this end, in addition to pursuing some of the social programs init:iated by
its predecessor, the Government is also working on new measures for improving
income distribution. These can be classified into three broad areas: (a)
regional development; (b) provision of social services; and (c) wage policy.
In addition, recent tax changes have tended to have a favorable, although
marginal, impact on income distribution.
10.       As one of its measures to help promote development in poorer regions,
the Government has formulated a program known as POLONORDESTE for rural devel-
opment in the Northeast. The program envisages investment expenditures of
about US$2.5 billion during 1975-79 and is designed to raise the productivity
and incomes of small farmers through, inter alia, formulation and execution of
integrated rural development projects, which are likely in some cases to include
changes in land tenure. POLONORDESTE is based on the assumption that the rural



- 4 -
Northeast cannot be regarded as a homogeneous whole and, therefore, standard-
ized programs are inadequate. The Government identified 28 sub-regions cover-
ing large portions of the Northeast on which POLONORDESTE funds would be used
initially. The recently approved Rio Grande do Norte project is one of the
first under POLONORDESTE, and the Government intends to present additional
similar projects for Bank consideration in the future. Active consideration
is being given to a major modification in the state value added tax system
to redistribute fiscal resources from the richer to the poorer states, in
order to give the latter the fiscal resources which they badly need to accel-
erate social programs, particularly in education. In the area of social
services, the Government has created a new Ministry of Social Security in
order to consolidate its social benefit programs and to extend these programs
to a larger share of the population. In 1975 it allowed, under the Social
Integration Program (PIS, a social security fund), the lowest paid workers
covered by PIS, with incomes previously between about US$60 and US$300 monthly,
to withdraw up to one month's minimum wage (about US$60) from their PIS
accounts. The Government is also strengthening the nutrition program which,
under the previous Government, got off to a slow start. Greater emphasis is
being given by BNH (the National Housing Bank) to low-income housing, whose
beneficiaries will enjoy better financial terms than in the past. BNH is also
developing a site and services program to reach parts of the population even
lower down the income scale. In agriculture, the recently reorganized rural
extension agency (EMBRATER) will expand and strengthen its activities directed
specifically toward the small-scale farmer; and the new federal agriculture
research institution (EMBRAPA) has defined its program to include a selection
of crops and farming-systems which will ensure that small-scale farms benefit
from research efforts. Overall, the Government's recently approved public
investment program for 1975-77 gives high priority to education, health,
agriculture and regional development, which account for about 30% of total
public investment. Finally, the Government intends to pursue a more liberal
wages policy to maintain the real value of the minimum wage and improve per-
sonal income distribution. It has revised the formula governing the adjust-
ment of the union wage scale and has granted increases in the real minimum
wage of 6.5% in 1975 and 6% so far in 1976.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
Bank Operations
11.       By May 31, 1976, the Bank had approved 62 loans for Brazil, amount-
ing to US$2,705.0 million, of which 37 had not been fully disbursed. During
FY65-69, disbursements averaged only US$10 million per year, increasing to an
average of US$136 milion per year during FY70-74, reaching US$225 million in
FY74, US$248 million in FY75, and US$162.9 million in the first three quarters
of FY76. Disbursements should increase further during the next few years.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of May 31, 1976, and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
12.       Bank lending to Brazil was very active in FY72, when seven loans
were approved totalling US$437 million, including three loans totalling



- 5 -
US$192 million for the Stage II expansion of the steel industry. In FY73,
six loans amounting to US$187.7 million; in FY74 three loans totalling
US$242 million and in FY75, five loans totalling US$426.5 million were ap-
proved. As of May 31, eight loans totalling US$429 million had been approved
in FY76: US$60 million for the COSIPA Stage III steel expansion program;
US$75 million for the FEFASA railway rehabilitation and expansion program;
US$12 million for the Ric Grande do Norte rural development project:; US$85
million for a development banking project for small- and medium-sized indus-
tries; US$55 million for a secondary and feeder roads project; US$40 million
for an agricultural research project; US$52 million for an electric power
distribution project in the state of Parana; and US$50 million for an ammonia/
urea fertilizer project. A US$19 million loan for a nutrition project and a
US$50 million loan for a power distribution project in the Northeast are
being considered by the Executive Directors in the second half of June. We
are working actively with the Brazilians on the preparation of two additional
fertilizer projects, a power transmission project in the South, a project in
support of the establishment of a non-flat steel enterprise, a second line of
credit for agro-industries, and several rural development projects, including
one in the state of Minas Gerais.
13.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1975, amounting to US$11 billion, the Bank held about 10%. The Bank's
share of the service on this debt was about 4.5%. If present trends continue
as expected, the Bank's share in total external public debt outstanding would
increase to 12% by 1980. The Bank's share of public debt service would rise
to about 6% while its share of Brazil's total (public and private) external
debt service would remain at the present level of 2.7%.
IFC Operations
14.       IFC has committed more financial resources to Brazil than to any
other country. As of May 31, 1976, IFC had made 27 commitments to Brazil,
totalling US$262.9 million, of which US$32.6 million has been cancelled,
US$20.4 million repaid and US$126.9 million sold. Of the balance of US$83.0
million, US$60.6 million represents loans and US$22.4 million equity. A
summary of IFC's investments up to May 31, 1976 is given in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
15.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has been supporting several
important development objectives which are interdependent and complementary.
One objective is to support the effort of the Government to identify and
develop projects designed to increase productivity and incomes of the lowest
income segments of the population, to broaden the economic opportunities
open to those groups, and to alleviate poverty. The proposed Second Minas
Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage project is designed to expand elementary
water and sanitation services to still unserved areas in major cities as well
as to numerous small, previously neglected communities in the state. It
features project selection criteria in the context of a progressive tariff
structure that would help to extend the services to a large number of low-
income persons through cross subsidization. The recently approved develop-
ment banking project is expected to help generate employment opportunities



-6-
in urban areas; and, for rural areXas, the Rio Grande do Norte and Lower Sao
Francisco rtural development projects were also designed to assist low-income
groups. Goveriunent authlorities, with the collaboration of Bank staff, are
developing additional integrated rural development projects to increase the
productivity of the small farmer in the Northeast, and we expect to present
in the future an increasing number of projects of this type.    The recently
approved nutrition project will further assist low-income groups, as would
site and services and rural education projects which are in preparation.
16.       A second Bank lending objective in Brazil is to support institu-
tional development and policy reform, designed inter alia to help maximize
public savings and ensure that they are used economically. The proposed water
supply and sewerage project fits in the National Sanitation Plan, PLANASA.
One of the objectives of PLANASA is to ensure the rational selection of water
supply and sewerage investments, and sound engineering and financial manage-
ment of the state water supply and sewerage companies. The recently approved
development banking project also has as a primary objective institutional
development and policy reform. Bank lending in the electric power sector
supports rational investment planning and tariff systems. The institution-
building objective has also been important in Bank assistance to the trans-
portation sector where emphasis has been given to the rational selection of
investments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of
financial performance.
17.       A third Bank lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange con-
straint on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the
increase in petroleum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase
Brazil's export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic pro-
duction for imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of
trade and balance of payments in the past two years, this objective has been
placed in the fore front of the Government's economic policy. Most of the
Bank-supported investments in the transport sector -- railways, ports and
liglhways -- are designed to facilitate the smooth and economical flow of
exports. Also, support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil due to the country's ample supply of high grade iron
ore and the scale of its internal markets. The balance of payments would
also be aide(d by support of the fertilizer projects.
18.       A final objective which applies to alL Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue for some years to need in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. In some sectors, especially in electric power and steel, the
Bank's participation has helped Brazil obtain additional bilateral supplier
and financial credits in greater amounts and on more favorable terms.



- 7 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SECTOR
19.       Over the past: two decades the percentage of Brazil's total popula-
tion living in urban areas increased from an estimated 36% to 56%. So far,
however, few of the low-income migrants to urban areas have been given ade-
quate water supplies or are served by sewerage systems. It was estimated in
1970 that less than 60%' of the urban population was provided with public water
services and less than 30% with public sewerage services. It is no coinci-
dence that Brazil's population suffers a high incidence of water-borne diseases,
and that the death rate among children under five years of age, due to gastro-
enteric infections, was in 1970 nearly 100 times that of the United States.
20.       The inadequacy of water and sewerage systems has been due primarily
to institutional problems and to past methods of financing. Responsibility
for water and sewerage in Brazil has historically been entrusted to munici-
palities, the level of government which has been the weakest in technical,
organizational and fincncial capability. Since the municipalities were unable
to organize adequate water and sewerage services, the federal and state govern-
ments assumed the responsibility for building and financing new systems,
generally with budget grants. Chronic shortages of budgetary resources, how-
ever, made this method of financing inadequate as well. During the decade
before 1970 the total amount invested in urban and rural sanitation by numerous
federal agencies and state and local governments was roughly US$700 million.
Services have lagged in cities of all sizes:    the very large cities such as
Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, rapidly growing secondary centers like Belo
Horizonte in Minas Gerais, and poor and small urban communities.
21.       In 1971, the Government embarked on a bold new program, PLANASA,
with the objective of rapidly increasing the availability of water and sewer-
age services to its urban population. 1/ The goal was to serve 80% of the
urban population with adequate water by 1980 and 50% with satisfactory sewer-
age services by the same date, through a viable and self-perpetuating financ-
ing mechanism. Investments of US$2.5 billion were projected in the sector by
the end of the decade. The program operates under the aegis of the financially
strong and highly respected federally owned and controlled National Housing
Bank (BNH). The massive. PLANASA program is financed half by BNH and half by
the states, through individual State Revolving Funds for Sanitation (FAE's).
Along with interest on and repayment of former loans, BNH's principal finan-
cial resources are the deposits of retirement funds. The FAE funds are
obtained from allocations of up to 5% of the states' annual revenues. In
poorer states, where 5% of the fiscal income is not sufficient to meet the
state's 50% financing commitment, BNH extends supplementary loans to the
states.
22.       The PLANASA program focuses on statewide, rather than individual
city water and sewerage needs. In order to enter the program, states must
1/   According to Brazilian law, an urban center is defined as a community
comprising more than 200 dwellings.



- 8 -
sign agreements with BNH which establish single statewide water and sewerage
companies, draw up statewide investment plans and generally provide for state
guarantees of BNH loans (Minas Gerais is an exception and the Banco de Desen-
volvimento de Minas Gerais guarantees BNH loans for a fee). All of Brazil's
twenty-two states have formally signed such agreements and entered the pro-
gram. The statewide system of project preparation and financing has two
novel features that help achieve a more equitable distribution of income:
(a) Varying interest rates. BNH funds were initially loaned to
states at interest rates varying from 4% to the poorest states
in the Northeast to 8% to the relatively more prosperous states
of the South and Center of Brazil. Principal of loans is
corrected for changes in the general price index; and
(b) Statewide or regional tariffs. The PLANASA program requires
the establishment of statewide or regional tariff structures.
Such a policy permits the generation of cash in wealthier
cities, which may then be made available to finance project's
in poorer and smaller communities.
23.       A further major advantage of the PLANASA system is that by placing
in state water supply companies responsibility for all sanitation projects
within each state, PLANASA makes possible the centralization of management,
programming, procurement, construction, operations and finance, thus increas-
ing the efficient use of resources and maximizing the use of scarce trained
manpower. A National Sanitation Training Program organizes the massive effort
required to man the sector appropriately. Its very ambitious target is to
train 60,000 people over a five-year period ending in 1978. The PLANASA
system also enables national design and engineering standards to be developed
under the sponsorship of a potentially strong and professionally competent
organization within BNH.
24.       Up to 1975, PLANASA's progress was disappointingly slow and it had
developed some serious problems. Investment plans, of uneven quality and
slow to materialize, proved to be much costlier than originally envisaged.
The state water companies experienced difficulties in obtaining concessions
for water distribution systems and in maintaining adequate tariffs. Many
companies were having organizational problems as well, and some only main-
tained an adequate financial position by financing a proportion of their
works with state grants. The National Sanitation Training Program was one
year behind schedule and it appeared that PLANASA's original targets would
not be met. This led to a realistic readjustment of PLANASA along the
following lines:
(a) The PLANASA national targets were modified. The present
objective is to service 80% of the population in 80% of
the communities with water and to provide the population
of the main urban centers with sewerage by 1980.
(b) A technical assistance program to the state water companies
was launched with the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO)
as management consultant.



- 9 -
(c) Investment needs were re-estimated at US$4 billion, a 60%
increase over the initial projection.
(d)  BNH's real lending rates (i.e., after monetary correction)
were lowered to a range of 2% to 7%.
(e) Consultants were hired to prepare a National Tariff Law for
the sector, treating various aspects of tariff problems and
the ownership of municipal water resources.
(f) Where the tariffs necessary to sustain the very high financial
standards prove excessive for the population's ability to pay,
limited grant financing is envisaged.
25.       The Government's major goals for the sector are to establish a viable
national financing scheme which will serve the water and sanitation needs of
the majority of the urban population by the end of the decade, within the
frame-work of a mechanism that will equally serve rich and poor states, com-
munities and individuals, with the incidence of the financial burden falling
more heavily on the rich than the poor. In spite of its problems, PLANASA
has made useful progress towards achieving its goals. The recent revisions
in the program should enable it to meet its objectives readily.
26.       The proposed second Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage project
would be the fourth assisted by the Bank in the water supply and sewerage
sector in Brazil. The first two loans, for US$22 million and US$12 million,
were made in 1971 to help develop the water supply, sewerage and pollution
control facilities for metropolitan Sao Paulo. There have been substantial
delays in disbursing these loans, caused by major changes in the organization
of the sector in Sao Paulo, but the new state water supply and sewerage
company, SABESP, has much improved management, and disbursement of the balance
of the Bank's loans should now proceed smoothly. The third loan, Loan 1009-BR
of US$36 million, was for the first Minas Gerais water supply and sewerage
project. Due to project preparation problems that are now resolved, disburse-
ments have been substantially behind schedule. However, the loan is now fully
committed to 38 subprojects and the way has been cleared for their rapid im-
plementation.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
27.       The second Project to assist the ongoing PLANASA water supply and
sewerage program in the state of Minas Gerais was appraised by a Bank mission
which visited Brazil in October 1975. A report, entitled "Appraisal of the
Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project II, No. 1042, dated June 22,
1976, is being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A loan and
project summary is presented in Annex III. Negotiations took place in Rio de
Janeiro from May 3 to 7, 1976. The Borrower, BNH, was represented by a team
headed by Mr. Fabio Alvares.



- 10 -
Project Description
28.       The project is the extension of the program of construction of
new water supply and sewerage systems by the state water supply and sewerage
company of Minas Gerais (COPASA), and of extensions and improvements to
existing systems in various cities and towns of Minas Gerais. It consists of
design and construction of water supply and sewerage facilities, including
surface intakes, wells, treatment plants, pumping stations, transmission
lines, distribution networks and metered house connections; the development
of norms, policies and educational programs for the implementation of sani-
tation systems in small communities; and a study of sewerage charges in Minas
Gerais. As in the first loan, to qualify for financing, subprojects would have
to meet certain agreed criteria which would be modified somewhat in the
proposed second phase (see paragraphs 35 and 36 below).
29.       The 38 subprojects to which Loan 1009-BR has been allocated consist
of water supply and sewerage systems serving cities of all sizes. Elements
of a large ongoing program both of water supply and of sewerage works in the
metropolitan area of the state capital, Belo Horizonte (1.6 million inhabit-
ants), are included in these and are expected to account for approximately 45%
of the disbursements of Loan 1009-BR, and separate elements of a later phase
of the same program for 56% of disbursements under the proposed new loan. The
first loan is expected to be fully disbursed by mid-1978.
30.       The proposed second loan would finance 30% (compared to 40% under
the first loan) of the cost of a new package of subprojects expected to number
about 108. Some of these have already been determined to be eligible, and
are ready to start but the majority are still under preparation. The Govern-
ment, BNH and COPASA have requested Bank approval of the second loan at this
time in order to enable COPASA to engage in a continuous process of project
planning and preparation, and permit continuity in the Bank's collaboration
with BNH on its overall planning effort. The second loan is expected to be
fully disbursed by mid-1980.
31.       Subprojects expected to be financed under the proposed second loan
include the following:
(i)  about 1 water supply and 6 sewerage subprojects consisting
of elements of the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area program,
complementary to but distinct from those financed under
Loan 1009-BR;
(ii)  a pilot program to supply water to about 63 small com-
munities of up to 5,000 inhabitants. The program will
develop design parameters for water production and
distribution, and will also provide for educational
campaigns to inform the communities about sanitation
services; and
(iii)  about 38 water supply subprojects in cities of up to 150,000
inhabitants.



- 11 -
32.       The project is expected to provide water to an additional 500,000
consumers. 400,000 people would benefit from additional sewerage collec-
tion systems.
Project Costs and Finarcing
33.       The cost of t:he project is expected to amount to US$134 million
equivalent and would be jointly financed by the Bank (30%), BNH (20%) and
the state of Minas Gerais' Revolving Fund for Sanitation, FAE (50%). In some
cases, the state or municipality may participate in financing a subproject
with small grants. The US$40 million proposed Bank loan would be less than
the estimated foreign exchange content of the proposed project, which is
estimated to be about one-third of total costs, or US$44.8 million. Although
orders for most of the equipment and materials required for the project are
likely to be won by Brazilian suppliers, the raw materials entering into the
manufacture of these goods -- steel, non-ferrous metals, asbestos, plastics
and plastic-making materials, as well as petroleum -- are all imported into
Brazil. The project costs are divided as follows:
(US$ Millions)
Construction Costs
Water SuppLy Subprojects                 70.1
Sewerage Subprojects                     27.4
Engineering and Administration (10%)        9.8
Subtotal                        107.3
Physical Contingencies (10%)               10.7
Price Contingencies                        16.0
Total                           134.0
Subproject Preparation
34.       Prior to undertaking an investment in a given municipality, COPASA
must sign with the latter a concession agreement authorizing it to initiate,
own and operate water supply and sewerage systems within the boundaries of
that municipality. In the first stage of project preparation and with the
help of consultants, COPASA develops for each individual subproject a pre-
feasibility study that identifies the least cost solution and produces pre-
liminary financial, physical and technical data on the proposed system.
BNH, through its technical agent in the state, and Bank staff review the
documents before final preparation of the selected technical alternative
proceeds. The second stage is that of the feasibility study, where the final
eligibility of the subproject is determined. During the administration of
Loan 1009-BR, COPASA has made great progress in project preparation.



- 12 -
Selection Criteria
35.       Each subproject would have to meet the following criteria:
(i) it would have to represent the least-cost solution for
providing the service in question to a given population
group; and
(ii) in no single year should the subproject cause COPASA to
fail to achieve its financial commitments (see para 40);
and for water supply subprojects:
(iiia)  in cities of more than 20,000 inhabitants, the cumulative
cash flow of the system in which the subproject is located
would have to be positive for the first five-year period
counted either from the first amortization payment on BNH's
subloan, or from three years after the start of construction,
whichever is earlier. As noted in paragraph 1, the grace
period on BNH's subloans is equal to the construction period
of the subproject;
(iiib)  in cities of less than 20,000 but more than 3,000 inhabitants,
the cost per cubic meter of water produced would have to be
not more than 40% above the comparable average in the state; or
(iiic)  in communities of less than 3,000 inhabitants, subprojects
would have to be designed according to national standards
satisfactory to the Bank which are now being developed by
BNH.
In addition, in cities with over 3,000 inhabitants, the incremental financial
rate of return (IFROR) will be calculated for each water supply subproject or,
if the subproject forms part of a system, for such system. Any subproject with
an IFROR lower than the cost of funds to COPASA -- about 6% -- will be further
reviewed, especially to determine whether it is practicable to redesign the
subproject so as to lower its cost to the extent necessary to meet this test.
The subproject would not be included in the project if, after such redesign,
the system of which the subproject would form part still does not meet
criteria (i), (ii), and (iii) above (see Schedule 4 of the draft Loan Agree-
ment).
36.       In Loan 1009-BR, the criteria were slightly different; subprojects
with an IFROR between 0 and 10% could be accepted for financing, subject to a
special justification based on an evaluation of health, social and environ-
mental benefits; subprojects with an IFROR above 10% were automatically accep-
ted; subprojects presenting a negative IFROR were not accepted for financing.
In the light of the experience gained with the first project, these criteria
have been modified and the emphasis has been laid instead principally on the
overall financial viability of COPASA. More specifically, a cash flow crite-
rion ((iiia) in the preceding paragraph) would be added which would virtually
assure that a sub-project meeting the criterion would also have an attractive
IFROR. For smaller subprojects, namely those located in cities of less than
20,000 but more than 3,000 inhabitants and which would have only a marginal



- 13 -
impact on COPASA's cash flow the unit cost criterion ((iiib) in the preceding
paragraph) is such that non-quantifiable benefits would probably result in
positive economic rates of return. Also, COPASA would continue, as under the
first loan, to maintainl an adequate overall cash flow position (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.06).
Supervision of Subproject Preparation and Implementation
37.       Before Loan 1009-BR, Bank financing of water and sewerage projects
had been directed to individual projects previously appraised by Bank staff.
However, this is not compatible with the growing Bank role in the sector and
the number, size and geographical dispersion of subprojects. Thus, under the
first loan for Minas Gerais the Bank modified its traditional role in the
sector and concentrated on fostering COPASA's and BNH's capability to prepare
and evaluate projects. However, organization and project preparation problems
in COPASA absorbed considerable Bank supervision in the first stage and ob-
liged Bank staff to review all subprojects, while at the same time helping
BNH to reinforce its management of PLANASA. COPASA has, however, taken some
significant steps to improve its operations and, in addition, BNH has rein-
forced its local representation in Minas Gerais, as well as other states. It
should therefore be possible from now on to review subprojects on a selective
basis. Practically, review by Bank staff would be limited to large subproj-
ects, to sewerage subprojects, and to smaller projects identified as requiring
special attention, although all documents would be held available for super-
vision.
Lending and Relending Terms
38.       The Bank's loan would represent 60% of BNH's subloans for sub-
projects. BNH would lend the funds to the Banco de Credito Real de Minas
Gerais, the financial agent for PLANASA in Minas Gerais, and the Banco de
Credito Real would relend the funds (together with funds in equal amounts
borrowed from the state FAE at 4%) to COPASA. BNH's subloans, which would
include the proceeds oif the Bank's loan, would be at 4% with full monetary
correction, and would have an amortization period of 18 years after a period
of grace varying from 6 to 36 months depending on the construction period of
the subproject. The subloans from Banco de Credito Real to COPASA would have
the same terms as the loans from BNH to Banco de Credito Real. In addition,
various fees and levies equivalent to about 2% would be charged to COPASA,
consisting of (i) a 1% supplementary interest charge collected by Banco de
Credito Real as the financial agent, (ii) another 1% supplementary interest
charge on BNH's subloan collected by the Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas
Gerais to guarantee repayment of BNH's subloans, and (iii) adminLstration and
technical levies discounted from the amount to be disbursed to COPASA.
39.       Because of monetary correction, recovery by BNH should be more than
sufficient to service t:he Bank loan, assuming a continuation of present
economic trends and exchange rate policies. The Government has agreed with
BNH to compensate it in the unlikely event it receives from Banco de Credito
Real in interest, principal and monetary correction payments less than it
needs to purchase the ioreign currencies to service the Bank's loan.



- 14 -
Tariffs
40.       COPASA will charge tariffs sufficient to comply with the cash flow
covenant. This covenant, the same as in Loan 1009-BR, provides that COPASA's
revenues be sufficient to cover operating expenses (excluding depreciation),
debt service, increases in working capital other than cash, net miscella-
neous cash outflows, and all dividends and other distribution of surplus, in
addition to a reserve of 1% of the value of gross assets (draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 4.06). This will require COPASA to obtain tariff increases
roughly matching inflation, since debt service is subject to monetary correc-
tion. In 1975, COPASA's tariff was increased by 28% on the first of January
and by a further 20% on October first, thus outpacing inflation. In March of
this year, COPASA adopted a new tariff structure representing an average
increase of about 22%.
41.       COPASA has hid a somewhat progressive water ta5iff structure, where3
consumption above 30 m  was priced slightly higher per m   than the first 30 m
The company agreed at the time of the first loan to implement a more progres-
sive water tariff structure with more steps and greater differences between
the rates, thus making the tariff an instrument for income redistribution.
This change was adopted in early 1976, as noted above. In addition to the
action already taken with respect to water tariffs, COPASA has agreed to under-
take a study, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, with a view
to implementing the recommendations which emerge, to determine socially and
economically acceptable sewerage tariffs (draft Loan Agreement, Section 4.07).
Procurement and Disbursement
42.       COPASA would follow the Bank's guidelines for procurement of all
goods and services for the project. All goods and civil works contracts
would be procured after international competitive bidding with Brazilian
suppliers of equipment and materials receiving a margin of preference of 15%,
or the applicable import duty, whichever is less. Due to the large number of
contracts expected, Bank staff would limit their prior review to contracts
over US$4 million. For contracts reviewed ex post facto, if it were deter-
mined that the bidding and awards had not been conducted in accordance with
the agreed procedures, the Bank would either deduct from a future withdrawal
from the Loan Account an amount corresponding to any disbursement previously
made for a contract which turned out to be ineligible, or would cancel an
equivalent amount of the Loan. Since virtually all the equipment and mate-
rials for the project are manufactured in Brazil and available at competitive
prices, most supply contracts are expected to be won by local suppliers. The
civil works contracts are small to medium sized and are also expected to be
won by local contractors.
43.       Bank disbursements would consist of the reimbursement of 60% of
all BNH disbursements on its subloans for eligible subprojects (or 30% of the
subprojects' total cost), in accordance with certificates to be submitted by
BNH to the Bank. The documentation in support of such certificates would
be available for inspection during the course of project supervision



- 15 -
missions.  Some of the BNH subloans would be financing expenditures on engi-
neering for project preparation and, in some cases, the cost of materials
purchased in bulk for reasons of economy, incurred prior to the date of the
Loan Agreement. Up to US$1 million of the proposed loan would be available for
such retroactive financing (draft Loan Agreement, Section 2.02).
Organization, Management and Financial Status of the Borrower (BNH)
44.       BNH operates under the Ministry of the Interior, but is administra-
tively and financially independent. Its principal activity is t:o finance
national housing and sanitation programs. A Board of Directors and an Execu-
tive Committee administer BNH. The department responsible for water supply
and sewerage activities is headed by a Director and is composed of three
divisions -- Analysis and Programming, Technical Control and Finance. The
department is staffed by dedicated and competent engineers and economists
who have launched the PLANASA program. Its capacity is severely taxed as
the enormous PLANASA program moves into full operation. BNH is now consider-
ing a series of improvements in its management of water supply and sewerage
lending programs and, as a first step, has reinforced its local representa-
tion. In Minas Gerais, four engineers and economists have been designated
to assist the representative of BNH for the sector.
45.       More than 40% of BNH's funds comes from a national retirement fund
and a little less than 40% comes from interest and amortization payments on
its previous loans. The loan portfolio has grown from US$2 billion in 1971 to
US$6 billion in 1974. Every loan BNH makes is fully guaranteed by the state
government in which the investment is situated, or by the bank or financial
institution relending the money. BNH's net income has tripled from US$61
million in 1971 to US$186 million in 1974. All BNH's loans are subject to
full monetary correction. As long as this system continues, BNH will retain
its very strong financial position.
Organization, Management and Financial Status of the Beneficiary (COPASA)
46.       COPASA, the Minas Gerais state water company, was established in
1963 under the name of COMAG to finance, build, operate and administer water
supply and sewerage systems throughout the state. The state owns a majority
of COPASA's common stock, with the balance held by federal entities and
municipalities. The company is administered by a Board of Directors and an
Executive Committee elected by the shareholders. COPASA carries full responsi-
bility for implementing the PLANASA program in the state.   By September 30,
1975, COPASA: (i) had signed concession agreements with 180 municipalities,
including all major muiiicipalities in metropolitan Belo Horizonte; (ii) was
operating 46 water supply systems serving 1.2 million consumers and 2 sewerage
networks serving 900,000 and (iii) had 57 subprojects in various stages of
implementation.
47.       COPASA is gearing to its swift expansion and has adopted a new
organizational structure: a central office in Belo Horizonte where project
preparation, financing and supervision is carried out, and 8 regional offices
in the state, including one in Belo Horizonte, charged with the operation of



- 16 -
the regional systems. As agreed under Loan 1009-BR, COPASA has hired a man-
agement consultant who has developed a new set of manuals and administrative
procedures. They have now largely been implemented and COPASA has been shaped
into an effective organization.
48.       With fast growing demands on it, COPASA's data processing equipment
is proving to be over-strained. COPASA has agreed to operate such data
processing equipment as will enable it to handle efficiently the information
required for planning and carrying out its operations (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 4.08).
Benefits and Risks
49.       The proposed Bank financing of the PLANASA program in Minas Gerais
is well justified. Minas Gerais is Brazil's second most populous state.
Of its 14 million people, more than half are classified as urban, and live
in 722 towns and cities of 500 or more inhabitants. The urban areas of the
state contain a cross section of problems that are typical of Brazil as a
whole. Some areas of Minas Gerais, such as the portion in the "drought
polygon" of the Northeast, are among the poorest of Brazil.   Other areas,
such as Belo Horizonte, the capital, are experiencing exceptionally rapid
economic growth and, as a result, complex urban problems. In 1973, only
147 towns and cities were considered satisfactorily served with water, and
84 with sewerage. The needs of the state are great, and the experience
gained in the water supply and sewerage program for Minas Gerais can be
usefully applied to other Brazilian states, especially in the Northeast
where projects that may qualify for Bank support are under preparation.
50.       The proposed loan would assist the Government of Brazil in its
efforts to improve the standard of living of all its citizens by increasing
access to public services and employment. In doing so, the Government also
hopes to reduce the migration to major metropolitan centers of the poor popu-
lation in search of greater opportunities and better services. The proposed
project features selection criteria and a progressive tariff structure de-
vised to extend sanitation services to the largest numbers of the poorer
population without endangering the financial viability of the state water
company.
51.       The proposed loan would also help sustain the continuous effort
to streamline and improve BNH's management of PLANASA, and help build an
institution capable of presiding over the achievement of the program's
national goals. Specifically, suggestions are now being considered by BNH
to improve its communications system, its methodology to review subprojects
and its administrative decentralization.
52.       Since the program is flexible and the subprojects are at various
stages of preparation, the economic rate of return for the project cannot be
calculated. However, subprojects accepted for financing under Loan 1009-BR
have estimated economic rates of return averaging 8%, without including
public health and environmental benefits which are difficult to quantify.



- 17 -
53.       As was the case with the first project, the proposed project in-
volves the administrative risks associated with the carrying out of a com-
plex and large program by a single agency. Furthermore, not all of the
project components are vet firmly identified, nor have they been subject to
prior appraisal by Bank staff. However, the project execution experience
gained by COPASA with the first project, and the subproject preparation and
eligibility criteria deleloped, should ensure the soundness and the feasibi-
lity of the investments undertaken.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
54.       The draft Loan Agreement between Banco Nacional de llabitacao, the
Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, the state of Minas Gerais and the
Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement Between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approv-
ing the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors separ-
ately. Features of the draft Loan Agreement of special interest are referred
to in paragraphs 35, 36, 40, 41, 43 and 48.
55.       In the past, it has been customary in Brazil for the Bank to have
separate Project Agreements with the executing agency and financing agency,
which, in the present loan, would be COPASA and the state. In deference,
however, to the request of BNH that the B1ank not establish contractual rela-
tionships with COPASA and the state to which BNH was not a party, and follow-
ing the pattern established under Loan 1009-BR, Project Agreements will not
be utilized and the draft l.oan Agreement sets forth not only the rights and
obligations of BNH but allso the rights and obligations of COPASA and the state.
BNH, COPASA and the state would all be signatories to the Loan Agreement.
56.        1 am satisfied that the proposed Loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreenment of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
57.        I recommend that thle Executive Directors approve the proposed Loan.
Robert S. McNamara
Pres[dent
By J. Burke Knapp
June 23,1976






ANNEX 1
Page I of 4A pages
TABLE 3A
BRAZIL                  $D SOIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM                       ..........................
...............                       ~~~~~BRAZIL                             REFERENCE COUNTRIES (10701
TOTAL      85I2.0                                          MOST RECENT
AQuIa.          ..                         960       2970    ESTIMATE            MEXICO         URUGUAY         JAPAN 4
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                        3000        500          70070.                            9  0      27,
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)               69.8        92.8        101,1                so.?          2.9       100.3
POPULATInN DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                            8.0        11.0         12.0                26.0         16.0       280.0
PEIASQUAUIN]. AaUC.W L.                                              .                   .
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE PER THDUSAN~)           bO.8        38.4         37.1                4A3.1        22.1         17.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE PER THOUSAN)            11.7         9.9          8.6                 10.2         9.2          7.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THnOlJ          180.0       110.1           ..                 9.      .0              13.1
LIFE EXPECTANCY Al BIRTH CYRI5)          56.0        59.7         61.4A               6 1.0        %; *3        71.11
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   2.6         2.6          2.5                 3. 1         1.4         1 .0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (5)
TOTAL                                     3.0         2.9          2.9                 3.5          2.3         1.0
UJRBAN                                    5*5         5.0          4A.3                5*5          4*0
)ROA'J POPULATION (1 IF TOTAL)             06.0        56.0         59.1 /a             59. 0                    84.
AGF STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 00 YEARS                           43. 0       42. 0        41.7 /              46. 0       2B. A        20 .0
15 TO 60 YEARS                           50.0        55.0         55.1                so 50.0     6.0          68 9
65 YEARS AND OVER                         3. 0        3. 0         3.2 aj              0.0          80          7.
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                        0.9          0.8         0.8 /a               1.0         0.6         0.5
ECOJNOMTC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6          1.5         1.2 /               2.0          1.0         0.b
FAMILY PLANNING.
ACCEPTORS (CU4ULATIVE. THOU)               .        250.0           .                 55.5
USERS (% OF HARRIED WOHEN)                 ..          .6           .                    .I
EM5LnYMENT
TOTAL LAAOR FORCE (THOUSAND)            22700.0     29600.0      37750.0             13 000 .0    11 00.0     5 33 00a.0
LABRfR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (5)            52. 0       40.0                             4 00. 0      17.0        19.0
J4EHPLOYFO (I OF LABOR FORCE)                 ...                                          .          8.0         1.2
INCORE DISTRIBUTION
0 OF PRIVATE INCOME REC'D ~Y.               80L.        3. 
HIGST   5% OF HOU8E)LDS                                    / 80a 6                     t7           9:   a      1:
HII3ST 20W OF DUSzEWLS      I            54A.0  a     62.0  a                          17.8        19.   a      0.2
LOWEST 2 0? OfHUSE BOLDS                  (A.oa        3.0  a                          43.2        07.5 a-      17.6
LOWET 4A0% OF iDUSzaoDLs                 1 2.0  a     10.0  a                           0.2        04,0 7        82.8
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND~ OWNERSHIP
O OWNED By TOP 20% OF OWNERS                 ..        0.0            .                    ..
O OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% nWNERS               .           1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                 2070.0      1950.0       2070.  o             000         900           80 00
POPULATION PER 4URSING PERSON                .       3300.0 A~ 2920.     /8           1570.0      3560.:0       24000
'OPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED               275.0       260.0     .      .               930 .0       160 .0       80D.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)            202.0       109.0        110.0               110.0       107.0        106.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                  6l.0        60,0         65.0                65,0        96.0         76,0
.OF WHICH ANIMALI AND PULSE           38.0         39.0           .                 28.01!.     60.0         45,0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-0                   ...                                         9.0         2. 3        1. 0
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL,                         I00 .0       87.0         71.0               1004.0       110.0       101.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                         11.0        28.0        7(A.0                23. 0       59.0         91.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)                 13.0        23.0         13.0                12.0        12.0         12.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENt
(5 OF SECONDARY)                         19.0       I27. 0       08.0                 20 .0       21.0         20.0
ADuLT LITERACY RATE (Xi                    61,0        68.0           .                 76.0         91.0        99,Q
HOUSING
'ERS;;NS PER RonlH (AVERAGE)                  .          1.0          1.1                 2.2           .          1.0
)CCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (I)                            ..        73.0 o/      67.0                62,0A                     S ..0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(I Of ALL DWELLINGS)                       ..         8.0        53.0                 59.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (I)                         .          8.0         11.0                25,0
CONSOMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             66.0        60.0         61.0               276.0        306,0       551.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOUi POP)              7.0        2S,0         29.0                25.0         02.0        85.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)              328.0       087.0        580.0               586.0        762. 0     3391.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                   3.3          2.7         2.6                 3.1          7.2        1S.9
SEE' NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REYERSIE



ANNEX i
Page 2 of 4 pogee
NOTES
Os1... otharala noted, data foe 1960 r-fer to 1959-61, foe 1970 to 1968-70, cod for Moat Beeset BEtimete to 1971-73.
5 Japan h.. bean selected as a   objictiva Country size. the Brazilian Govesfoet has aho       particular ioterest in Japan's develOPnet4l saPerienc.. .lso,
the two governments have condhucted joint studios to identify possible fture ecnoic Orableae of Brasoil on the bcsic of the ..pari.... in Japa..
BRAZIL                1960    /a  Sescomi-aIiy cot;,. population.
1970    /a  Eoonoicaily active p.pul.tion;      /b  Hospita1 personnel;    le  Iaids only.
MOBT BZCBR   XBTnMATE,     a  1974;    &Ratio of population se4r 15 end 65 and ovar to total labor force,         /.   Hospital per.-nc1,
IiBEICO               1970    is  196,4-66;   /b  Ioside only.
URWUY           ~~1970   /.  1067.
RS, may 26, 1976
0BlprTIONS OF ROEtAL InDCATORS
d~IJtc          e21                                                                                       ra   - Population dividcd by nmaber of practicing
Toa-oa  urfawe area Comprising laned area and inland motora,                MI~~       is ~iIiii       sea, 'trained' or ecertifieda    uorsea, and
Agric, - Most recet estimate of agricultural warea used temporarily or             auxiliary personnel with training or experience.
peresanently for crops, pasturma, market & kitchen gardens or to Ide                           ho aine  W its] bd- Populatico div'ided by nomber of hospital. beds
fallom.n                                                                         cr   a ibini     Iieiipivate genoera. and specilinod hospital and
rehabilitation e.nterB; excludes norsing hones and establishnen ts for
ca lte         - OINP par capita estimates at market prices, calou-         custodial and preventive care .
l62~i comiersion method me World Bank Atlas (1972-74 basis).            Po       8-                                     t     C-Copotad from energy
cot o  ne   eupp  O  Ov  0  0 countryper~ capit. per day;
top i5m  nd % vital. statistica                                                 available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less exports,
M   ~in       t         30)-A      of .July first,  if nost available,             and changes in stock   net supplies exclude animal feed, needs, quanti-
iiveighEii or    ~       smaes                                                    ies useed in food processing and loeaes in distribution; reqairenento
were estimated by PAO based on physiological coed. for cora. activity
Poplto      est        e  qaeb        Mid-year poplatiso per sqoar kilo-           and health considering ensfronnootal teaper.ture, body weights, ag     and
nea te i in1, .!) Ietae  oFws totr aea                                            sex distributions of population, aend allowing 10% for waste at h.uue -
Popalatin dLenBiti- pr Bcuare km of agric. land - Computed en above for             hold level.
agiutural ladol.Prc                                                                 ta ,      o~f_           Itin(g s per day, - Protein content of per
capRitanetsppyo        f   fod rday; net supply of fond is defined as
Vital statistics                                                                   above; rquircents for all countries established by USDA iooeosc.
GZ   birth  oats r thousan  - Annual live births per tboaaand of aid-          Research Services provide for a minimum allowance of 60 gramo of total
year paoulatiosj tan-year aritbmtio    averages ending ine 1960 mud 19,70,       protein per day, aend 20 gram   of animal and pule. protein, of which
And five-year average endi"     in 1975 for mofft resent estiaatt.                10 gs-en should be animal protein; thoee satndards are lover than thooc
Crd  eth rate  mr tha  -d ~Annual deaths per thouean     of aid-pear           of 75 gras    rI'totil protein ace 23 gram  of -anlom  proteinaso
paPalatiem; t"o-ysa, withes, a average: .-dng in 1960 and 1970 an                 averagefor the wrld, proposed by PAO in the Third World Food Su-vy.
five-year average ending in17        o   a    eetetmt.Praiaprtein                                     ~      f  ni    al   Pulse   Protein supply of food
liyrate    hou~ - Annual deaths ofinfants under owe ysar of          derived fran animol aand puss ngass per day.
ageparthosanlvs birta *                                                          rath   thOo    es~2   1-l - Annual deaths par thousand in age group
Life expectancy at birth (vrs) - Average number of years of life remeining        c-gi.t21i2            4Ii tis age group; suggested aso an indicator of
at birth   usually fiv-year averages asolng in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for           maaInttritio..
developing countries,
Groesa -Production rate - Average nunber of livs daughters .     oa will          Muation
bear in her nornal reproductive paried if she experiences present age-        ~      .,eero.la    t_ ato    -    gpimr school - Enrollment of all. ages 
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,             prntg       ofriayshl-age population; includes children aged
1970 and 1975 for developing countries.                                          6-1. years hot adjusfted for different lengths of primary odocation;
population growth rat   %   - total - Compound annual growth rates of aid-         for countries with universal education, enrolbv-t aay eo-nee, 100%
year population for- 165-60   1917     and 1970 to most recent year.             since some pupi-ls are below or above the off.icia  school ago.
Population growth rate (%) - urban - Computed like growth rate of total          Adjusted enrollet rtio-sosdr           shool - Computed as abovo;
population; different definitions of urban areas sa    affect coupaa-             seCOndary 2do!torn reqoir      a.MtWlatfou  years of approved primary
hility of data amng countries.                                                   instruction; provides general, vocational or teacher training
Urban population (% of total) - Ratio of urban. to total papalation;               instructions for pupils of 12 to 17 yeare of age; Correspond-snoe-
different dfntons of artan areas say affset cosp-rability of data                courses are generally ezcluded.
among countries.                                                               Years Of echOoliog prvdod.~ (rt andascnd levels)           Ttlyars, of
Ag,  trucure(parmt)- Children (0-14 years), vsrking-age (15-64 years),       -coln;a        ecctr      eel    oainlmntuto             ay ho par-
sre.tired  65ye"ar and over) as perasntage     of aid-yea  population.         tially or completely excluded.
.:n,yratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to           Vocational enrolment (% of seoodary) - Vocational institution. nld
ags through 61,.                                                   tehnical, idsrlor ote            Programs which operate independently or
I,cooi.c d   rdep ndenv ratio - Rtatio of population under 15 and 65 and over      as departments of secondary institutions.
tothe lb   rforee In age group of 15-64 pare.                                 AAI      ieayrate    g)- Literate adults (able to read and wrlte) as
Family planning - acooptors (cumuative thouh     - Cuscative number of             Percentage of total adult population aged 15 yecro and over.
acceptors of birth-contrl dev    es und r aupie     of national family
planning program  since inception.                                              osn
Famiy ponnig -user (%of mrrid  Inen    Prcentages of narried            Pesn      r oeaverw         - Average number of persons par room   in
FaEnen o c"hild:bearng ag    (1-T,year) who uoo. birth-control devices            occpied Conventional. dbinm        nubnaes        wlig       ald
to all married   some  in sane age group.                                        ono-peuroanamt structures and unoccupied parts. u               m
R)-- Ocuie   coventiona
12,                                                         "99     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~deiig  i  rbnan  uWa  sr~ th,u  insdeorcOutside piped
Totl lbo    fooe (thmouand) - Eonomically active Parsons, including               aster facilities as percentage of all occupied dwellings.
armd    riori aianct  I4ploy   but excluding housewives, students, etc.,;      Lsoe-. to elootrioit7 (% if aul dwellngs) - Conveotional dwellings with
definitions in various countries are nut oo-parable.                             aelectricty in  lving quarters as percent of total dwellings io urban
Laor force         alt~p   j)- Agricultural labor force (in farming,              aced rural areas.
woffre  ,  eunt   ang     nn) as peroentage of total labor force.             Rua    uliq      omced to electricity ()-Computed us above for
Un= 1       d~jof labor force) - Unemployed are usually defined as persons        ruraldwillgeonly
wo area abendm       ig to takea.job,cut of aJob ona         given day,
resmained out of a job, and maeking vork for a apecified minisum period        c
not exceeding one week; may not be comparable betwee    countries dee to                                       -Al types of receivers for radio broad-
different definitions of unemployed and source of data, e.g., asploy-            csst       n   1phl          thusaced Of population; excludes unlicensed
met office statintics, sample surreys, ocmpulsory unmeploywnt insurane,         recevr    in countries and in years when registration of radio aets was
in effect; data for rwset years may not be comparable since most
mooset dischetribution - Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind)  countries abolished licensing.
received by rihes 5%       ihs    20%, poorst 20%, and Poorest 4,0% of          Aaez         cr   prtopp)- paseenger ears comprise motor cars seat-
households.                                                                      ing iess than eight persons   excludes ambulances, he"are   and military
vehislca.
Distribution of Land heeeip       Percentages of land owned by weathes                                           Aanual consumption of industrial, cas-
10% and poorest l1   of lan  owners.                                              rarial, Public and piaealeotrioity in kilowatt hours per capta;
gemral.ly based on prodeetion data, without allowance for leases in
Nutritim                                             S~~~~~~~~~~~~~rids but allowisng for' isprts and euports of electricity.
o e7tlatio           ic     Population divided by number of practicing                     ke            g!- Par c4fitpalannual consumption In kilogram
phyBicims_;M V"     a medical school at university level.0                es      aa,ta..im omestic production pus net imports of cmweprint,.



ANNME I
R~WNIC DEVEWPHNMT DATA                                                                a   e   3   o
(In millions of U.S. dollars)Pa                                                            e    3   o'2
Actual           Eatimated    f   i.etedg         Avarante Annual Growth Eates          As per-ent of GDY
1971      ST7T     1973    1-974      I973      1980     1970-74     1974-76     1976-80      1970      1974       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS A                         A amnts in 1973 prices and exchange rates
Gros. domestic product                 62,710   69,608    77,891   85,369    88.357    121,700      11.0        4.2          7.0      100.6      100.6     100.7
G.ins frnn term   of trade (+)          - 609    - 598       -       - 469    - 965      - 819        .                                 0.6      - 0.6     - 0.7
Gross donestic income                  62,101   69,010    77,891    84,900  105,278    120,881      11.0         3.7         7.1      100.0      100.0     100.0
Imposrt. (jncl. NFl)                   5,199     6,357     7,577   10,073     9,183     11,264      24.0        -5.6        5.7         7.6       11.9       9.3
Exports (import capacity)               4,098    5,218     6,596     5,987    6,705     10,784      10.2        10.2       10.6         7.2        7. 1      8.9
Resou.rce gap                           1,101    1,139       981    4,086     2,478        480        ...0.4                                       4.8       0.4
Consumption                           50,437    54,547    61,529   66,578    69,020     91,586       9.7        3.0         6.5        82.2       78.4      75.8
1nvestment                             12,765   15,602    17,343    22,408   20,910     29,775      22.0        0.5         7.1        18.2       26.4      24.6
Domestic savings                       11,664   14,463    16,362    18,322  .18,432     29,295      16.4         6.7        8.9        17.8       21.6      24.2
National savings                       11,078   13,784    15,655    17,722   17,482     27,933      17.0         5.8         9.0       16.9       20.9      23.1
MEIRCHANDISE TRADE                                Annual data at current prices                                                         As Percent of total
Imports
Capital goods                         1,241    1,734     2,143     3,108    3,569      7,522      31.0        14.3       16.7       42.8        24.8      36.1
Intermediate goods (e..l,fuels)       1,210    1,451     2,233    5.091     4,636      7,343      57.0       -5.4        12.6       35.2        40.6      35.3
Fuels and related materials             316      449       727    2,812     3,022      4,344      63.0        5.6         8.5        9.4        22.4      20.9
of shich:   Petroleum                 251      344       605    2,495     2,650      3,711      71.0        4.3         8.1        6.9        19.9      17.8
Consumption goods                       478      598     1,089     1,519    1,221      1,610      42.0      -11.0         6.7       15.0        12.1       7.7
Total merchandise imports (fob)       3,245    4,232     6,192    12,530   12,448     20,819      50.0         1.9       12.3      100.0       100.0     100.0
Exports
Primary products (excl. fuels)       2,315     3,063     4,718    5,606     6,987     13,142      25.0       17.0        14.4       84.8        70.4     61.2
Fuels and related materials              19       36        52        65       70        101      55,0         7.4        7.7                    0.8       0.5
of vhich:   Petroleum                   8       16        16        30       30         40        ...                              0.4         0.4       0.2
Manufactured goods                      570      892     1,429     2,297    2,793      8,231      55.0        22.5       24.0       14.8        26.8      38.3
Total merchandise exports (fob)       2,904    3,991     6,199     7,968    9,850     21,474      31,0        18.6       17.7      100.0       100.0     100.0
Merchandise trade indices                                    1973-100
Export price index                       67       73       100       134      140        201      18.4        4.6         8.2
Import price index                       77       82       100       145      158        216      14.3         7.9        6.4
Terms of trade index                     87       89       100        93       88         93        ...
Export volume index                      71       88       100        96      113        172      10.0       13.7         8.8
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR /2                   Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates                                               As percent of CDP
Agric.lt.re                             8,850     9,212    9,535    10,346   10,760     13,995       6.8         4.5         5.5      14.6        15.1      14.3
Industry and mining                    15,875    L8,066   20,776    22,480   23,222     32,805      12.0         4.2         7.7      32.7        32.8      33.6
Services                               25,534   :18,532   32,140    35,620   36,860     50,777      11.1         4.3         7.0      52.7        52.1      52.1
Total                                  50,279   55,810    62,451    68,446   70,842     97,577      11.0         4.2         7.0     100.0       100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE                             Annual data at 1973 prices and exchange rates
(Federal Cover nment)
Current receipts                      6,168    7,316     8,629     9,757   10,399     15,540      16.9         6.2        9.0        9.4        11.5      12.8
Current expenditures                  3,553    3,558     4,227     4,577    5,032      7,107       8.5         9.1        6.9        5.9         5.4       5.9
Budgetary saving                      2,615    3,758     4,402     3,180    5,367      8,433      28.0         3.5       11.0        3.5         6.1       7.0
Other Public saving                   3,393    3,669     4,832     5,825    6,348     10,510      15.5         9.0       10.7        5.0         6.9       8.7
Public sector fixed investment        6,404    8,037     8,705     9,667   10,344     15,198      15.8         7.5        8.0        9.8        11.4      12.6
USS million
DETAIL ON PUBLIC SECIOR                at 1973 prices ..d iR
INVESTMENT PROGRAM                           1971-74   %4 of Total
Social Sectors                               4,504        11.3
Agriculture                                     187        0.5
Industry and Mining                          6.060        15.2
Foyer                                        5,499        13.8
Transport and Commnunications                7,384        18.6
Regional development                         1,441         3.6
Other /3                                    14.712        37.0
Total expenditure                           39,787       100-.0
FINANCING
Public sector aavings                     33,674        84.6
Foreign borrovings (net)                   5,762        14.5
Domestic borrowings                          351         0.9
Total finaning                           359,78 7      100.0-
IABOR FORCE AND OUTPUJT PER WORKER                    Total labor force                   Value added per yorker (1970 prices & exc. rates)
In milli-ins      % or 'total         1960-70       In U.S. dollars      % of averagte         1960-70
1960     1970    1~960    1970    Groyth rate.       1960       1970     1960     1970     Groyth rate
Agriculture                             12.2    13. 1    54.0    44.4          0.7           -          402       -         33         -
Induatry                                 3.0     i. 3    13.3    18.0          5.8           -        2,222       -       182          -
Service                                  7.4    11. 1    32,7    37.6          4,1                    1.70                14
Total                                   22.6    2T. 5   Id00,0  1000           31 o                   1,220       --       100     
not applicable
not available
/I The national accounts data were revised in September 1974 to reflect data obtained in the 1970 census. CDP in 1970 has bees revised up-ard
by about 20%, mainly in the industrial secl:or. Revisions of the data for years prior to 1970 still have not been completed.
/2. Net domestic product at factor cost.
/3 Includes financial investment.
may 14, 1979



ANNEX T
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS, gEXT!RNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT                                    Pagi     h   of   L
(In millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Actual             Estinated                                    Prolected
1971      1972      1973       1974       1975      1976      1977       1978       1979       1980        1985
SUMNARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Export  (incl. NFS)                   3,175     4,272      6,596      8,568    10,614    12,116    14,001     16,422      19,507     23,274     52,488
Imports (incl. NFS)                   4.028     5 205      7.577     14.585    14.536    15,228    16,854     18,683      20.965     24.308     50,264
Resource balance (X-M)               - 853     -'933         981     -6,017    -3,922    -3,112    -2,853     -2,261     -1,458      -1,034      2,224
Interest (net)                       - 302      -  359 _ - 514       -  650    -1,273    -1,469    -1,747     -2,009      -2,272     -2,503     -3,053
Direct investment income             -  166     _  202    -  220     -  240    -  270    -  304    -  342     -   384     - 432      - 486      - 877
Workers' remittance                       -         -         -          -         -         -          -          -          -          -
Current Transfers (net)                   14         5        27         23        40        50        50         50          50         50         50
Balance on current account           -1.307    -1.489                -681       5425     -4.835    -          -4.6       -1          -3974      -1.656
Private direct investment               168       318        940        845       940     1,035     1,135      1,275       1,435      1,615      2,908
Medium- and long-term loans
Disbursemsents                        835      1,099     1,376      1,800     2,025     2,226     2,443      2,654       3,004      3,397      6,218
-Repayments                         - 441     _ 525     - 670       -  720    -  779    -  745    -  793     - 868      -1.062      -1,282     -2.867
Net disbursements                       394        574       706      1,080     1,245     1,481     1,650      1,786       1,942      2,115      3,351
Financial credits
Disbursements                       1,442      3,396     3,151      5,017     3,819     4,509     5,054      5,258       5,386      5,587      1,524
-Repayments                         - 641      - 860     -1.058     -1.300    -1,579    -2.190    -2,946     -3.715     -4,130      -4,500     -4,404
Net disbursements                       801      2,536     2,093      3,717     2,240     2,319     2,107       1,543      1,255      1,080     -2,880
Capital transactions n.e.i.             504        626       377        194        -         -         -           -
Change in reserves (--increase)      - 560      -2,565    -2,428      1,049     1,000        _         _          _      -   519     - 836      -1,723
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                                                                                   Actual              Estimated
1971       1972       1970        17
DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE
Medium- and long-term loans                                                      Public debt outstanding
IBRD                                  256       455        199                   and disbursed               4,122      5,509       6,496      9,096
1DB                                   133        180       250                 Interest on public debt         211         296        440        619
Governments                            199       249       270                 Repayment on public debt        608         758        953      1,081
Suppliers                             324        350       775                 Total public debt service(gross)819       1,054      1,393      1,700
Bonds                                   -         -         80                 Other debt service (grosq       607        1820      1,175      1,570
Loans n.e.i.                           121       100       110        _        Total debt service (net)L4    1,384       1,744      2,242      2,670
Total medium- and long-term loans      1,033     1,334     1,684         --
Burden on export earnings (%.)
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT                   Actual debt outstanding on March 31. 1974
Public debt service               25.8       24,7       20.6        t7.4
Disbursed only             Percent Total debt service                 43.6       40.8        34.0       31.2
IBRD                                               708                   10.0    TDS + Invest. Inc.               48.8        45.6       37.3       34.0
Governments                                      1   2,8                 253:    Average Terms on
Suppliers                                        1,008                   14.2
Bonds                                              149                    2.1    Int. as 7. prior year DO & D       6.0        7.2        8.0        9.5
Financial credits                                2,875                   40.5    Amort. as % prior year DO & D     17.4       18.4       17.3       16.6
Public debt n.e.i.                                 273                    3.8
Total public debt                                7,095                  100.0    I8RD debt outs. & disbursed      347        484        647        872
IBRD as  ptblic debt 0 & D         8.4        8.8       10.0        9.6
IBRD as 7. total debt 0 7, 0       5.2        5.0        5,1        5.0
IBRD aa 7. public debt service    4,2         4.8        5,0        4.3
IBRD as 7 total debt service       2.5        2.9        2.9        2.7
/1 Gross debt service less interest earned on reserves.                                                                         May 14, 1975



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of May 31,1976)
Loan                                                          Amount Less    Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                      Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
Twenty-Five Loans Fully Disbursed                                  679.1
403    1965     Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito I                         Power          57.0        0.1
474 /1 1966     Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Estreito II                         Power         39.0        0.7
566    1968     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Volta Grande               Power         26.6        0.6
677    1970     Furnas - Centrais Eletricas
Marimbondo                          Power         80.0        5.3
728    1971     Centrais Eletricas do Sul do
Brasil - Salto Osorio              Power          70.0       14.6
755    1971     Brazil                               Education       8.4       4.3
756    1971     Brazil                               Ports          45.0      34.3
757    1971     Superintendencia de Agua e
Esgotos da Capital                 Water Supply   22.0       10.7
758    1971     Companhia Metropolitana de           Pollution
Saneamento de Sao Paulo            Control        12.0        5.7
786    1971     Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways       46.0       5.2
797    1972    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional        Industry       64.5       6.7
812     1972    Usinas Siderurgicas de Minas
Gerais                              Industry      63.0       10.5
813    1972     Brazil                               Roads          89.0       5.6
828    1972     Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry       64.5       9.4
829    1972     Centrais Eletricas de Minas
Gerais - Sao Simao                 Power         60.()      15.0
853    1972     Brazil                               Land Settl.     6.7       6.0
854     1972     Brazil                              Roads           51.0         3.7
857     1972     Banco dco Brasil                    Grain Storage   23.7         5.5
868     1972     Brazil                              Livestock       26.0         5.8
887     1973     LIGHT-Servicos de Eletricidade      Power           20.0        18.0
923     1973     Furnas Centrais Eletricas -
Itumbiara                          Power          125.0      105.1
924     1973     Brazil                              Agro-Indus.     54.0        38.1
1008    1974     Cia Hidro Eletricas do Sao
Francisco - Paulo Afonso IV        Power          81.0        81.0
/1   In two tranches.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 10
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMIARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of May 31,1976)
Loan                                                           Amount Less   Undis-
No.    Year           Borrower                      Purpose   Cancellations  bursed
(US$ million)
1009    1974    Banco Nacional de Habitacao          Water Supply    36.0       34.5
1067    1974    Brazil                               Education       23.5       23.4
1074    1975    Rede Ferroviaria Federal             Railways       175.0      174.1
1075    1975    Brazil                               Roads          110.0      103.0
1151    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Nacional       Industry        95.0       95.0
1152    1975    Companhia Siderurgica Paulista       Industry        60.0       60.0
1153    1975    Brazil                               Agriculture     23.0       22.9
1171    1975    FEPASA-Ferrovia PauLista             RaiLways        75.0       75.0
1195 /1 1976     Brazil                              Rural Develop. 12.0        12.0
1206 /1 1976     Brazil                              Develop. Bank   85.0       85.0
1207 /i 1976    Brazil                               Feeder Rds.     55.0       55.0
1256 /1 1976    Petrobras Fertilizantes              Fertilizer      50.0        50.0
1257 /1 1976     Companhia Paraense de
Energia Eletrica - COPEIL          Power          52.0        52.0
Total                                            2,665.0 /2 1,233.8
Of which has been repaid to the Bank and others 296.1
Total now outstanding                            2,368.9
Amount Sold                         40.2
of which has been repaid           10.3            29.9
Total now held by Bank                           2,339.0
Total undisbursecl                                           1,233.8
/1   Not effective as of May 31, 1976.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.    A loan of US$40.0 miLLion for
an agriculture research project was signed June 23, 1976. A US$19.(
miLlion Loan for a nutrition project and a US$50.0 miLLion loan for a
power distribution project in the Northeast are being considered by the
Executive Directors on June 24, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 10
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (AS OF, MAy 31. 1976)
Year                                     Obligor                           Type of Business                                 Amount in US$ million
Loans    Ecuity Total
1957                          Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade       Electrical Equipment                              2.00      -      2.00
1958                          Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel             Pulp and Paper                                    1.20      -      1.20
1958                          D.L.RLPlaatico,; do Brasil, S.A.             Automotive Parts                                  0.45      -      0.45
1958                          Willys-Overlani do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                       Motor Vehicles                                    2.45      -      2.45
1959                          Companhia Minetra de Cimento Portland, S.A.  Cement                                            1.20      -      1.20
1959                          Champion Celulose, S.A.                      Pulp                                              4.00      -      4.00
1966/1968/
1972                          Acos Villares, S.A.                          Steel                                             8.00    1.93     9.93
1966/1969                     Papel e Celulos.e Catarinense, S.A.          Pulp and Paper                                    4.06    3.13     7.19
1967/1972                     Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio de
Fertilizantes                              Fertilizers                                       8.22    3.03    11.25
1969                          Petroquimica Uriao, S.A.                     Petrochemicals                                    5.50    2.88     8.38
1970                          Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio      Petrochemicals                                    5.50    2.88     8.38
1971                          Oxiteno, S.A. Industria e Comercio           Petrochemicals                                    4.60    1.44     6.04
1971                          Industria de Celulose Borregaard, S.A.       Pulp                                              4.90      -      4.90
1972/1975                     Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas       Cement                                           29.14    3.20    32.34
1973/1974                     Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA  Steel                                           67.00    6.50    73.50
1973                          Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP     Capital Market Development                        5.00      -      5.00
1973                          Empress de Desenvolvimento de Recursos       Nickel Mining and Refining                       26,00    4.40    30.40
Minerals - CODHMIN, S.A.
1974                          Industrias Villares, S.A.                    Elevators and Industrial
Equipment                                       6.00      -      6.00
1974                          Fabrics de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.             Textiles                                         31.00      -     31.00
1975                          Capuava Carbono,; Industriais Ltd.           Carbon Black                                      6.18    1.08     7.26
1975                          Oxiteno Nordest,, S.A.                       Petrochemicals                                   10.00      -     10.00
Total Gross Comsoitments 1/                                                                  232.40   30.47   262.87
Lass Cancellati,,ns, Terminations, Repayments and Sales                                      171.84    8.09   179.93
Total Cosmitmeni a NoM Held by IFC                                                            60.56   22.38    82.94
Total Undisburasd                                                                             16.18    0.80    16.98
I/ A US$7.45 million emmeitment (consisting ol a US$6.45 million loan and US$1.00 million in equity) to Saotista Ioduntria Tetil do Nordeste S.A.
was approved on April 22, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 10
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
(As of May 31, 1976)
There are now 31 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
403/474   Estreito Hydroelectric Project:    US$57 and US$39 million loans
of February 26, 1965 and December 19, 1966; Effective Dates:
July 8, 1965 and June 1, 1967; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
The project is completed and the loan is almost fully disbursed.
Equipment costs were substantially below estimates. The original
Closing Date was April 1, 1971.
566       Volta Grande Hydroelectric Project:    US$26.6 million loan of
October 23, 1968; Effective Date: February 27, 1969; Closing
Date: June 30, 1976. The project was delayed six months by
spillway foundation difficulties but progress has since been
satisfactory. The project was completed in September 1975 with
a cost overrun of US$138 million due to foundation problems and
cost increases in equipment. However, the project remains econ-
omically justified. The Closing Date of the loan was postponed a
second time to June 30, 1976, to permit payments to continue on
several purchases already placed. The original Closing Date was
January 31, 1975.
677       Marimbondo Hydroelectric Project:    US$80 million loan of May 25,
1970; Effective Date: September 29, 1970; Closing Date: May 31,
1977. Construction work is proceeding on schedule. The cost of
the project has increased by US$42 million, or 15% over the
original estimate, because of increased excavation and concrete
work, resulting from poor rock foundation, and increased equipment
prices. This has not significantly affected the economic justi-
fication of the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 10
Loan No.
.728       Salto Osorio Hydroelectric Project:   US$70 million loan of April 5,
1971; Effecti've.Date: July 19, 1971; Closing Date: May 31, 1977.
The construct:ion of the Salto Osorio hydroelectric plant is progress-
ing satisfact:orily and the first two of the planned four generating
units are now in commercial operation. A cost overrun of about
US$127 million; due to increased equipment and construction costs,
is foreseen, but this does not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The cost overrun is being financed
by loans frori ELETROBRAS and a commercial bank. The construction
of the transmission system, delayed to allow required modifications,
is proceeding satisfactorily.
755       Education Project:   US$8.4 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date:  October 28, 1971; Closing Date:    December 31, 1977.    Prog-
ress on the construction and equipping of the project schools is
now proceeding satisfactorily.   However, the project implementation
is behind the original schedule due to initial delays in establish-
ing and staffing the project unit and because of subsequent changes
in project content. The original Closing Date was December 31, 1975.
756       Santos-Port ]'roject:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. Execution of
the project Ls now proceeding satisfactorily, although there have
been further delays and cost overruns which will be financed by the
Borrower. The Goverdment has approved legislation which converted
DNPVN from a government agency to a public corporation, PORTOBRAS.
PORTOBRAS, wLth the assistance of management consultants, has been
improving port operations in Santos. The National Port Development
Study financed under the project is now completed.
757       Sao Paulo Water Supply Project:    US$22 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30,
1977. The project suffered initial delays caused by the State of
Sao Paulo not furnishing the required counterpart funds, which are
now included in the state budget. The Government has consolidated
all the water and sewerage companies in the state into a single
company, SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new
company was zoncluded on December 18, 1974. Because of the re-
organization of the sector and of management problems which are
now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June 30, 1975, has



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 10
Loan No.
been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the project is expected
to improve with new management of the company which took office
recently.
758       Sao Paulo Pollution Control Project:   US$15 million loan of June 21,
1971; Effective Date: January 13, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
A review of the original design resulted in its modification to ex-
clude the discharge of raw sewage and a related treatment facility.
As a result of the modifications in the project, the loan amount was
reduced to US$12 million. The Government has consolidated all the
water and sewerage companies in the State into a single company,
SABESP, and a loan assumption agreement with the new company was
concluded December 18, 1974. The Description of the Project has
been slightly modified again because of changes in the Investment
Plan. Because of the reorganization of the sector and of management
problems which are now resolved, the Closing Date, originally June
30, 1975, has been postponed to June 30, 1977. Progress of the
project is expected to improve with new management which took office
recently.
786       Railway Project - MBR:   US$46 million loan of August 25, 1971;
Effective Date: February 4, 1972; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
The project is now completed, except for the construction and equip-
ping of the Borrower's main workshop at Jaceaba. The purchase of
equipment for this workshop was delayed because of a change in the
location of the workshop resulting from the Government's decision to
build a new railway line between the cities of Belo Horizonte and
Volta Redonda. To allow additional time required for the purchase
of this equipment, the Closing Date, originally September 30, 1975,
was postponed to March 31, 1978.
797       CSN Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan of
February 8, 1972; Effective Date: August 31, 1972; Closing Date:
July 1, 1976. The latest cost estimate is US$736 million, an in-
crease of about 71.5% over the appraisal estimate due to design
evolution, unforeseen site works and increases in local construc-
tion costs. This cost increase will not significantly affect the
economic justification of the project. The project is now 80%
complete and is about eleven months behind the appraisal schedule.
812       USIMINAS Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$63 million loan
of April 11, 1972; Effective Date: July 28, 1972; Closing Date:
June 1, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$975 million, an
increase of about 70% from the appraisal estimate due primarily
to design evolution and increases in local construction costs.
This cost increase will not significantly affect the economic
justification of the project. The project is 90% complete and is
about twelve months behind the original schedule. Implementation
of Stage III, which is not being financed by the Bank, is well under-
way. The original Closing Date was June 1, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 10
Loan No.
813       Third Highway Construction Project:   US$89 million loan of
April 11, 1972; Effective Date: December 4, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976. Construction works are more than 98% completed
but are slighrtly behind schedule; the estimated total contract
cost Is about 2% above the appraisal estimate. The feasibility
studies and detailed engineering financed under the loan were
started later- than planned, but are now completed at a cost
substantially below the appraisal estimate. Disbursements
have improved during the past year, but are still lagging behind
the appraisaL forecast, and a one-year postponement of the
Closing Date will be required.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:   US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, L972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: January 15, 1977. The latest cost estimate is US$758
million, an increase of about 60% over the appraisal estimate
due primarily to increased local construction costs. This will
not significantly affect the economic justification of the project.
The project Ls now 75% complete and is about nine months behind
the original schedule.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:   US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979.   Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which
does not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing.
853       Alto Turi Lanad Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: December 1,
1978. COLONE has prepared revised farm development plans whose
credit compoinent, to be financed by public financial institutions,
will be significantly higher than originally estimated, although
still low in comparison to other settlement projects. Administra-
tive delays Ln the release of public funds for farm credit and
COLONE working capital requirements and difficulties In recruiting
project stafE delayed the start of project execution. Settlement,
however, has now begun and the project should be completed in 1978
as envisaged.
854       Fourth Highway Construction Project:   US$51 million loan of
August 4, 1972; Effective Date: March 21, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976. Construction is more than 75% completed but
behind schedule. However, disbursement is expected to be com-
pleted by the Closing Date. The estimated total contract cost
is 11% above the appraisal estimate.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 10
Loan No.
857       Grain Storage Project:   US$30 million loan of September 27, 1972;
Effective Date: January 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
After some initial difficulties with the appraisal of subprojects,
the project had been progressing satisfactorily. However, in April
1975 the Government adopted a national grain storage financing
program involving subsidized interest rates. Therefore, on
October 28, 1975, the Bank and the Borrower agreed to cancel the
uncommitted balance (about 20%) of the loan. Disbursement of the
loan is proceeding as scheduled.
868       Interim Second Livestock Project:    US$26 million loan of December 19,
1972; Effective Date: May 24, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The project is proceeding normally. The loan has been fully com-
mitted and is expected to be disbursed as scheduled.
887       Power Distribution Project:    US$20 million loan of April 16, 1973;
Effective Date: July 31, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976. Prin-
cipally due to difficulties encountered in preparing bidding docu-
ments and delays in deliveries of equipment and materials, the
project is about two years behind schedule. Complete delivery and
installation of equipment and materials to be financed by the loaih
will probably take until July 1977 and a postponement of the Closing
Date will be required.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:    US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. Contracts for penstocks, turbines, and concrete and earth
works have been awarded. Commissioning of the first generating
unit is scheduled for March 1980, four months behind original
schedule due to delay in awarding of the civil works contracts.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:    US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978. The project is proceeding normally. The Central Bank
expects to complete commitment of project funds by mid-1976.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:    US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978. A Bank mission recently reviewed the progress
of the preparation and implementation of plans for resettlement of
the 9,700 families to be displaced by the Sobradinho reservoir.
Execution of these plans is underway, and construction of new
towns to house the urban portion of the population has begun. The
rural population is being offered the opportunity of resettlement
in a promising new agricultural area in the Corrente River region
in the western part of the State of Bahia. Those who prefer to
remain near their present houses will be resettled in new villages
on the edge of the future reservoir. The construction of the
underground power station and Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on
schedule.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 10
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:   US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date:  January 9, 1975; Closing Date:   August 15,
1977. The State Water Supply Company changed its name from Companhia
Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG) to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais (COPASA-MG). Due to subproject preparation problems that
are now resolved, disbursements have been substantially behind
schedule. However, the loan is now fully committed to 38 sub-
projects and the way has been cleared for their rapid implementa-
tion.
1067      Second Education Project:   US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date: April 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution has started reasonably well, and is expected
to be completed by the target date. Project implementation units have
been established in all eight project states and these, together with
the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, are underway and
are expected to yield useful information for future sector investment
planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:   US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several low priority items have been
deleted or postponed. A second revision is now underway which
should further reduce the Plan to a more manageable size. These
revisions are not expected to affect significantly the items in-
cluded under Bank financing. The financial situation of the
Borrower deteriorated in 1975, in spite of higher revenues, because
of Increased costs of materials and higher social charges. Pro-
curement is progressing reasonably well, although slower than
expected.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:   US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Contracts for
civil works for all 21 lots have now been awarded and construction
works are proceeding according to schedule. Implementation of the
road maintenance component of the project is slightly delayed due
to protracted negotiations for the hiring of consultants.
1151      CSN Steel Ex-pansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Project is proceeding according to schedule.
Procurement For equipment is underway.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 10
Loan No.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:   US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976;
Closing  Date:  June 30, 1980.   Project is proceeding according to
schedule. Procurement for equipment is underway.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:   US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979. Construction of dikes and the
irrigation and drainage system for the Betume varzea has begun.
Bidding for most of the other civil works and equipment procure-
ment is underway. Preliminary estimates, prior to bid evalua-
tion, are that project costs might increase considerably over
the appraisal estimate due to partial design changes and more
rapid than expected increases in equipment and construction
prices and in costs of land expropriation. The emergency works
remain the least cost way to offset the effects on the project
area population of the hydroelectric developments upstream.
Nevertheless, further possible modifications in the design of
emergency and irrigation works are being studied by CODEVASF and
its consultants with a view to limiting cost increases.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):   US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Terms of reference
have been approved for the Transport Master Plan for Sao Paulo, and
for the technical assistance program intended to improve FEPASA's
operations, marketing and data processing systems. Procurement is
progressing reasonably well.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
SECOND MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Banco Nacional da Habitacao
Guarantor:           Federative Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:         Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, COPASA-MG
Amount:              US$40 million equivalent
Terms:               Payable in 20 years, including 3 years of grace, at
8.85 interest per annum.
Relending            The proposed loan would be relent by BNH to Banco de
Terms:               Creclito Real de Minas Gerais with full monetary correc-
tioni, at an interest rate of 4%. The money would be on-
lent: to COPASA at an interest rate of 4% plus various fees
amotnting to about 2%. The BNH and Banco de Credito Real
sub]loans would have terms of 18-1/2 to 21 years including
grace periods varying from 6 to 36 months, depending on
the subproject.
Project              The project consists of design and construction of water
Description:         supply and sewerage facilities including surface intakes,
welLs, treatment plants, pumping stations, transmission
lines, distribution networks and metered house connections
in various cities and town of Minas Gerais; the develop-
menit of norms, policies and educational programs for im-
plemaentation of sanitation systems in small communities;
and a study of sewerage charges for Minas Gerais.
Estimated Costs:
Local    Foreign     Total
------(US$ Million)--
Water Supply                       64.2      32.2       96.4
Sewerage                           25.0      12.6       37.6
TOTAL                         89.2      44.8      134.0



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Financing Plan:
Total Financing (in US$ million equivalent)
IBRD                            40.0
BNH                             27.0
State of Minas Gerais           67.0
TOTAL               134.0
Estimated
Disburesements:
Fiscal Year       Annually         Cumulative
(In US$ million equivalent)
1977             7.4                7.4
1978            10.4               17.8
1979            .12.0              29.8
1980            10.2               40.0
Procurement
Arrangements:        All items in the project, with the exception of engineer-
ing and other technical consultants' services, will be
procured through international competitive bidding. Bids
of Brazilian manufacturers for equipment and materials will
be allowed the normal margin of preference of 15% or re-
levant import duty, whichever is lower, for bid comparison.
Bank review prior to awarding contracts will be limited to
contracts above US$4.0 million.
Rate of Return:     A rate of return has not been calculated, since the sub-
projects to be financed have not been fully identified.
Appraisal
Report:              Report No. 1042-BR of June 22, 1976.



50'                                      \          45
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS                     (          ,          /    p'o ,       6
LOCATION OF SYSTEM OPERATING COMPANIES   /"               ,                  >",        -
-IS-                          z-_;t       <                 /    f ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  E,o,no, O;V:  4'5-
SYSTEMS ADDED BETWEEN JANUARY 1974  L       /ont,Aou 
*  THROUGH JANUARY 1976             )t                                      r\
*  SYSTEMS OPERATED BY COMAG AS OF  _  _   (                arIa        M                   \
DECEMBER 1973            ST                                                      d
STATE BOUNDARIES    FN                                                          Odo d Mro*  
-RIV...-~-RIVERS       \BRASILIA                                          ON                            A /-  S
I-----O/--
I,J                     )o     EnIiad-  M-nJ
(                              UOS_Vh dJW,sOU  -humoA_am 
-1 ~   JO
\  OG-oASDM. ,
U    RHO  LW,  150  20 OW                                e/   <t          
HItIOUETEBS            )t  \  )                  >     9          )                   OTedfi,O-0,
>g_ ~ ~ ~  ~  ~  '" ~ ~ --   V  ; COAooo,de                 Co,no                                ( flaao3Cramp   zJLi
M-rdd d. NeoM'                      P fr
4 l   att$ ! _ w K   '8tr;rJ   1      (l   -t onU  coo,0                  -'        r  - 
do Parsna,Sa  Dano\o
\s~~~~~~~ ~ ~ S 
tn  < T   _  E R A s/(  ws  t-   >>            t       ab'   J  4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eslenor ( 
o   t A C t; <BELO  HORIZONTE  0                  >
/20-~                                           S,      / A ns,o  .m.-   ORoo- L.t  t            \J
-                                     1                               U
doMonooOU ~WSoo D.- SO
r    ~~                ~~JV                                                             1~~~'~"" ~~
-,   ,N'4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .?  V. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ * "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ..  5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~0
b-  -~~7 
CBLW.O0C  '0,..  ,.  ~ ~  ~  ~   ~  ~   ~  ~  ~  ~                        MIIr.aeOU/~b Ih
BRASILIA                                                0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r'-0



