FILE COPY
Report No. 1042c-BR
Brazil: Appraisal of Minas Gerais
Water Supply and Sewerage Project 11
June 22, 1976
Regional Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT
Currency unit        =              Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1.00                             Cr$8.52         (October 1975)
UPCl. 00                            Cr$125.68       (October 1975)
UPC1.OO                             US$14.75        (October 1975)
MEASURES
1 mm = millimeter    =              0.04 inches
1 cm = centimeter    =              0.39 inches
1 m  = meter         =              3.28 feet
1 km = kilometer      =             0.62 miles
1 1  = liter         =              0.26 US gallons
1 m3 = cubic meter   =              264 US gallons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BNH      =   Banco Nacional de Habitacao
FAE      =   Fundos de Aguas e Esgotos
SFS          Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento
PLANASA  =   Plano Nacional de Saneamento
COPASA   =   Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A.
OT       =   BNH Technical Supervisory Agency (Orgao Technico)
FGTS     =   Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico
UPC      =   Unidade Padrao de Capital
CIP      =   Interministerial Price Council
RTP      =   Relatorio Technico Preliminar = Prefeasibility Study
PB       =   Plano Basico = Feasibility Study
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FO OFFICAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND  CONCLUSIONS  ...............................                          i-ii
1.    INTRODUCTION  ..........................................                               1
2.    THE SECTOR  ............................................                               3
Situation of the  Sector  in  1970  ..................                         3
PLANASA Implementation  ...........................                            4
PLANASA Implementation  in Minas  Gerais  ....                  .......        5
3.    THE BORROWER  ..........................................                               6
4.    THE BENEFICIARY  .......................................                               6
General  ..........................................                            6
PLANASA  Implementation by  COPASA  ....                   .............       7
COPASA's  Organization  ............................                           8
Management  and Personnel  .........................                           8
Accounting/Billing  and Collection  ....                    ............       9
5.    THE PROJECT  ...........................................                               9
Background  of  the Project  ........................                          9
Scope  of the Project  .............................                          10
Description  of  the Project  .......................                         10
Environmental Aspects ........................                                11
Subproject Preparation  and Review  ....                    ............      11
Loan Amount  ......................................                           13
Procurement  ......................................                           13
Disbursement  .....................................                           14
Project  Supervision and Technical  Assistance  .....                         14
6.    JUSTIFICATION  .........................................                              14
Project  Justification  ............................                          14
Design  and  Selection  Criteria  ....................                        15
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discined without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
7.  FINANCES   ..............................................    17
Borrower (BNH) ....................                    17
Beneficiary (COPASA) ......     .......................    18
Profitability ........     ............................    18
Financial Viability ..................  ...........    20
Revenue Covenant .......     ..........................    21
8.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................    21
ANNEXES
No.
1.  The Executing Agency (BNH)
2.  Water Subprojects in 63 Sma'l Cities - 1975 Population
2A. Pilot Project for Small Communities
3.  Water Subprojects in 38 Cities - Population Figures
4.  Project Foreign Exchange Component
5.  COPASA Investment Program
6.  Loan Disbursement Schedule
7.  BNH Balance Sheet Statements
8.  BNH Income and Cash Flow Statements
9.  COPASA Balance Sheet
10.  COPASA Income Statements
11.  COPASA Cash Flow
12.  COPASA - Cost of Investment Financing
13.  Financial Assumptions Used in Projections
14.  Tariff Structure - Water
LIST OF CHARTS                                                    Chart No.
Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento                               7907
Organization Chart of BNH Water Supply and Sewerage            7952
National Training Program                                      7991
COPASA Organization Chart                                     15364
LIST OF MAPS                                                       Map No.
Brazil - Project Locations                                    10636R3



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a US$134.0 million equivalent
program for an additional package of water supply and sewerage projects
in the State of Minas Gerais. An initial package of subprojects was financed
with Loan 1009-BR. The Government has requested a loan of US$40.0 million
which would cover 30% of the disbursements of COPASA, the State Water Supply
and Sewerage Company, for the design and construction of new systems, as well
as improvements or extensions to existing systems.
ii.       The Federal Government has given the Banco Nacional da Habitacao
(BNH) full authority and responsibility for the sector. In 1971, BNH estab-
lished a National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA) whose objective is to solve, with-
in a ten-year period, the problems of basic sanitation in the urban areas of
Brazil. The proposed Bank project is a part of PLANASA in Minas Gerais.
iii.      The loan would financed 30% of expenditures on eligible water supply
and sewerage subprojects, providing water to an additional 500,000 consumers
and upgrading quantity and/or quality of water to 140,000 consumers presently
connected to the systems. The new loan would also finance sewerage treatment
facilities for 400,000 people.
iv.       The Project would be 100% debt financed, 20% by BNH, 30% by the Bank
through BNH and 50% by the State revolving fund (FAE), which is grant-financed
by the State. The Bank loan will be made to BNH, the Borrower, which would
relend the proceeds of the loan to Banco de Credito Real de Minas Gerais, the
BNH Financial Agent, who would, in turn, on-lend to COPASA, the Benefi,iary.
The Beneficiary's net internal resources would cover all operating costs, debt
service payments, and working capital requirements.
v.        The proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to the
Borrower for 60% of the latter's disbursements made after the date of the
proposed loan signature under BNH subloans to COPASA (at an interest rate of
4% plus various fees and levies amounting to about 2% with full monetary
correction and with an amortization period of 18 years after a period of grace
varying from 6 to 36 months, depending upon subprojects) for those subprojects
accepted by the Bank, including expenditures made by COPASA prior to this loan
signature for a total amount not exceeding US$1,000,000.
vi.       The Bank objectives in making this loan are to continue assisting the
Beneficiary in achieving the PLANASA goals in the State of Minas Gerais; to
assist in the development of a pilot water supply subproject in rural communi-
ties which would serve as a model for other rural subprojects in the State and



- ii -
perhaps in other Brazilian States and other countries; to continue providing
technical assistance for the development of a well-managed water authority in
the State of Minas Gerais; and to use the experience gained with the first
loan in this new operation and in future Bank operations in Brazil within the
sector, particularly in the Northeast region of the country.
vii.      All materials and civil works contracts to be financed out of the
proceeds of the loan would be procured in accordance with the Bank's guide-
lines. Most contracts, except for sewerage engineering consultants, are ex-
pected to be won by Brazilian firms.
viii.     Agreement has been reached on the conditions listed in Chapter 8,
and the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$40.0 million equivalent,
for a term of 20 years, including a 3-year grace period.



BRAZIL
APPRAISAL OF
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Brazil has requested a Bank loan to help finance
a water and sewerage program in the State of Minas Gerais, the second most
populous state. This would be the fourth Bank loan for the water supply and
sewerage sector in Brazil. The first two loans, for US$22 million and US$12
million, were made in 1971 to help develop the water supply, sewerage and
pollution control facilities for metropolitan Sao Paulo. The third loan for
US$36 million (1009-BR) was made to BNH in 1974 to finance subprojects in the
State of Minas Gerais, within the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA).
1.02      Although the 38 subprojects already allocated to Loan 1009-BR would
permit full disbursement of this loan, Bank disbursements have been substan-
tially slower than anticipated because of poor subproject preparation which
delayed implementation, as well as management and organizational problems at
COPASA, and a very slow approval procedure at BNH. Thanks to intensive Bank
supervision since signature of Loan 1009-BR, most of these problems have been
overcome and the acceleration of disbursements has already started. The con-
struction program in the State of Minas Gerais is now going ahead rapidly and
requires additional fundings for its implementation to proceed smoothly.
COPASA has not met its financial covenant under Loan 1009-BR in 1975 because
of low tariff levels, but is expected to achieve adequate financial performance
in 1976 due to the new tariff increase recently approved by the national
tariff board and the measures taken by COPASA management to reduce operating
costs.
1.03      BNH would be the Borrower.  COPASA, as the Beneficiary, is respon-
*         sible for the design, construction and operation of the subprojects included
in this project. The US$40.0 million proposed loan, which represents 30% of
the estimated project cost of US$134.0 million, would be for a period of 20
years, including 3 years of grace. The amount of the Loan represents about
90% of the estimated foreign exchange component of the Project.
1.04      The Project would include additional subprojects which form a part
of PLANASA in the State of Minas Gerais. The plan was formulated in 1971 by
BNH who has also been responsible for its implementation. Its objective is to
solve, within a ten-year period, the problem of basic sanitation in the major-
ity of Brazilian urban communities (see 1.05 below). This Project Is composed
of about 108 water supply and sewerage subprojects to be constructed in com-
munities ranging from 500 Inhabitants to 1.6 million inhabitants. It is
possible that some of these subprojects might not be executed, in which case
other subprojects of similar characteristics would replace them. This loan
will help finance water supply subprojects benefitting about 500,000 new



-2-
customers, improve the quality of water to about 140,000 people, and provide
sewerage service to about 400,0(0 people. Together, the two loans would
finance water supply projects benefitting 2.3 million new consumers and
improve water service to 1.1 million consumers. The two loans would also
provide sewerage services to 1.5 million people and provide sewage treatment
for an additional 400,000 people already having sewerage services.
1.05      The proposed loan follows the approach established in Loan 1009-BR
which is to provide financing arid guidance to a State Water Company respon-
sible for the design, construction and operation of all sanitation projects in
that State. These subprojects are prepared under the BNH guidelines reviewed
and approved by the Bank. In making this loan, the Bank would continue to
support the basic policy of the Federal Government towards the sector, that
is:
(i) to extend water supply to 80% of the urban population
in 80% of the nation's urban centers, 1/ and all metro-
politan regions;
(ii) to extend sanitary sewerage services to all capital
cities, metropolitan regions, and major cities;
(iii)  to extend more simple sewerage systems to smaller urban
centers, to the extent possible;
(iv) to assure the financial viability of the sector.
1.06      The administration of this loan continues the principle established
by Loan 1009-BR of working with BNH in an effort to upgrade and streamline
their project appraisal and supervision efforts. Eventually the Bank would
rely on this organization for the major part of the appraisal and supervision
work needed under the Project. Otherwise, supervision of such a large number
of water supply and sewerage subprojects would not be possible without major
expansion of Bank staff.
1.07      The proposed Project represents an effort to further expand water
supply lending activities to those population groups which the Bank has not
thus far reached through the first Minas Gerais loan. This project includes
a pilot program for 63 small communities. If successful, this program could
be extended to additional small communities which could be financed under the
proposed loan, and would help BNH in establishing standards for small coinmuni-
ties which it would use throughout Brazil.  Thus, the project is in  une with
1/   According to Brazilian law, an urban center is defined as a community
composed of more than 200 dwellings.



-3-
the Bank's emphasis on reaching the low-income, urban and rural population
of its member countries.
1.08      The project appraisal was based on information furnished by COPASA
and BNH. The appraisal was undertaken in October 1975 by Messrs. Charles G.
Todd and Luis Chang (Bank). Assistance to the appraisal team, both in the
field and at headquarters, was provided by Messrs. Rene Costa and Antonio
Patron.
2.   THE SECTOR
Situation of the Sector in 1970
2.01      In 1970 the Water Supply and Sewerage Sector in Brazil was
characterized by service levels of less than 60% of the urban population
having public water supply and less than 30% having public sewerage. Only
about 40% of the population lived in cities where water demand was met at
all times. This situation was expected to deteriorate further due to migra-
tion from rural to urban areas.
2.02      The degree of service varied widely both among and within regions
to the detriment of the smaller communities with low payment capacity. This
situation was particularly acute in the Northeast, where less than 36% of the
urban population was provided with public water and less than 8% with
sewerage. 1/
2.03      High infant mortality rates and the incidence of deaths due to
water-borne diseases indicate a lack of efficient and widespread water ser-
vices. The death rate among children under five years of age, due to gastro-
enteric infections, was nearly 100 times that of the U.S. Many industries
had to bear the burden of constructing their own water supplies or locating
in areas which were not necessarily the most suitable with respect to labor
and consumer markets.
2.04      The lack of adequate services stemmed from an inefficient institu-
tional framework (historically, responsibility for water and sewerage in
Brazil has been given to municipalities, the level of government weakest in
organizational, technical and financial capabilities); uncontrolled and mul-
tiple means of financing capital expenditures, which included a large amount
of grants from the states; inadequate tariff levels; and a limited number
of sufficiently prepared professionals in the fields of sanitary engineering
and administration.
1/   About 110 of the 722 PLANASA defined cities included in the Minas Gerais
State Program are located in the Northeast region.



-4-
2.05      In an attempt to solves these problems, the Federal Government in
1971 entrusted the Banco Nacional da Fabitacao (BNH) both with establishing
a national program (PLANASA) for the financing, design and construction of
water and sewer services, and the training of personnel for their manage-
ment and operation. The PLANASA target for 1980 was to connect 80% of the
total urban population to water supply systems and 50% to public sewer sys-
tems. 1/  This program was estimated to cost about US$1.5 billion for water
supply works and US$1.0 billion for sewerage works. The program was supposed
to be reviewed on the basis of E. global feasibility study for each state, and
subsequently modified on the basis of detailed subproject costs as designs
were being prepared. All states were supposed to establish a State Water
Company responsible for construction and operation of the water supply and
sewer systems, and to enter into a "PLANASA Agreement" with BNH stipulating
service level targets as well as State and BNH financial participation. BNH's
financing was estimated to represent 47% of water supply works (US$700 mil-
lion), and states' financing was estimated to be equal to that of BNH. About
6% of the water supply program was supposed to be provided under the form of
grants by the States for subprojects in communities where the population was
unable to pay for the full cost of water.   At the time the program was
launched, no specific rules were established for the financing of sewerage
works. One of the basic principles of PLANASA was that the State Water
Companies would always maintain an adequate financial position, that is,
revenues would at least equal operating costs plus debt service payments.
PLANASA Implementation
2.06      The PLANASA program has not fully developed as was expected in 1971.
Although all the States have entered into PLANASA agreements with BNH and
created State Water Companies, not all of these companies have been able to
prepare sound investment programs and financial plans.   Many State Water.
Companies are facing management difficulties, and their financial position has
been maintained at adequate levels only through a heavy percentage of works
financed by grants (about 20% for the whole IPLANASA). The National Sanitation
Training Program was more than one year behind schedule by the end of 1975.
(Chart 7991 outlines the National Training Program.)
2.07      Better results were not achieved because of the underestimated cost
of the program and the difficulties encountered by the State Water Companies
in implementing adequate tariffs and in entering into concessionary agreements
with the municipalities where works were to be built. Revised figures for the
PLANASA program (1971-1980) show a total program cost of IJS$4 billion dollars,
i.e. 1.6 times the initial figure. It also became clear that the then PLANASA
objective of 80% of the population to be served with water could De achieved
by simply expanding systems in the major metropolitan/industrial certers, thus
ignoring most of the smaller communities where the real social need tor water
supply exists. In reviewing the PLANASA position, the Federal Government
decided to redefine the PLANASA objectives and conditions of implementation
1/   These were the original target,; see 2.07 for the ApriL 1975 modifica-
tions.



-5-
in 1975. The new objectives are to provide water services to 80% of the
population in at least 80% of all communities, and sewerage services to 50%
of the total population in all larger cities. BNH interest rates have been
reduced to between 2% and 7% with principal adjusted ("indexed") in accord-
ance with price changes. In early 1975 BNH launched a technical assistance
program (SATECIA) to the State Water Companies with PAHO as management con-
sultants. The first stage of this program is already completed and diagnosis
of the companies is under review. Concurrently, consultants were hired to
prepare a National Tariff Law for the sector. This study covered various
aspects of tariff problems in Brazil, particularly tariff levels and the
ownership of municipal water resources. The study has been completed, re-
viewed by BNH and some of the most important State Water Companies, and trans-
mitted to the Federal Government for approval. In early 1976, BNH enacted new
regulations concerning the responsibilities and administration of its SFS
regional offices with a view to assuring better control of PLANASA implementa-
tion and of alleviating unneccessary overcentralization at the BNH/SFS head
office. These new regulations were accompanied by an increased number of
professionals assigned to SFS regional activities (from 11 to 47 - see para.
3.01).
2.08      The decisions taken or proposed by the Federal Government are sound
and should substantially help the State Water Companies in achieving their
social objectives. However, some major difficulties still remain in the im-
plementation of PLANASA: the National Training program has not yet provided
satisfactory results; simplified procedures are needed to update the invest-
ment objectives and financial plans of the State Water Companies; the finan-
cial position of many State Water Companies has to be stabilized and their
construction capacity is to be reinforced; BNH in Rio has to implement guide-
lines for the review and approval of subprojects that were agreed upon during
negotiation of the proposed loan (see para. 3.01), and to design and implement
a new information system for the better management of PLANASA. Also, the ways
to approach the sewerage problems remain to be defined.
PLANASA Implementation in Minas Gerais
2.09      Under Loan 1009-BR, the Bank has assisted COPASA in strengthening
its management and organization; In improving project preparation and evalua-
tion; in preparing adequate investment programs and financial projections;
and in improving BNH's technical review of project construction. Today, BNH
considers COPASA to be one of the best managed State Water Companies in Brazil.
2.10      The major negative experience during the early stages of Loan 1009-BR
was the scarcity of qualified staff In COPASA which, coupled with understaff-
ing problems in BNH's Regional Offices, frequently resulted in defi'ient project
evaluation. These problems are either resolved or in process of resolution.
2.11      The objectives of the second project are:  to continue assisting
COPASA in upgrading its capabilities whlle trying to achieve the PLANASA goals;
to support the development of a pilot project for small communities which, if
successful, can be applied to other areas of Brazil; and to assist COPASA and



- 6 -
BNH to develop standards and norms for sewerage programs which were not consi-
dered in the first loan. This sec.ond project also continues the process of
establishing mutually acceptable project evaluation criteria so that additional
project evaluation tasks can be delegated to BNH.
3.   THE BORROWER
3.01      The Borrower for the proposed loan will be the Banco Nacional de
Habitacao (BNH), as was the case for Loan 1009-BR (BNH was exhaustively re-
viewed in that loan documentation, and Chapter 3 of the appraisal report of
Loan 1009-BR is attached here as Annex 1; see Chart 7952 for organization of
Sanitation Finance System of BNH). Specific areas in Loan 1009-BR were set
aside for mutual discussion to help the relevant Department 1/ of BNH to
insure effective overall management of the PLANASA program. Initially, Bank
supervision activities focused on COPASA. The first in-depth review of BNH
performance was made during the latter half of 1975, concurrent with the pre-
paration for the second Minas Gerais project. The findings and recommendations
of this review have been communicated to BNH and discussed during negotiations.
Some of the Bank recommendations (decentralization of SFS responsibllities and
adoption of Bank-BNH common criteria for subproject review and approval) have
already been approved by BNH's management. It was agreed during negotiations
that these discussions will continue in the future.
3.02      Under Loan 1009-BR the Bank encouraged BNH to strengthen Its tech-
nical supervisory agency (O.T.) 2/ for the State of Minas Gerais. BNH res-
ponded by contracting Companhia Estadual de Tecnologia de Saneamento Basico
e Controle de Poluicao de Aguas (CETESB), a recognized state-owned training
and consulting firm from the State of Sao Paulo to handle this function.
CETESB performance has been satisfactory.
4.   THE BENEFICIARY
General
4.01      The State Water Company for Minas Gerais was established on
October 4, 1963 to finance, build, operate and administer water and sewerage
systems throughout the State. In November 1974, the name of the Company was
changed to Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, S.A. (COPASA) 3/, and its
board of directors was increased from three to six. Each director is elected
for a period of three years by the General Assembly of Shareholders (in fact,
the Secretary of Public Works, since the State owns the vast majority of
shares). Thls Board of Directors also functions as the top management echelon
1/   Sistema Financeira do Saneamento (SFS).
2/   O.T. (Orgao Technico) BNH technical agent at each State Water Company.
3/   Previously known as Companhia Mineira de Agua e Esgotos (COMAG).



- 7 -
of the Company. 1/  During negotiations assurances were obtained from COPASA
that the Bank would be af£orded a reasonable opportunity to comment on any
proposed substantial reorganization of the Company. Also the State has the
intention to afford the Barnk an opportunity to comment on the qualifications
and experience of any new President before he is appointed.
PLANASA Jmplementation by COPASA
4.02      On January 31, 1973, the State Government, COPASA and the State
Bank signed the PLANASA agreement with BNH, giving COPASA the full responsi-
bility of carrying out the PIANASA program in the State. In the period from
that date to September 30, 1975, COPASA: (i) had signed concessions with 180
municipalities, including all cities and major industrial centers in the Belo
Hlorizonte major metropolitan region; (ii) was operating 46 systems covering
an estimated 1.2 million people for water supply, and 2 systems covering an
estimated 900,000 for sewerage services, and (iii) had prepared and/or was
implementing 57 subprojects for cities ranging in size from 800 to 1,600,000
inhabitants. Participation of the other major population centers is necessary
to make the full PLANASA program financially viable, yet those are the commu-
nities that initially refused to join the program. The present governor of
the State is attempting to overcome the objections of such cities in his state.
4.03      COPASA has, with the aid of consultants, prepared the Global
Feasibility Study (for water supply) required by PLANASA and by Loan 1009-BR,
and has also completed the socioeconomic study required by Loan 1009-BR which
was designed to establish basic parameters for tariff structuring.  The Global
Feasibility Study was purely theoretical, and while it provides a "desirable"
priority of project implementation, it neither adequately calculates the
amount of revenues necessary to cover costs nor includes an appropriate
methodology permitting revisions to project priorities which reflect changes
in project design or costs. Global Feasibility guidelines are now under
review by BNH and will be appropriately modified. Tariff restructuring has
been adopted and is now implemented by COPASA (see para. 7.11). In addition,
COPASA has adopted a computer program for consolidation of both infoiaation
(operating and financial) and financial projections. Both programs were
prepared with the help of Bank staff during project supervision.  It is
anticipated that these programs will be on COPASA's data processing equip-
ment and partially functioning by mid-1976.
4.04      COPASA has traditionally hired consulting engineers to design sub-
projects, and receives assistance from BNH/O.T. for design review and con-
struction supervision. COPASA's major thrust, in 1976 and 1977, will be
implementation of subprojects, the improvement of project preparation through
continued use of consultant specialists for project design, and an upgrading
of its Technical Review Group in an effort to reduce the present subproject
approval time-lag.
1/   See Chart 15364 attached.



-8-
4.05      COPASA has had problems in obtaining the scheduled number of house
connections to the water supply and sewerage systems because potential low-
income consumers have limited financial resources to pay for connections. A
publicity campaign has been mounted to motivate the school children and their
parents towards the desirability of having running water in the home (as well
as its health benefits). In order to further encourage people to connect to
the systems, COPASA, since September 1975, is no longer charging a connection
fee in cities other than Belo Horizonte; management is considering the same
policy for Belo Horizonte, but is awaiting the outcome of present cost studies.
COPASA's Organization
4.06      To cope with its greatly increased work load, COPASA management has
implemented a new functional organizational structure for the company (see
Chart 15364). COPASA will have a central office in Belo Horizonte and a
regional office in each of its eight or more administrative regions, includ-
ing Belo Horizonte. The planning, financial and subproject preparation and
construction functions will be performed by the central office. The regional
offices will be responsible for administration and operation of the water
supply and sewerage systems.
4at )7    The central office has already been organized, as have five regional
offices whose functions are limited, for the time being, to the operation of
the existing water supply and sewerage systems. The central office has three
departments at the staff level - Public Relations, Planning, and Legal - and
five at the operational level: Finance, Administration, Operations, Operations
Assistance, 1! and Project Design and Construction. Regional offices will be
gradually expanded in keeping with COPASA's pace for taking over the municipal
systems.
Management and Personrnel
4.08      Under Loan 1009-BR, COPASA agreed to engage a management consultant
firm to prepare administrative procedures, manuals and controls, long-range
planning guidelines, and information systems to control ongoing programs. To
a large degree, this consultant activity has been completed, and the various
programs are being implemented bv COPASA's management.
4.09      Problems continue to exist because of deficiencies in the data
processing facilities, long-range financial planning, and control of ongoing
programs. Due to the constant expansion, the present data processing equip-
ment is insufficient to handle present and future work loads. Acquisi-
tion of more equipment has been stymied by a State regulation requiring all
state-owned companies to use the state-owned data processing center (a regu-
lation that has not been enforced in the cases of the state-owned telephone
company and of CEMIG, the state electric enterprise). Computer programs for
1/   Consists of Commercial, Materials Control, Transportation, and Information
Systems (Data Processing).



-9-
long-term financial projections, project control, and consolidation of exist-
ing operations have been provided by the Bank, but are not yet in use due to
programming and equipment deficiencies. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that COPASA will operate such data processing equipment as will
enable it to handle efficiently the information required for planning and
carrying out its operations.
4.10      As of September 30, 1975, COPASA had a total of 2,370 employees.
COPASA's current operations, projects financed under Loan 1009-BR, and under
this proposed loan would provide water services to 4.1 million people and
approximately 2.7 million people with sewerage services by 1979. To obtain
the additional employees needed to operate these systems, inexperienced people
will have to be recruited and trained. COPASA has already established a State
Waterworks Training Center, and is adopting a satisfactory training program.
This program will continue to be under constant Bank supervision.
Accounting/Billing and Collection
4.11      COPASA's general and cost accounting systems are satisfactory.  All
systems and processing are handled by computer (para. 4.09).
4.12      Billing and collection for the city of Belo Horizonte have been
very unsatisfactory due to unidentified receivables at the time the system
was absorbed by COPASA, subsequent computer input and program problems, as
well as the absence of a coordinated service cut-off program for non-payment
of bills. This was the primary reason why the external auditors, Price
Waterhouse Peat, did not give an opinion on COPASA's financial statements for
1973 and 1974 (see para. 7.09). COPASA management has, in 1975, taken a
series of actions to improve this condition (which steps have Bank approval),
and COPASA did obtain from their external auditors, and presented to the Bank
during negotiations, a certification of their 1975 financial statements.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations, that audited financial state-
ments would be submitted to the Bank within four months of the close of
COPASA's fiscal year.
5. THE PROJECT
Background of the Project
5.01      The proposed project covers a part of the Minas Gerais PLANASA pro-
gram. Minas Gerais is the second most populous state in Brazil. The State
has a total population of about 14 million inhabitants and more than half
are classified as urban population living in 722 communities. The first Bank
loan of US$36 million covers the expenditures for the implementation of water
and sewerage services to a group of cities, including the city of Belo Horizonte,
the State capital, with a population of about 1.6 million Inhabitants. This
loan is expected to be disbursed by mid-1978. Due to subproject preparation
problems, whlch are now resolved, disbursements have been behind schedule.



- 10 -
However, Loan 1009-BR has already been fully allocated, and It is expected
that the implementation of the approved subprojects will soon be made, which
accordingly will permit an acceleration of disbursements.
Scope of the Project
5.02      The proposed project would include about 102 water supply sub-
projects (140 subprojects including Loan 1009-BR), satisfying the needs of an
additional population of 500,00() inhabitants (2.3 million including Loan
1009-BR) and upgrading quantity and/or quality of water to 140,000 inhabitants
(0.2 million for both loans). Bank participation in the water supply program
in both loans will cover about 23% of the total urban population of the State
of Minas Gerais. The project would also cover about 6 sewerage subprojects
which would provide services to an additional population of 400,000 inhabitants
(1.3 million in both loans). The main object of the proposed project is to
provide water supply and sewerage facilities on a large scale, particularly to
low income populations. It features a progressive tariff structure that would
help to extend the services to a large population through cross-subsidization.
Part of the program is a water supply pilot program for small communities.
Elements of the program will be for water supply and sewerage subprojects
in the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area. They are expected to represent
about 56% of disbursements under the proposed new loan (45% of disbursements
under Loan 1009-BR). It is known that to apply the design criteria of large
cities to small communities is often prohibitive, and to provide a large
number of small communities with a water distribution system conceived along
those lines could very well endanger the financial viability of a state water
company. For the above reasons, COPASA has developed a well conceived pilot
project to serve 63 communities (see Annex 2). BNH is presently developing
guidelines and policies to be used in the preparation, review, and implementa-
tion of subprojects to be constructed in communities under 3000 inhabitants
for all of Brazil, and has welcomed COPASA's assistance in this matter.
Depending upon the results of this pilot project and studies, approximately
350 cities in the State of Minas Gerais, and about 1,600 in Brazil, could be
provided with adequate water service by 1980.
Description of Project
5.03      The project includes:
(i)  A pilot program to supply water to about 63 communities
(populatlon up to 5,00() inhabitants). This program will
develop design parameters for water production and dis-
tribution, starting from surface or groundwater intakes.
The program has been approved-by the Bank and BNH
(see para. 5.02 and Annex 2);
(ii)  About 38 new water subprojects which are in an advanced
stage of preparation, 29 of which have had Bank technical
review. These 38 subprojects cover populations up to
150,000 inhabitants. They would provide water supply



- 11 -
services in cities where none presently exist, and would
upgrade the quantity and/or quality of water to existing
consumers (see Annex 3);
(iii)  Water supply and sewerage subprojects consisting of elements
of the Belo Horizonte Metropolitan area program, complemen-
tary to, but distinct from, those financed under Loan 1009-BR.
It is expected that Loan 1009-BR will be fully disbursed by mid-
1978, and the proposed new loan by the mid-1980 (see Annex 6). The new loan
will provide for the immediate application of the pilot project for small
cities as well as other projects in an advanced stage of preparation. During
the execution of the proposed project the list of cities may change, with some
projects being postponed and others on about the same order of size and char-
acteristics replacing them. Subprojects will be appraised and executed by
COPASA and its consultants. BNH and Bank review of subproject preparation and
execution would be made in accordance with the review procedure described in
para. 5.05 through 5.07 and in Chapter 6.
Environmental Aspects
5.04      The Project's emphasis is on providing water.  Over the short-term,
pollution of the surface waters of Minas Gerais can be expected to increase,
but where such pollution I/ endangers sources of public water supply, the
project includes the necessary sewerage works. Priority will be given to
the major urban centers and the provision of treatment and disposal facil-
ities where serious pollution problems exist.
Subproject Preparation and Review
5.05      BNH's approval of subprojects is required before any contract for
financing is signed. This approval is preceded by the review of the OT of
the subproject feasibility studies prepared by COPASA and their consultants.
The Bank would continue to be given the opportunity to comment on all sub-
projects in Minas Gerais (see para. 5.07).
5.06      At the beginning of the execution of PLANASA in Minas Gerais,
subproject preparation was deficient due to the insufficient experience
of consulting and technical personnel of COPASA. COPASA has taken the neces-
sary steps to resolve this problem by holding seminars and project review
training sessions with the assistance of Bank staff. Subproject preparation
is now greatly improved and monitored by the Bank on a continuing basis.
5.07      Subproject evaluation and justification criteria used to approve
or disapprove projects are described in Chapter 6. During negotiations, it
was agreed that these criteria would be used by BNH and COPASA in their
project evaluation and justification. Bank review would consist of examining
the evaluation performed by these institutions before approving the inclusion
1/   BNH standards require a water-shed study with sewerage disposal.



- 12 -
of a subproject for execution. Although the Bank would have the right to
review all subprojects before approval, in practice its review would be limited
to large subprojects, sewerage subprojects, and those identified as needing
special justification.
5.08      Total Project costs are tabulated below:
PROJECT COSTS 1976-1979
Local Currency (UPC 000)/    In US$ millions
Local    Foreign   Total    Local Foreign Total
1    Subprojects
Water Supply                   3,167      1,586    4,753      46.7   23.4   70.1
Sewerage                       1,234        624    1,858      18.2    9.2   27.4
Total Base                 4,401      2,210    6,611      64.9   32.6   97.5
2    Engineering and
Administration - 10%             440        221       661       6.5    3.3    9.8
Sub-total                  4,841      2,431    7,272      71.4   35.9  107.3
3    Physical Contingency - 10%       485        243       728       7.1    3.6   10.7
Sub-total                  5,326     2,674    8,000       78.5   39.5  118.0
4    Price Contingency                   -          -        -      10.7    5.3   16.0
(para. 5.09)
5    Total Cost                     5,326      2,674    8,000       89.2   44.8  134.0
6    Proposed Bank Loan                                                    40.0
/1   UPC - Unidade Padrao de Capital - is a constant purchasing power monetary
unit. In October 1975, 1 UPC = Cr$125.68 = US$14.75.
5.09      Costs were estimated on the basis of information supplied by COPASA,
and are based on preliminary designs and plans for the works In Belo Horizonte
and for those in a sampling of cities of varying sizes. Average unit prices
for equipment and construction are those in the State of Minas Gerais.
These preliminary designs and plans vary in quality, but are present'y being
revised by COPASA following recommendations of Bank staff; final documents
shotuld be submitted to the Bank in accordance with the procedure described in
paras. 5.05 and 5.07. Physical contingencies amount to 10% of the estimated
cost of the project. Engineering and project administration were estimated at
10% of net construction cost. A constant purchasing power monetary unit, the
UPC, was used in calculating the Project cost.  This unit is used by BNH and
FAO in all their financial transactions. The UPC value in current CR$ has



- 13 -
progressed at the same rate, over a five year period, as the cost of con-
struction in Rio de Janeiro, the most reliable indicator in Brazil. Since
most of the contracts are likely to be awarded to local suppliers and
contractors, it has been assumed that the effect of direct and indirect im-
ports Is reflected In the above cost of the construction; hence, that the
cost of the Project would remain constant in terms of UPC. World inflation
was taken into account when converting UPC into current US$ by using an
annual contingency of 6%.
5.10      The project contaLns an estimated 860 man-months of consulting
services to assist in the preparation of the feasibility studies, engineering
designs and specifications as well as project supervision and management assis-
tance and training. The estimated cost of these services is US$5 million or
an average cost per man-month of US$5,800.
Loan Amount
5.11      A Bank loan of US$40 million is proposed.  It would be used to reim-
burse BNH for 60% of its disbursements for equipment and materials and services
contracts, including civil works for the water and sewer system subprojects in
Minas Gerais. Since BNH would finance 50% of sub-project costs, the Bank loan
would finance 30% of the total estimated cost of the subprojects, and would
represent about 90% of the estimated foreign exchange component (see Annex 4).
In Loan 1009-BR the foreign exchange component of the investment was estimated
at 7% because only direct imports were included in that calculation.
Procurement
5.12      COPASA would follow Bank guidelines for procurement for all contracts.
Where possible, contracts for equipment and materials will be grouped.  Pre-
qualification procedures will be reviewed by the Bank and the list of prequali-
fied bidders selected in accordance with these procedures would be submitted
to the Bank for review before the applicants are notified. Bank prior review
and approval of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts
will be requested for all contracts estimated to cost US$4,000,000 or more.
For all other contracts COPASA will make available to the Bank a copy of each
contract together with the analysis of the respective bids and recommendations
for award. Should the Bank determine that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the agreed upon procedures, it would either deduct from a fu-
ture withdrawal from the loan account an amount corresponding to any disburse-
ment previously made for a contract which turned out to be ineligible or would
cancel an equivalent amount of the Loan. Brazilian suppliers of equipment and
materials will be eligible for preference equal to the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay
for the importation, subject to a ceiling of 15%. Brazil has a well developed
civil works construction industry and all civil works contracts are expected
to be won by local contractors. Also, all equipment and materials contracts
are likely to be won by Brazilian firms or Brazilian subsidiaries of foreign
suppliers. During negotiations it w-s agreed that the foregoing procedures
will also be used for procurement uncer Loan 1009-BR.



14 -
Disbursement
5.13      The proceeds of the proposed loan would be made available to the
borrower for 60% of the latter's disbursements made after the date of the
loan signature under BNH sub-loans to COPASA for eligible subprojects, in-
cluding expenditures made by COPASA prior to this loan signature for a total
amount not exceeding US$1,000,000. Bank disbursements would be made against a
certificate of expenditure made by the Borrower for each subproject, the
detailed documentation of which would not be submitted for Bank review, but
would be retained by the beneficiary and made available for inspection during
the course of Project Supervision Missions.
Project Supervision and Technical Assistance
5.14      Review by Bank staff of the execution of subprojects would be
restricted to selected samples (see paragraph 5.07). After heavy initial
supervision by Bank staff during the first Bank loan, considerable improve-
ment has been made by BNH and COPASA staff in subprojects' preparation and
evaluation. Since COPASA will now stress its work in subprojects' exe-
cution, Bank staff should emphasize training of personnel from BNH and
COPASA in supervision of construction and disbursement.
5.15      The Bank's supervision ill Washington would include the review
of subprojects and progress reports, procurement documents and consultants'
reports. On visits to Brazil, Ban'k supervision missions besides review of
subprojects, procurement and disbursement documents, would analyze the effi-
ciency of the institutions, review progress made by consultants, visit
subproject sites, and review training of BNH and COPASA staff.
6. JUSTIF'ICATION
Project Justification
6.01      The proposed loan would assist the State of Minas Gerais in its
efforts to improve the standard of living of its citizens by increasing access
to public water and sewerage services. In doing so, the Government also hopes
to reduce the migration of the poor population to major metropolitan centers
in search of greater opportunities and better services.
6.02      To achieve the PLANASA objectives, BNH lends funds to State Water
Companies at different rates established on the basis of socioeconomic factors
(i.e. Sao Paulo receives funds at 7% interest, Minas Gerais at 4%, 1/ while
states in the Northeast pay 2%).  To ensure that the poor segments of the
population can be reached, tariff structure will be designed so that cross-
subsidization between consumers occurs.
1/   This interest rate, plus other source financing costs, raises the effec-
tive cost of money to COPASA to about 6%--see Annex 12.



- 15-
6.03      The subprojects tentatively identified for this loan:
(i) Emphasize investments in small communities and in low-income
areas of large centers which have poor or no water supply
facilities and little or no possibility of getting such
services except through this type of program;
(ii) Will be reviewed in accordance with the criteria dis-
cussed below so as to insure that the subprojects are
justified and that they will not jeopardize the financial
viability of the State Water Company.
6.04      Since the program is flexible and the subprojects are at various
stages of preparation, the economic rate of return for the Project cannot be
calculated. Subprojects accepted for financing under Loan 1009-BR have shown
economic rate of return estimates averaging 8%, thus higher than COPASA's cost
of capital.
Design and Selection Criteria
6.05      The criteria used for the design, evaluation and selection of
projects financed through Loan 1009-BR will be used for projects of the
proposed loan--with one major exception. That exception is the use of the
incremental financial rate of return (IFROR) as a cutoff criterion (projects
with negative IFROR were eliminated from Bank financing under Loan 1009-BR).
Experience gained in the review of projects during the first loan indicates
that smaller cities, in particular, often faLl to meet that standard not be-
cause the project is unduly costly, but because revenues derived from tariffs
set on the basis of consumers' ability to pay can result in a negative IFROR,
reflecting the low capacity of consumers to pay. On the other hand, a pro-
ject with a high IFROR may only demonstrate that the willingness to pay for
water is high (i.e., because such a project supplies large per capita volumes
of water to high-income families rather than the minimum per capita volume to
a larger number of low-income families). Thus the application of the .FROR
cutoff, as in the Minas Gerais I Loan, would risk the elimination of projects
where the low-payment capacity of the consumers, rather than an expensive
solution, causes a low or negative IFROR, and thereby undermines the objec-
tive of providing water supply to low-income consumers who cannot bear the
full cost of water service. A tariff based on the consumers' capacity to
pay compensates for such loss of revenues by charging higher rates to higher
income consumers.
6.06      The selection criteria were discussed and agreed upon during nego-
tiations. They consist of financial, economic and technical tests for each
subproject (or group of subprojects as in the case of the small communities
pilot project). These tests are as follows:
(i) least cost solutions based on appropriate engineering design
criteria would continue to be the basis for all subprojects;



- 16 -
(ii)  subprojects' construction would not cause the cash-flow of.COPASA
in any year to fall below that required by the revenue covenant;
(iii)  water supply subprojects would be eligible to be included in the
Project:
(a)  Communities with more than 20,000 inhabitants.  Whenever the
cash-flow of the system of which they form part is positive,
for the five-year period counted from the start of the amorti-
zation of the BNH sub-loan, or from three years after the
start of construction, whichever is earlier;
(b)  Communities with population between 3,000 and 20,000 inhabit-
ants. Whenever the average unit cost of the services (cubic
meter of water produced) to be provided by the system does not
exceed by more than 40% the then current average unit cost
of COPASA;
(c)  Communities with less than 3,000 inhabitants.  Whenever the
subproject has been designed in accordance with the agreed-
upon standards for small communities (see para. 5.02 and
5.03(i)).
6.07      The Bank, BNH, and COPASA would review all sewerage subprojects,
all water supply subprojects which do not meet the tests in 6.06, and all
water supply subprojects which are built in communities of more than 3,000
Inhabitants with a financial incremental rate of return lower than the cost of
funds to COPASA. These reviews would be at least: (i) a review of tariffs to
see if they could be increased or surcharges added; (ii) a review of operating
costs to see if they could be reduced; (iii) technical reviews to attempt to
reduce the scope of the project---and thus its costs as well as its operating
and financial costs; (iv) technical review to reduce the standards contained
in the project such as quantities/capita, pressures, etc.; (v) attempts to
secure municipal or regional grants for capital financing; and any other
criteria that could be made to increase revenues and/or decrease costs. If,
after such reviews, subprojects still do not meet the tests in 6.06, they
would not be included in the Project.
6.08      BNH procedures for project evaluation and approval have been fol-
lowed in preparing the general feasibility studles and have been accepted
by the Bank under Loan 1009-BR. The procedures could be greatly simplified
since a limited number of cities accounts for more than 50% of the incremen-
tal population to be served by 1980 and generates more than 70% of ti-. reve-
nues. Appropriate modifications are being implemented by BNH. Decentral-
izing of SFS subproject review and approval has already been undertaken, and
use of the criteria, described in para. 6.06, has been accepted by BNH.
6.09      All projects will be designed by consultant engineers or COPASA
staff in accordance with BNH technic-l guidelines accepted by the Bank under
the first loan. The guidelines ensure that projects are designed to satisfy



- 17 -
identified demands at least-cost and will provide water and sewerage services
in accordance with appropriate national standards. To verify compliance with
the guidelines and to assure that financial, economic and social objectives
are met, all projects will be evaluated by COPASA and BNH.
6.10      These procedures, then, will achieve both economic and social objec-
tives. On the economic side, projects will be at least-cost, and will satisfy
an identified demand. And in a social context, projects will service a large
number of consumers by virtue of low costs and a tariff structure matched to
the consumer's ability to pay. Since project acceptance will finally hinge
upon COPASA's financial viability, it is ensured that the maximum number of
low-income urban consumers will be served, but always commensurate with
COPASA's ability to raise revenues from the sale of water.
6.11      TJse of the described procedure and criteria by BNH and COPASA
permits the Bank to limit its project evaluation activities as described
in para 5.07.
7. FINANCES
7.01      This chapter analyzes the finances of both the Borrower and the
Beneficiary.
Borrower (BNH)
7.02      As a financial entity, BNH has ample  resources.  More than 40%
of its funds flow from the 8% of each month's payroll that employers
contribute to a National Indemnity Fund (FGTS). Somewhat less than 40%,
though growing In importance, is the interest and debt amortization from the
early years of loans made by BNH for low-income housing projects. Annexes 7
and 8 show the actual financial results of BNH for the years 1971 through
1974, and Annex 8 demonstrates their projections through 1978 for operating
income, expense, capital sources and applications.
7.03      BNH has expanded its loan portfolio from US$2 billion in 1971
to nearly US$6 billion in 1974, or 200% during this same period; amortization
of that portfolio has increased more than fourfold, from US$221 million to
US$907 million. Every loan made by BNH for housing and sanitation purposes is
fully guaranteed by the state government in which the project is located, or
by the bank or financing institution who relent the funds to the borrower.
BNH's net Internal cash generation has tripled from US$61 million in 1971 to
US$186 million in 1974, and its "operating ratio" has declined from r2% to 57%
in this same period. The pr[ncipal source of new funds, the National Indemnity
Fund, has more than doubled from US$716 million in 1971 to US$1.5 billion in
1974.
7.04      All of the BNH loan portfolio is made in value units of UPC.  These
values are readjusted quarterly by ai index used to revalue federal treasury



- 18 -
bonds, and in general terms reflect inflation. The index has historically
been higher than the devaluation of the cruzeiro in relation to the U.S.
dollar. For example, in 1974 the UPC increase was 30.9% versus a cruzeiro/
dollar devaluation of 19.5%. BNH's strong financial position remains assured
as long as the present loan indexing system is followed. BNH has agreed
during negotiations to continue sending to the Bank a copy of its annual
financial statements certified by qualified independent auditors.
7.05      BNH is concerned with the increase in construction costs and, in
discussions with Bank missions, has indicated that it is studying various al-
ternatives to stabilize prices of pipes and treatment plant equipment and/or
increase supplies in view of the massive, short-term demand generated by the
PLANASA program.
Beneficiary (COPASA)
7.06      COPASA, prior to June 1973, was a very small company (then known
as COMAG) operating water and sewerage systems which generated revenues of
approximately US$2 million. In that year, it absorbed the water and sewerage
systems of Belo Horizonte and Contagem, which quadrupled COPASA's revenues,
but brought with it financial problems. Additionally, COPASA has signed the
PLANASA agreement, and will, by 1980, become a very large company facing an
enormous capital expansion program in a brief time-frame.
Profitability
7.07      During the course of 1974 and 1975, COPASA's profitability (see
Annex 10) has been reduced by a series of special non-recurring factors.
These are:
(i)  A substantial cost, nearly one million dollars, has been
Incurred with respect to organizing the administration of
the company in order to cope with the rapid expansion of a
geographically widely dispersed operation.
(ii)  Concurrent with (i) was the staffing of the organization
created, initially in the project development and implemen-
tation staff (expenses of which are basically capitalized),
and additionally in pure staff areas such as budgeting,
training, legal, commercial control, regional offices, and
others which had not previously existed. These costs will
be reducing, on a per cubic meter of water sold basis, as
projects are implemented and house connections are made.
(iii)  The 1975 necessity of writing-off nearly one million
dollars of uncollectible accounts receivable, mostly in
Belo Horizonte, (from the 1973 and 1974 periods) primarily
because of poor control over data processing input/output
and the lack of a coordinated cut-off program. This is
now under control.



- 19 -
7.08      In addition to the above-mentioned special non-recurring factors,
COPASA is confronted with a series of general problems common to most state
water companies, which problems affect both its profitability and its finan-
cial viability. The more important of these are:
(i) The company does not have autonomy over its tariff schedules.
Each tariff increase proposal must be submitted to a federal
inter-ministerial price control board, CIP. This council
has the authority to approve, modify, reject, and, through
administrative measures, delay responses to any proposal.
It is essential that COPASA continue to make applications
for adequate tariff increases throughout the plan period
to enable it to cover the automatically price-level indexed
costs described below.
(ii) Wage levels are adjusted annually by federal indexing, and
frequently are affected by interim indexing whenever the
Federal Government deems this necessary, as they did in
December 1974.
(iii)  Debt financing is also price-level indexed, for which, the
Federal Treasury Bond index is used. Interest on this debt
thus becomes an increasingly serious problem for profitability,
and full debt service for financial viability.
7.09      COPASA management has taken action on several fronts in order
to achieve a profitable and viable operation. Its accounts were so unre-
liable that for 1973 and 1974 the external auditors refused to give any
opinion on the company's financial statements (see 4.12), thus indicat-
ing a very poor management information base. COPASA has instituted a coor-
dinated shut-off campaign in Belo Horizonte, turned over to the mayor of
that city the receivables for periods prior to 1973 that COPASA had been
unable to identify and/or collect, regularized and modified, where required,
all input/output systems to the data processing center, established systems
checks in that center to avoid a repetition of previous problems, and recoded
all customer accounts under an expandable system which also permits its
use as a data base code for other company operating information. Their
external auditors have certified their financial statements in 1975, and
management now has an efficient information system.
7.10      In addition, COPASA management clarified organizational oroblems
in 1975, with the help of Booz, Allen, Hamilton, Intl., and has full control
of all inventory locations (46). This problem was organizational to he
extent of who was In control, and additionally was systematized so that
materials and equipment were considered as "used" whenever they left the
central warehouse. This system has also been rectified by establishing a
system for project open inventories as well as operating unit open inven-
tories.



- 20 -
7.11      Tariff increases (see para. 7.08-i) have been tackled in two ways.
In 1975, COPASA was granted a 28% average increase effective January 1, 1975,
and a further 20% average increase effective October 1, 1975. Working with a
Bank designed program which provides a basis for simulating a progresive
tariff structure with income distribution patterns (see Annex 14), COPASA
submitted to CIP (see para. 7.08-il) a request to be permitted to adopt a
multi-rate progressive tariff schedule in place of the two rate system pre-
viously in use. This proposal, approved in March, achieved a 22% average
increase. A further proposal is anticipated in July 1976. On the other hand,
sewerage tariff studies have never been undertaken. At negotiations, COPASA
agreed to maintain the water supply tariff structure presently in effect and
to prepare terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and then complete a
sewerage tariff study by December 31, 1977 with a view to implementing the
recommendations thereof. Also, during negotiations, the Federal Government
has agreed to provide or cause COPASA to be provided through the Borrower with
such funds as are needed whenever COPASA sources of financing are believed to
be inadequate to carry out the Project, and to take all necessary actions to
enable COPASA to maintain an adequate financial position.
7.12      To increase volume sold, COPASA has initiated a campaign of new
connections that is projected to substantially increase overall revenues
in 1976 by nearly 40%. This campaign began in September 1975, and has
permitted the company to triple the previous monthly connection rates. The
campaign was initially directed towards the smaller cities in COPASA, and
is now being used in the Belo Horizonte metropolitan area where expanded
distribution systems are nearing completion.
Financial Viability
7.13      In order to achieve the PLANASA-MG program goals by 1980 and be
financially viable, COPASA must integrate into its consolidated operations
a balance of the major urban/industrial centers with small communities
since the latter are considered to be marginally viable at best, and more
likely to incur cash deficits during this period. Only nine of tbese major
cities have been brought into COPASA and are included in its investment
program; on the basis that one or more of the following three factors will
take place, a further fifteen could enter COPASA:
(i)  that the national water tariff and transfer of water rights
bill, proposed by BNH, will become law during 1977;
(ii)  that due to those cities no longer having access to federal,
state, and regional grant funds, they will join
PLANASA-MG of their own volition in order to get the funds
required for sewerage treatment works which all need, and
for expansion of their existing systems which had been grant
financed by one of those agencies in prior years;
(iii) that some will join after the 1976 municipal elections.



- 21 -
COPASA is in negotiations with ten additional large centers and feels that
the remaining cities will join during 1977/78 for the reasons described
above.
7.14      The balance sheet (Annex 9) and the cash flow projections (Annex 11)
are both based upon 1974 and 1975 audited data, and are projected until 1980
by taking into consideration the overall investment program (Annex 5) and
assuming 100% financing of that program through BNH/FAE sources. Specific
detailed assumptions used in the projections are provided in Annex 13. As a
monitoring or earlywarning device, a semi-annual cash flow and appropriate
financial projections to be prepared by COPASA for a five-year period was
agreed upon during negotiations to forestall the possibility of simply adding
further investments of small marginal communities which would achieve one goal
of PLANASA-MG, but could conceivably create financial instability through
addition of negative cash-flow small communities. This is an essential
feature of this program, since by 1979, 82% of net fixed assets and 76% of
total assets will be represented by the price-level indexed long-term debt
described in 7.08 (iii).
Revenue Covenant
7.15      COPASA's cash flow, Annex 11, demonstrates that their projected
revenues are adequate to cover operating, maintenance, administrative and
debt service costs as well as increases in working capital requirements. In
addition to that, Loan 1009-BR required that COPASA's cash generation also
provide a "cash" reserve of 1% of the value of gross fixed assets, revalued
annually by the Federal indices published for revaluation and income tax
purposes. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the same reve-
nue covenant would be continued for this loan. Even though COPASA did not
attain that objective in 1975, projections indicate that it should attain it
in 1976 and thereafter. This revenue covenant should enable the company to
generate an annual financial rate of return of approximately 6% or better on
its revalued fixed assets during the project period.
8.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      The following agreements were reached during negotiations:
(a) From the Federal Government that it will:
(i) provide or cause COPASA to be provided, through the
Borrower, with such funds as are needed whenever COPASA
sources of financing are believed to be inadequate to
carry out the Project (para. 7.11);
(ii) take all necessary actions to enable COPASA to comply with
its financial performance requirements (para. 7.11);



- 22-
(b) From the Banco Nacional da Habitacao (BNH) and the Companhia de
Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA) that:
(i)  subprojects will be prepared in accordance with agreed
upon guidelines and reviewed in accordance with agreed
upon criteria (paras. 6.06, 6.07 and 6.08);
(ii)  the Bank will be given a reasonable opportunity to comment
on all subprojects' feasibility studies (para. 5.07);
(c)  From the Banco Naciona:L da Habitacao (BNH) that:
(i)  the Bank will be given a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views on BNH/SFS organization guidelines and rules to be
used for purposes of PLANASA (para. 3.01);
(ii)  it would send annually to the Bank a copy of its financial
statements certified by independent auditors (para. 7.04);
(d)  From the Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais (COPASA) that
it will:
(i)  send annually to the Bank a copy of its financial statements
certified by independent auditors (para. 4.12);
(ii)  maintain an adequate financial position (para. 4.15);
(iii) maintain the water supply tariff structure presently in
effect (para. 7.11);
(iv)  revalue its fixed assets at least once a year and update
every six months its five-year cash-flow and financial
projections (para. 7.14 and 7.15);
(v)  carry out a study of its tariffs for sewage collection
(para. 7.11);
(vi)  operate such data processing equipment required for its
operations (para. 4.09);
(vii) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on any
substantial reorganization of COPASA (para. 4.01).



ANNEX 1
Page 1
THE EXECUTING AGENCY
FROM LOAN 1009-BR, UPDATED
The National Housing Bank (BNH)
1.        The National Housing Bank (BNH) will be the executing agency of
the Bank loan. BNH was established by Federal Law 4380 of August 21,
1964, and since 1967 has been under the Ministry of the Interior; it has
juridical personality, its own capital and assets, is tax exempt and is
administratively and financially independent. Its major activities have
been to finance national housing programs and, since 1968, national sanita-
tion. BNH does not operate as a commercial or savings bank.
2.        BNff is administered by a Board of Directors (Conselho de Admini-
stracao) and an Executive Committee (Diretoria). The Board of Directors is
composed of the President, nine counselors and the seven members of the Exe-
cutive Committee. The Executive Committee is composed of the President and
six Directors, all appointed by the President of the Republic of Brazil and
approved by the Federal Senate. BNH has eleven regional agencies (Delegacias)
for its activities at the state level. In early 1976 decisions concerning
routine operations were delegated to Regional Credit Committees (COCRER).
3.        BNH's commercial auditors, Loudon, Blomquist and Co., in their
1974 annual report, have made a series of recommendations which should im-
prove BNH's control over its financial activities and its internal auditing.
BNH's finances are discussed in Chapter 7.
Water and Sewerage Activities
4.        BNH's funds are applied to the water supply and sewerage sector
through a system called Sistema Financeiro do Saneamento (SFS). BNH loans
are made to its financial agents in the States, who then relend the funds to
the State water companies. Debt service payments are guaranteed by _  State
Government. The State Government funds are made under the form of grants,
and deposited in a State Bank account, called Fundos de Aguas e Esgotos
(FAE), before being lent to the State Water Company. FAE constitutes a re-
volving fund which is continually replenished as it is used, either by fur-
ther appropriations from the State Government, or by the debt service
payments of the State Water Company. BNH and FAE funds are provided for
each individual subproject. In Minas Gerais the State Bank 1/ is both the
administrative agency for FAE and the financial agent for BNH and the State
Government.
5.        Under the SFS system each state must enter into an agreement with
BNH (PLANASA Agreement) to be elegible for BNH financing of any water supply
and sewerage work in the State. The PLANASA Agreement (based on a water
supply and sewerage prefeasibility study of the State prepared by BNH):
1/   Banco de Credito Real.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(a) specifies the PLANASA objectives in the State, the basic
financial and economic criteria, and parameters on which
these objectives have been set up;
(b)  stipulates the financial participation of BNH and the State
in the program; and
(c)  compels the State Government, through the State Water Company,
to prepare a Global Feasibility Study.
6.        The Global Feasibility Study is a detailed program of water and
sewerage works to be built in the State to fulfill the PLANASA objectives.
It establishes the sequencing of the subprojects and the level of tariffs
necessary to provide the State Water Company with adequate revenues. The
program is based on individual feasibility studies made for each subproject
concurrently with the Global Feasibility Study. In the first stage, and as
a first priority, BNH has limited the scope of the Global Feasibility Studies
to water schemes only.
7.        State Water Companies are responsible for the preparation of the
Global Feasibility Studies, for the preparation of each individual subproject
feasibility study, and for constructing and operating the water supply and
sewerage systems. They use consultants' services for project preparation.
In each state, project design and construction are supervised for BNH by
its Technical Supervisory Agency (O.T.). 1/
Water Supply and Sewerage Department
8.        In September 1967, BNH created a Department (Superintendencia)
responsible for its water supply and sewerage activities. This Department
is headed by a Director (Superintendente), and is composed of three divisions
(Assesorias): analysis and programming, technical control, and finances
(see Chart 7952). The Director is the executive head.
9.        The Department has a staff of young sanitary engineers and econo-
mists, highly motivated by the PLANASA social objectives and competitive
salaries, fully conscious of the.r responsibilities and hard workers. They
constitute an excellent team which already has succeeded in satisfactorily
managing the previous BNH water supply and sewerage programs, the IDB and AID
loans throughout Brazil and the launching of PLANASA in 1971-1972. However,
1/   Orgao Tecnico.  In Minas Gerais the O.T. is the Companhia Estadl'al de
Tecnologia de Saneamento Basico e de Controle de Poluicao das Aguas
(CETESB). CETESB Head Otffices are in Sao Paulo. It is a well estab-
lished and respected entity with major functions of water pollution and
quality control, training, preparation of standards for water supply and
sewerage works, and as well as technical agent of BNH for PLANASA in the
States of Minas Gerais, Sao Pauio and Rio.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
they have limited experience in dealing with a program as enormous as that of
PLANASA. BNH's management is conscious of this problem and has stated that it
would like to take advantage of the Bank's experience to improve the Department
organization and efficiency. In the following paragraphs, the Department weak-
nesses are indicated and specific recommendations are made to elimitate them.
These recommendations have been accepted by BNH management which already has
taken steps towards the improvement of its organization and its information
system by decentralizing some of the Department responsibilities and func-
tions to BNH's regional agencies.
10.       The Analysis and Programming Division has the following functions:
(a) preparation of a prefeasibility study for each state;
(b) review and approval of the State's Global Feasibility Studies;
(c) review and approval of each individual subproject feasibility
study.
Almost all Global Feasibility studies have been prepared. There exist guide-
lines on how to carry out the studies and how they should be improved. BNH
and State Water Companies' staff and consultants lack sufficient experience.
This situation is serious especially because more than 4,000 subprojects are
expected to be reviewed and approved by BNH between 1973 and 1980.
11.       The Technical Control Division supervises the construction of the
water supply and sewerage works in each state, provides operational and main-
tenance consulting services to State Water Companies and supervises the 0.T.
At present supervision of construction is deficient due to lack of sufficient
number of experienced staff in BNH and the absence of standards for water-
works operations.
12.       The Division of Finances authorizes disbursements from BNII and
FAE and supervises the financial performances of the State Water Compa,iies.
Disbursements of BNH and FAE loans are made through the State Bank against
O.T. approved bills paid by the State Water Company.  In the case of
materials, the approved bills are paid directly by BNH and FAE through the
State Bank. These operations are satisfactorily managed.
13.       In December 1971, BNH created eleven regional offices for its water
supply and sewerage department. One year later the offices' responsibilities
were established and in 1973, the Department enacted extensive guidelines
and manuals for their operation. The offices' functions include the review
of the State's sanitation programs, the control of loan agreements between
BNH and the state water supply companies, the updating of the physical and
financial project schedules, the control of the regional FAE's and O.T.'s
performance, the supervision of the state water supply companies' operations,
of the technical assistance provided to these companies and of their training
program. These offices are headed by young and enthusiastic sanitary engi-
neers. This decentralization is good and should enable BNH to improve its



ANNEX 1
Page 4
relationship with its Borrowers. However, similar to the whole PLANASA
program, the lack of experienced manpower to implement the guidelines entails
a certain but acceptable risk in their execution. 1/
14.       Reporting on operations of the state water companies is poor.
Guidelines for reporting are being studied. So far, the information sent
to BNH varies in quality.  In early 1973, BNH requested PAHO to identify
the areas where technical assistance is needed. PAHO submitted its conclu-
sions in August 1973, and in November 1975 a contract for management assist-
ance was signed between these two entities. 2/ PAHO's intervention would
focus on the design of various information systems (programmation of works,
accounting, billing and collecting, etc.) to be implemented by the State
Water Companies.
15.       To help assure effective overall management of the BNH Department
in charge of the water supply and sewerage activities, and through this depart-
ment, Bank control of Project execution, assurances were obtained from BNH
during negotiations that it would continue to exchange views with the Bank 3/
on the organization of its Department responsible for PLANASA and the rules
and guidelines which will be established for PLANASA.
1/   See Section 3, Paragraph 3.03, and Recommendation 8.01(a)(1).
2/   This report was being formalized in October 1975.
3/   See paragraph 3.01, The Borrower.



AiNU 2
BRAZIL
UtUAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE -ROJECT II - COPASA
PEPOL T POPULJWTION
Population
No.          Cities                     1975
01.  Alterosa                           3,721
02.  Canaos                               837
03.  Cabo Verde                         3,662
04.  Caldas                             3,757
05.  Cordislanois                       1,419
06.  Monte Belo                         3,321
07.  Berrania                           2,751
08.  Jordania                           5,143
09,  Machacalis                         5,144
10.  Minas Novas                        2,519
11.  Agua Comprida                      1,032
12.  Conquista                          2,802
13.  Gurinhata                          1,107
14.  Pedrinopolis                         910
15.  Perdizes                           1,755
16.  Pirajuba                           1,509
17.  Sao Francisco Sales                2,5i8
18.  Varissimo                            853
19.  Itapagipe                          4,308
20.  Cassiterita                        1,730
21.  Igarape                            3,681
22.  Santa Rosa da Serro                1,521
23.  Tiros                              2,839
24.  Alvarenga                          1,788
25.  Bom Jesus do Galho                 4,453
26.  Corrego Novo                       1,059
27.  Divino das Larsojeiras             2,119
28.  Pisdado da Ponto Nova              1,900
29.  Engenheiro Caldas                  3,868
30.  Fernandes Tourinho                 1,204
31.  Itabirinha de Mantena              3,569
32.  Itanhomi                           3,580
33.  Santa Rita do Itueto                 561
34.  Sao Joao do Oriente                2,752
35.  Sobralia                           1,940
36.  Tarumirim                          4,231
37.  Tumiritinga                        2.135
38.  Brasopolis                         5,032
39.  Extrema                            2,896
40.  Maria da Fe                        3,889
41.  Eugenopolis                        3,228
42.  Laranjel                           2,302
43.  Pequeri                            2,495
44.  Braunas                            1,325
45.  Coluna                             1,873
46.  Dom Joaquim                        2,111
47.  Materlandia                          999
48.  Paulistas                          1,349
49.  Sao Joao Evangelista               4,597
50.  Sao Pedro do Suacui                1,425
51.  Sao Sebastiao Maranhao             1,808
52.  Santa Maria do Itabira             2,371
53.  Sep Domigos do Preta               4,407
54.  Sao Jose do Goiabal                1,906
55.  Sao Pedro dos Ferros               4,295
56.  Menge                              2,940
57.  Piranga                            2,480
58.  Capetinga                          2,402
59.  Itamogi                            3,071
60.  Itaipe                               943
61.  Ladainha                           2,847
62.  Nova Cruzeiro                      3,696
63.  Cajuri                               655
T O T A L S                     161,340
January, 1976



ANNEX 2A
Page 1
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
PILOT PROJECT FOR SMALL COMMUNITIES
1.   Introduction
COPASA, as the executing agency of the PLANASA program in the
state of Minas Gerais, should develop water supply systems and sewerage
services for 722 municipalities. Among the cities to be served, those
with populations below 5,000 inhabitants are sometimes not economically
feasible, due to the small population to be served and the design para-
meters used to develop water systems in larger cities.
For the above reasons, COPASA has developed a pilot project
to serve 63 communities. Depending upon the results of this pilot
project, expansion to cover approximately 200 cities by 1980 is possible.
2.   Objectives
This program will serve 63 communities with populations below
5,000 inhabitants, based on three main objectives:
(a) To develop guidelines, norms and policies to be used in
future similar programs.
(b)  To establish general policies related to basic sanitation.
To look after an optimization of resources, minimizing
costs and maximizing results throu6h a Model of Regional
Polarization.
(c)  To develop and subsequently implement efficient social
assistance in the cities:
-    to make the population conscious of the importance of
the service which is going to be given;
-    to develop a sanitary education among the population,
promoting a rational utilization of the services to
be implemented; and
-    to achieve effective community participation in the
activities of the system implementation.



ANNEX 2A
Page 2
3.   The Conception of the Program
3.1       Characteristics--to develop the program efficiently, it will be
necessary to simplify the elaboration, review and approval of the projects
as well as to define the financial procedure for contracts, the implementa-
tion of the works, and the administration of the implemented systems.
In addition to the points just mentioned, special attention will
be given to the program's social impact by making it clear to the community
that the main objective of the program, to supply water, directly benefits
the health of the population.
3.2       Development--A timetable has been proposed, which defines the
program's various stages and their sequence. Responsibility for the develop-
ment of this program has been delegated to the "Superintendencia de Expansao."
3.3       Selection of the cities--Two premises govern the selection and
organization of cities in the program:
-    To include those communities which already have a law
of consent with COPASA or communities which have shown
interest in such an agreement.
-    To group the cities into regions, each group headed by
cities already operated by COPASA. These cities will
act as centers for the development of each region.
Other factors to be considered in selecting communities include: the neces-
sity of a permanent water supply in a community, accessibility to the city,
availability of electricity, favorable topographic characteristics, and
the possibility of water supply through groundwater.
3.4 Resources
3.41 Administrative
COPASA has developed an organization to administer and coordinate
this program through the Divisao de Administracao de Projetos (DVAP), a
division of the Superintendencia de Expansao (SPEX) which will have the
responsibility for meeting the established targets.
3.42 Financial
In order to ensure the program's efficiency by means of high pro-
ductivity and flexible operations, COPASA has developed a financial equation
related to administrative, human and technical parameters. Specific financ-
ial programs cover the following activities:



ANNEX 2A
Page 3
Drilling of Deep Wells
Materials
Preliminary Services
Community Action
Development of Projects and Topography
Prefabricated Reservoirs
Compact Water Treatment Plants
Civil Works Execution
3.43 Technicians
The availability of technicians is obviously of basic importance
to the program's development since they will make the final decisions. The
problem of management and personnel is discussed earlier, paras. 4.08-4.10.
MODEL FOR PROJECTS PRESENTATION FOR SMALL CITIES
To promote economy in project design, construction and maintenance
and to facilitate operation of the systems, projects will be standardized in
their design parameters. To this end, design criteria have been established
for the presentation of projects. The following is a model for such a presen-
tation:
1.   GENERAL
1.1  Historical and political-administrative situation.
1.2  Social-cultural situation.
1.3  Availability of working personnel.
1.4  Availability of materials.
1.5  Localization of the city.
1.6  Accessibility anc communications.
1.7  Availability of resources and equipment.
1.8  Climate.
1.9  Topographic and urban characteristics.
1.10 Sanitary conditions.
1.11 Electricity.
1.12 Economic activities.
2.   DESCRIPTION OF EXISTING SYSTEM
Description of the existing system, with the latest possib e
data, including maps, plans, pictures and topographic surveys. Details
of those parts of the systems, that could be used in the new system,
especially the distribution system and house connections.



ANNEX 2A
Page 4
3.   DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED SYSTEM
3.1 Population studies--to be developed by COPASA.
3.2 Calculation of water demands
-    per capita consumption:  100 I/c/d
-    coefficient of maximal day consumption - K1 = 1.1
-    coefficient of maximal hour consumption - K2 = 1.2
-    population to be supplied: 80% of estimated population
at the end of the design period.
-    design period:  10 years
-    Project stages:  The projects will have two stages:
the first from 1976 to 1980, the second from 1976-1985.
3.3 Source of water - Water intake
A preliminary hydrogeological study should be developed by
COPASA. Based upon the results of this study, two options are available:
-    Groundwater--This alternative, whenever possible, should
be selected and the installation should be entirely
automatic.
-    Surface water--The most simple water intake should be
analyzed.
3.4 Water Conduction
-    Groundwater--Water conduction should be done by
direct pumping through a pump installed in the
well. All the electro-mechanical designs should be
developed by the personnel of COPASA. The same
personnel should be responsible for the instal-
lation and maintenance of such equipment.
-    Surface Water--Water conduction should be designed
in accordance with local characteristics. Surface
water intake with pumping stations could have a
reserve unit.



ANNEX 2A
Page 5
3.5 Treatment
-    Groundwater--Should have a minimum treatment for
disinfection with chlorine or chlorinated compounds.
-    Surface water--Type of treatment should be designed
in accordance with the physical and chemical characteristics
of the raw water.
3.6 Reservoirs
-    Reservoirs should be standardized.  For surface tanks,
the volume should be 1/4 to 1/3 of daily demand. For
elevated tanks the volume should be 1/6 of daily demand.
3.7 Distribution
-    The distribution system should be designed in the most
simple way, depending upon local and topographic features.
In the distribution design, pressure verifications should
be made only on the highest and lowest points of the city.
a)  Design parameters
consumption per capita            g=100 1/cap/day
average annual consumption        Q=0.00116 1/cap/sec
coefficient for maximal day and
hour                          K=R1 x R2 = 1.32
consumption for design            K=K.Q=0.00153 1/cap/sec
maximum static pressure            7OmH20
minimum static pressure             5mH20
minimum diameter (nominal)         25 mm
consumption by connection         gl=5 x Q=0.00765 1/s
b)  Localization and arrangements of distribution networks.
The program presents norms for localization of the
pipes and the different arrangements for the distribution
system.
4.   House Connections--They will obey the existing norms of the COPASA
adapted to a program for small communities.
5.   Project Costs--The different costs of the project should be
presented in a simple and uniform way.
6.   Specifications--Uniform specifications approved by COPASA should
be followed.



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
38 CITIES POPULATION 1975-1980
WATER SUPPLY
No.         Cities                    Popu-           Popu-           % Popu-            Popu-           Popu-           % Popu-
lation          lation           lation           lation          lation            lation
Served           Served                           Served            Served
1975            1975             1975             1980            1980              1980
01.  Agua Boa                          2978             500              17               3650            2920               80
02.  Aracuai                          10695            3610              34              12460            9968               80
03.  Barbacena                        67801           27120              40              79581           63664               80
04.  Bela Vista de Minas               7207            4324              60               9736            7789               80
05.  Brumadinho                        7952            4771              60              12054            9643               80
06.  Buritiz                           2993                0              0               4549            3636               80
07.  Canapolis                         4041                0              0               4833            3866               80
08.  Carandai                          8314             3325             40              11961            9568               80
09.  Caxambu                          15113             6045             40              17059           13647               80
10.  Conceicao R. Verde                5877            3526              60               6448            5158               80
11.  Coronel Fabriciano /1            29787           11915              40              37759           30207               80
12.  Coronel Murta                     2658            1500              56               3037            2458               80
13.  Estrela Do Sul                    2618             1570             60               3115            2492               80
14.  Francisco Dumont                   825                0              0                814              651              80
15.  Itaobim                          10149                0              0              14918           11934               80
16.  Iturama                           9635                0              0              17840           14272               80
17.  Lavras                           43342           15169              35              52934           42347               80
18.  Mendes Pimentel                   2298                0              0               2664             2131              80
19.  Montesclaros                    116934            60555             52             164003          114830               70
20.  Mutum                             2000                0              0               2500             2000              80
21.  Padre Paraiso                     7209              725             10               9847             7877              80
22.  Pedra Azul                       12855            -2100             16              14910            11928              80
23.  Piedade R. Grande                  1819            1110             61               2089             1671              80
24.  Pocos de Caldas                  65691            32845             50              83236            66589              80
25.  Planura                           6812                0              0               9115             7292              80
26.  Raposos                          10080             2657             26              11050             8840              80
27.  Rio Casca                         6879             4092             60               8008             6406              80
28.  Rio Piracicaba                    9563             4000             42              14167            11334              80
29.  Rio Vermelho                      2314             1500             65               2607             2086              80
30.  Sabara                           25558             8499             33              34940            27952              80
31.  Santa M. Salto                     2629               0              0               3612             2889              80
32.  Santana Vargem                     127S             575             45               1392             1114              80
33.  Serro                              5177            2700             52               5387             4309              80
34.  S. Joao Nepomuceno                12929            5172             40              14361            11489              80
35.  S. Lourenco                      20138             8055             40              22375            17900               80
11.  Timoteo 1i                       36782            14713             40              45220            36176              80
36.  Uba                              33364            25023             75              30949            33132              80
37.  Virginopolis                      3000             2000             67               3600             2800              80
38.  Visc. Rio Branco                 14480             5792             40              15263            12210              80
Totals                     631774          265488             42              794043          625175               79
=====Z ======1==976 S = = =   = =    =      =     -==
May, 1976



ANNEX 4
BiAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
FOREIGN EXCHANGE COMPONENT IN LOCAL PURCHASES
1, _                       2              3            4 = 2 x 3
% of Foreign    Weight of        % Foreign
Cost in       Element in      Exchange in
Element                    Element         Project      Local Purchase
1.   Earthwork                     40             5.40            2.16
2.   Concrete                      30            11.26            3.38
3.   Form Work                     30              3.22           0.97
4.   Pipe - Cast Iron              80             6.36            5.09
5.   Pipe - Asbestos Cem.          30             10.34           3.10
6.  Pipe - PVC                     60             12.99           7.79
7.   Pumping Unit                  50              1.88           0-94
8.   Treatment Plant               80              3.10           2.48
9.   Connections                   40              4.14           1.66
10.   Electrical Inst.              30              3.13           0.94
11.   Lining                        30              2.96           0.89
12.   Compaction                    40             2.88            1.15
13.  Asphalt Paving                 50             4.18            2.09
14.   Preliminary Work              15              5.05           0.78
15.   Labor                          -             23.11              -
'O. .00         33 .42
The above data was developed from a COPASA study of 10 completed water
supply projects. This study:
(1)   Developed the fifteen elements making up the total (Column 1).
(2)   Determined the weight (Column 3) of each element to the total
cost of the 10 projects.
Judgement, based upon experience, was used for the "import
content" of all the factors.
May 1 976



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
CONPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE NINAS GERAIS. S.A. (COPASA)
INVESTMENT PROGRAM
Population                                    Investment Program in UPC 2/(000)
Total
No. of     Urban           Well Served I/                                                          Total Bank
Subproiects   1975            1975     1979            1975      1976     1977     1978      1979      Program
1. Water Supply - Bank Participation
Loan 1009                                                                 38       2494             937     2759             100     2679      1933      233         -        4945
This Loan                                                                102        792             270      776               -      1145     1300     1855      1447        5747
Sub-Total Bank Participation                                          140       3286            1207     3535             100     3824      3233     2088     1447        10692
2. Sewerage - Bank Participation
Loan 1009                                                                  5       1930             900     2250               -       548      226         -        -         774
This Loan                                                                  6         _   (in above data)      -                          -      874      838       533        2245
Sub-Total Bank Participation                                           11       1930             900     2250               -      548      1100      838       533        3019
3.  Bank Participation Total                                                                                                        100      4372     4333     2926      1980       13711
4.  Projects Not in Bank Program                                                 69        NA              NA        NA            2561       436      439      1366     1702         6504
5.  Total Investment Program                                                                                                       2661      4808     4772      4292     3682        20215
6. Financing of Above:
6.1 Bank Participation
6.11  BANK Loan 1009-40%                                                                                                   40      1291      864       93         -        2288
6.12  This Loan-30%                                                                                                         -       344      652      808       594        2398
6.12  BNh                                                                                                                  10       551      651      562       396         2170
6.13  FAE                                                                                                                  50      2186     2166     1463       990         6855
6.2   Non-Bank Projects
6.21 BNH                                                                                                                 1281       218      219       683      851         3252
6.22 FAE                                                                                                                 1280       218      220       683      851         3252
In Millions of US Dollars
7.  IBRD Financing in US$ (Millions)
Annual Base Expenditure Loan 1009-BR                                                                                          0.6     19.0    12.7        1.4         -        33.7
This Loan                                                                                                                       -      5.1       9.6     11.9      8.8         35.4
Price Contingency 3/ 1009-BR                                                                                                 0.3       0.6       1.1      0.3         -         2.3
This Loan                                                                                                                       -      0.2       0.9      1.8       1.7         4.6
Total Annual Coat                                                                                                         0.9      24.9     24.3      15.4     10.5         76.0
From Loan 1009-BR                                                                                                             0.9     19.6      13.8      1.7         -        36.0
From This Loan                                                                                                                  -      5.3      10.5     13.7     10.5         40.0
1/ Population "well served" is defined as per capita daily preduction at project levels.
2/ UPC = Unidade Padrao de Capital - a quarterly index, published by the Ministry of Planning; used to revalue BNH loans.  Above-IUPC = CR$125.68 = US$14.75
3/ Price contingency - reflects the difference between internal inflation (UPC/CR$) and external devaluation (US$/CRS) relationship.
May, 1976



ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SBWERAGE PROJECT II
IBRD LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
LOAN 1009-BR                            SECOND LOAN
IBRD Fiscal Year   Amount Disbursed   Cumulative         Amount Disbursed    Cumulative
and Quarter      at End of Quarter  Disbursements      at End of Quarter   Disbursements
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - IN US$ MILLIONS - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
1976
December 31, 1975         0.9             0.9
March 31, 1976                            0 0.9
June 30, 1976             3,5             4.4
1 977
September 30, 1976        4.2             8.6                  1.6                1.6
December 31 , 1976        4.1            12.7                  1.6                3.2
March 31, 1977            4.0            16.7                   2.1               5.3
June 30, 1977             4.0            20.7                   2.1               7.4
1978
September 30, 1977        4.o            24.7                   2.1               9.5
December 31, 1977         4.1            28.8                   2.1              11.6
March 31, 1978            4.1            32.9                   3.1              14.7
June 30, 1978             3.1            36.0                  3.1               17.8
1979
September 30, 1978                                              3.1              20.9
December 31, 1978                                               3.1              24.0
March 31, 1979                                                  2.9              26.9
June 30, 1979                                                   2.9              29.8
1980
September 30, 1979                                              3.0              32.8
December 31, 1979                                               3.0              35.8
March 31, 1980                                                  2.1              37.9
June 30, 1980                                                   2.1              40.0
NOTE: The above allows a time-delay of 5 months from COPASA's expenditures (Annex 5)
to Bank reimbursement of BNH in order to cover document submission, and
mailing time.



ANNEX 7
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT II
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
BALANCE SHEET STATEMENTS
A u d i t e d                          Not  Audited
Year Ending December 31                 1971            1972            i27l            1974           1975
-    - - -US$ Million                       - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - -
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Banks                        4.4              9.6             6.6             8.2             9.6
Treasury Bonds                        73.3            56.7            56.3            92.6           121.9
Other Accounts                         5               1.1             0.9             0.9             1.2
7- _67.4                        63.8           101.7           132.7
Long Terr. Receivables
Housing Loans                     1,545.3         2,304.2          3,326.7         4,594.5         5,871.0
Treasury Bonds                      203.8            528.1           761.1         1,062.3         1.130.7
Mortgages                           249.8              7.3             0.8             0.4             -
Other Investments                    15.2             18.8            40.3           113.1           296.6
Collecting Agents - I.N.P.S.           7.7             2.8             2.3             0.9             -
Property for Resale                   5.0            10.3             12.9            16.8            20.5
Other Accounts                        1.6                9             6.1             8.3            49.0
2 02 .                          4.,150.2                        7,367.5
Fixed Assets
Land and Buildings                   14.0             19.0            22.9            25.3            38.1
Eouipment and Installations           1.8              2.1             2.8             3.2             3.2
Other Fixed Assets                    0.8              1.2             1.6             1               2.1
22.3            27.3
Accumulated Depreciation              (1.4)           (2.2)           LL 4            (4.              (6-5)
1T-2            20.1            23.9            26.0 _3°         9
Other Assets
Prepaid Insurance                     0.1              0.6             0.1              -             35.1  1/
Material in Transit                   0.1              0.8             0.2             0.1
Interest R,c. on Treasury Bonds        -               -                -              0.5
0.2                             0.3             0.9_         -35.1-
Total Assets                  2.127.2         2               4,23             5,92h.6         __
LIABILrrIES
Current Liabilities
Entities of the National
Housing System (Deposits)           26.1            64.5             15.0           111.7            146.0
Sundry Creditors                       8.3             9.2            16.2            19.2             34.2
Long Term Debt                                                          61.2           130.9
Employees' Indemnity Fund         1,741.5         2,379.5          3,373.3         4,424.7         5,337.7
BNH Housing Bonds                     31.2            35.4            36.3            37.8             36.2
Foreign Loans:
I.D.B. (IDB/BNH 104/SF-BR)         18.9            18.0            17.4             16.6
I.D.B. (IDB/BNH 296/SF-BR)           -              3.0             8.0             14.1             79.5  2/
A.I.D.                             10.2            15.8             19.4            29.8
I.B.R.D.                             -              -
Miscellaneous                       0.2             o 3                                             476.7  3/
1.802.0                         3.454.4         4,523.0          5,9301
Other Liabilities
Unallocated Collections and
Repayments                         12.0            16.0             14.3             4.7              -
Deferred Income                        -             13               11               89               -
12.0            29.3            26.2            21A6              -
Capital and Reserves
Capital                             177.5           160.9            321.5           442.1             882.0
Reserves                            10              278.k 379.Y                      815.0             580.2
:ib     °        0-9-- 3                  f .4  1               1,462.2
Total Liabilities           2,127.2          46L..                                             7,572-5
March. 1976
1/ Details not available - labelled "pending"
7'/ Details not available - labelled "pending"
T/ Includes FAL deposits of 206.3, "pending" of 265.6, and misc. of 4.8



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
INCOME AND CASH FLOW STATEMENTS
 -----------------------US$ Million------------------_______-____
Year ending December 31                                 1971       1972      1973       1974       1975      1976       1977       1978
--------------Audited-------------         --------- Estimated ------------
REVENUES FROM OPERATIONS
Loan Income                                             120.3      120.4     173.8      245.8      345.7      450.2     566.1      705.7
Service Income                                           36.8       47.5      65.2       83.0      128.0      150.4     181.4      213.1
Other Income                                              5.9       60.3     102.1      105.1       95.3       88.8      96.4      105.5
Total                                             163.0     228.2      341.1     433.9      569.0      689.4      843.9    1024.3
OPERATING EXPENSES
Administrative Expenses                                  14.5       17.6      24.5       36.2       na          na         na        na
Financial Expenses                                       83.5      115.3     159.0      196.7       na          na         na        na
Other ExpenspA                                            4.0       10.6       13.U      15.1       na          na         na        na
Total                                             102.0     143.5      196.5      248.0     362.7      447.3      531.2      631.8
IALLernal Cash Generation                          61.0      84.7      144.6      185.9     206.3      242.1      312.7      392.5
CAPITAL RESOURCES
Employees' Indemnity Fund (FGTS)                        716.3      901.9   1,188.3   1,530,7   2,033.6   2,347.5   2,650.0   2,956.5
Amortization of loans, bonds, etc.                      221.5      723.1     456.0      907.4      528.5      675.3      842.2   1,058.6
AID/IDB Loans                                             4.2        8.7       8.7       16.5       35.7       26.4       43.6      59.0
Miscellaneous Resources                                  24.2      102.4       53.4     161.6      253.2      374.9      373.0     402.7
Total                                             966.2   1,736.1   1,706.4   2,616.2   2,851.0   3,424.1   3,915.8    ,476.8
FUNDS AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT                        1,027.2   1,820.8   1,851.0   2,802.1   3,057-3   3,666.2   4,228.5   4,869.3
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES
Housing Loans, Treasury Bonds, etc.                     618.4   1,413.9   1,333.7   2,081.0   2,091.6   2,610.8   3,023.8   3,488.4
Withdrawals from FGTS                                   291.8      378.1     482.6      618.3      843.4   1,049,2   1,197.2   1,371.0
Debt Service AID/IDB                                      0.8        0.8        0.8       0.8        3.0        6.8        7.5        9.9            OD
Others                                                  116.2       28.0      33.9      102.0      119.3        2/         2/         2/
Total                                           1,027.2   1,820.8   1,851.0   2,802.1   3,057.3   3.666.2   4,228.5   4,869.3
'/ Source - Pluriannual 1975/77 and 1976/78 Projections of BNH.
7/ During 76/78 Other Expenditure is a part ofmajor loan program
March, 1976



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS S.A.
BALANCE SHEET (IN UPC (00o)
AUDITED                        PROJECTED
1 973    1974     1975      1976     1977      1978     1979
ASSETS
Plant in Operation                                3955     4866     5731      7061    10283    14395    18810
Accumulated Depreciation                           (23)    (114)    (271)    (495)    (797)   (122)   (1800)
Net Fixed Assets                               T         7       5          656     9436    13170    17010
Work in Progress                                   483      554      2660     6344      8325     8830      8501
Total Fixed Assets                               _      5W       gm51 1 2T:   r7751    MM              MT
Cash                                                45       60       88       101      166       246       749
Inventories                                         45      163       110      151       178      208       228
Accounts Receivable (Net)                          104      185       235      427       552      673       860
Other Current Assets                                46      121        48       16        21       21        26
Total Current Assets                           7           7     -Mr        695       1      7M3        1 
Other Assets                                      --57T -77 T50                        T--      ---
TOTAL ASSETS                                   4752     6356     9027    13712    18688       23158   27384
.. .. a. ... ~~~==== === == =, ==.=
LIABILITIES
Capital Stock                                     1710     1927      2310     2310      2310     2310      2310
Reserves & Surplus                                 153      169       168      453       761     1216      1995
Total Shareholders Equity                 1863                      MR     2_763     3071     3526 4 30
Long Term Debt                                     962  4013         9                    T T    17625    2899
Accounts Payable                                   140      421       596      379       342       286      412
Current Portion-Long Term Debt                     124       94       153       29        46       80       107
Total Current Liabilities                      -2w      7T        7U               -         -9         7
Other 2/                                          T663               T6T        1661   1661
TOTAL LIABILITIES                              4752     6356      9027    13712    18688    23158    27384
==_=  ====    sz=S=    =====    ts===    ====-    =5===
1/Converted at year-end UPC=CR125 .668
7/Consists principally of the offset to the value of the Belo Horizonte system, included in Fixed Assests, valued
it UPC 1661.
May, 1976



ANNEX 10
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
COMPANHIA DR SANRA.MNTO DE MINAS GERAIS. S. A.
INCOME STATEMENTS
A2LITED                         P R 0 J B C T E D
1976  PROJ            1C7T
Volume Produced  (m3 )                    96       138        134         198        239      281     318
Volume Sold       (m310)                  62        90         95         1224       154      183     210
Unaccounted-for wat  %                    35        35         29          37         36       35      33
Average rate per a3   sold                .OOIL    .006       .009        .012      .012    .012    .012
--- ----------VALUES IN UPC (000)  ----------------------
REVENUES
Water                                   219       553       815         1512      1863    2223   2546
Sewerage                                 75       200      297           432       641      975   1750
Other                                    16-!                       ~5                             -IA
Total               16                  -                   1125i209  5&0    "_
OPERATING COSTS
Peronnel                                O14       214      341           593       699      813    893
Power                                    50       104      165           278       328      382    419
All Other                                83       171      27h           h39       §29      665    760
Total                              g.1                  MO13 1U0 176  J 86-                   2072
Income before depreciation                 73       264      332           639       933    1343   2229
Depreciation                               1        (78)    (157)          (J22j 30)  (J28)   5
Income before interest                     56       186      175           41l5      631      915   1654
Interest and other expenses                                  (132)         (130)    (184)   (460)  (736)
Net Income
SURPLUS ANALYSIS
Prior year ending balance                10        50       60           100       371     658   1091
Add: Current years net income        5    2       103                    285       447      455    918
Gross surplus                          62       193      103                     818    1113   2009
Appropriations for:
Dividends                              (2)    (107)       -             -       (139)           (139)
Legal Reserve                          (30       (8)      (3)          (14)      (21)    (22)   (45)
Special Reserve                        (6)      (13)      -             -         -       -       -
Director's fees                        JL        (       -                   -            -       -
Current year surplbus                              -        -            371       6       0_91   1825
RESERVE BAIANCES
Legal (increase from surplus)             3        11       15            29        50       72    117
Adv. for qqpitaL/                        73        98       53            53        53       53     53
All other"/                              26        -          -          -
Total Reserves                        102       109     _7r          -"r?        103             170
Total Reserves & Surplus                12      *j  -ir                            761   1216    1995
Operating Ratio - %                        76        65        70           69        63       58    .18
Average Rate Bass                          NA      4342     5106          6013      7976    i215  14923
Rate of Return                             NA       4.3       3.4          6.9       7.9      8.2   11.1
1/  For all years 1 UPC = Cr$125.68 - US$14.75.
g 1975 reduction was transferred to capital stock.
/  Transferred to miscellaneous income in 1974 'lo partially offset impact  e inflation losses
on long-term debt.
Hay 1976



BRAZIL                                     ANNEX 11
MINkS GERAIS WATER & SEdWRAGE PROJECT II
COMPANHIADE S^E!NOD   IA  GR}   ..(OAA
SOURCE AND APPLCATION OFFUNDS
IN UFO (000)
1975     1976     1977    1978      1979
S3URCE OF FUNDS
Income before Depreciation                              332      639       933    1343     2229
Long Term Debt:
ang TkProjects - gross                               NA      4372      4333    2926     1980
Non-Bank Projects - gross                            NA       436       439    1366      1702
Sub-Total-L.T.Debt                3                        m         M
Capitalized Interest                                    NA       20        301     375    404
Capital Increases                                        71         -        _ -               -
Decrease in Other Assets                                168      319        92       _         _
Increase in Accounts Payable                            234        -       _1 153
TOTAL 90URCES                                    2861     5972     6178    6010      6468
~====   ..  .     . ===  ====
kPPIJCATION OF FUNDS
Projects                                               2661     5014      5153    4667      4086
Capitalized Interest                                     43      206       381     375       404
Debt Amortization                                       115      139       177     622       936
Other Income                                             12         -        -       _         _
Income Tax                                                5        58       92      93       188
Decrease in Payables                                      -       341       20       22        -
Increase in Inventories                                 (53)       41       27      30        20
Increase in Accounts Receivable                          50      192       125     121       187
Increase in Other Assets                                  -       (32)       -       -         5
Dividends                                                                  139       -       139
TOTAL APPLICATIONS                               2833     5959      6114    5930     5965
_=== 5= ===   =n= =    ==      ==
Net Cash Increase                                        28        13        4      80       503
REVENUE- COVNANTT
The above data reflects COPASA's projected cash-flow and include increases in working capital
for the Project implementation. It does not include cash advances provided by BNH and
FAE (equal to a percentage of total loan amount) when loans for subprojects are signed. These advances
are not additional revenues for COPASA since they will be discounted from each subsequent payment
made by BNH and FAE during the subproject construction period. They constitute rather cash-inflows which
help COPASA in reducing its participation in working capital increases from its own internal resources.
They were not evaluated because they vary from contract to contract. Nonetheless, it is estimated that
COPASA's net cash increase will be positively affected during the period of Project construction and
thereafter on the basis that total new loans will increase according to its investment program.
COPASA is expected to meet the revenue covenant.



ANNEX 12
Page 1
BRAZ IL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS S.A. - COPASA
COST OF INVESTMENT FINANCING
(i) Fees discounted when COPASA receives funds:
Source of Funds
BNH       FAE
Administrative Service Charge              1.0%       1.0%
Technical Advisory Service Charge          1.0%         -
Technical Advisory Service Charge          0.7          -
Guarantee Fee                              0.5%         -
3.2%      1.0%
(ii) Interest payable on the principal amount of the loan:
Interest                                   4.0%       4.5% 1/
Financial Agent                            1.0%       1.0%
Fiscal Agent                               1.0%         -
6.0%      5.5%
(iii) Real interest to COPASA, the beneficiary is:
(a)  Interest and charges on BNH -    6%  x  50% = 3.0%
Interest and charges on FAE - 5-1/2% x  50% = 2.75%
100% = 5.75%
(b)  Divide above interest rate by the real funds received:
BNH = 50% x 96.8 (100% - 3.2% discounted) = 48.4
FAE = 50% x 99.0 (100% - 1.0% discounted) = 49.5
97.9
5.75 - 5.87%
1/   This was changed to 4.0% subsequent to the appraisal.



ANNEX 12
Page 2
(c) To the above must be added the cash discount effect
amortized over 18-year payback:
BNH = 3.2 - 96.8 x 50%  =  0.0153%
18     2
FAE = 1.0 - 99   x 50%  =  0.0011
18    2               0.0163
Plus    5.87
Final   5.88% 1/
1/   The above 5.88% is applicable to all BNH/FAE debt.  This debt is
indexed for inflation (23.4% in 1975). Therefore, any given year's
financing costs are, at least, the sum of interest plus debt indexing.
March 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
BRAZIL
M4INAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS S.A. - COPASA
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS UISED IN PROJECTIONS
1.        Introduction.  The source data for generating all financial projec-
tions was based upon 1973 and 1974 audited financial statements and a projected
investment program prepared by COPASA's Project Planning and Implementation
group. In order to maintain a standardization of value throughout, all projec-
tions were made in terms of UPC, which at the time of preparation was:
1 UPC = CR$ 125.68 = US$14.75 - 1US$ = CR$ 8.52
2.        Investment Program.  This program was developed as follows:
2.1 Where actual subprojects existed, and had BNH/FAE financing
contracts, the values of the contracts were used as a base, and
future expenditures were projected based upon engineering esti-
mates of work performed to date. The "spent to date" was
reconciled back to the company's existing long-term debt.
2.2 Where subprojects existed, but did not as yet have financing
contracts, the cost and expenditure periods were taken from
the project economic summaries.
2.3 Where subprojects were not available, but population and
existing system data were available, subproject costs were
computed on the basis of 4 UPC/capita - a preliminary review
criteria utilized by BNH. In addition, 1.6 UPC/capita was
added for those existing systems which were known to lack
water treatment facilities, and 2.0 UPC/capita for existing
sewerage systems without treatment facilities.
2.4 Subproject Preparation and Design Cost. This approximates 7/10%
of each subproject.
2.5 Conversion of UPC to US$. A calculation was made of the "price
contingency" of this loan which represents the difference betw-en
the Cr$/UPC and the Cr$/US$ relationship. This factor was applied
to the Bank loan disbursement schedule, and was reduced from its
historic value based upon Brazil's plans to reduce the differential.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
3.        Water Produced/Water Sold/Unaccounted-for Water.  Water required
(produced) was the basis for all calculations, and was based upon gross water
produced/capita served, using BNH project standards. Unaccounted-for water
used was 30% the first year after project completion, and dropped 1% per year
each year thereafter until 20% is reached.
4.        Tariffs and Collectibility.  Existing average tariff was converted
to UPC equivalent, and was held relatively constant throughout the plan period.
Minor variations occur due to the inclusion of an assumed increase in sewerage
tariffs from 50% of water in 1976 to 80% of water rates in 1979. For collect-
ibility, a factor of 10% was introduced as being uncollectible.
5.        Operating Expenses.  Projections prepared by COPASA using a system
called "Agrega" were the basis of the water projections. Separate "Agrega's"
were prepared as follows:
- for cities operated by COPASA for which no new projects
were conceived.
- for the 24 subprojects in IBRD-1 (Loan 1009-BR), and
which included the cities of Montes Claros, Itajuba, and
Uba from the second loan.
- for the pilot project of more than 60 small communities.
for 33 communities which were subsequently reduced by
COPASA to 28. The projection was adjusted for the elimi-
nation of the five cities.
- for 21 communities which were adjusted to the remaining
12 in the program on the basis of population served.
The above projections were reviewed in relation to COPASA's actual operating
costs--13% was added to the costs in the projections.
6.        Interest and Financial Costs.  The basis of the calculations was
in two parts:
6.1 The existing borrowings, and proposed future borrowings to
complete projects for which financing contracts had been signed
prior to April 1975. These BNH contracts used the 6% interest
rate.
6.2 For all investments not contracted prior to that date the interest
and discount factors were those contained in Annex 11B.
6.3 Interest during construction was added to Fixed Assets (capital-
ized) and for cash flow purposes was considered as paid in the
year incurred since both BNH and FAE require interest payments
during the loan "grace" period.



ANNEX 13
Page 3
7.        Balance Sheet Items
7.1 Receivables (net of reserve). After eliminating the volume of
uncollectible accounts from 1975 preliminary statements, COPASA
has 23% of annual billing outstanding. This factor was used in
the projections, gradually reducing it to 20% by 1980.
7.2  Inventories were maintained at a level of 1-1/2 months' supply.
7.3  Fixed Assets.  It was assumed that 50% of the prior year's ending
balance of work in progress would be capitalized as operating
assets in the current year, and depreciated. Interest during
construction was added to the fixed asset base by being incor-
porated into work in progress.
7.4 Current Accounts Payable were assumed to remain equal to one
month's operating cost, plus one-twelfth of annual debt service.
7.5 Long-Term Debt. Financing was assumed to be available for all
project works from the existing BNH/FAE sources. Amortization
of the debt was related to the time frame of the project, i.e.,
twelve months' grace for one-year projects; twenty-four for two-
year projects, etc. For the major metropolitan projects of Belo
Horizone, Montes Claros, and Divinopolis, each year's investment
was considered to have three years' grace since those projects
will be financed in stages rather than in one single financing
contract.
March 1976



ANNEX 14
BRAZIL                     Page 1
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT II
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S.A. (COPASA)
TARIFF STRUCTURE - WATER
1 .)        The basis for development of a progressive tariff structure
is the fundamental concept that the volume of water used is directly related
to the ability of the consumer to pay-or income distribution. Hence, the
initial step is to find income distribution statistics, or, lacking that
data, to develop the quantity of connections for each volume range (0-5m3/month,
5.1-1Om3/month, etc.).  COPASA used the volume/connection basis since income
distribution data was not readily available.
2.)         COPASA then established a minimum usage/connection of 10m3/month,
which allows approximately 15 gallons/person per day. This volume is
considered to be the minimium an individual requires for basic cooking, laundry,
and sanitary requirements. This minimum volume also covered 20% of the total
residential usage, and hence, the lowest 20% of the population in terms of
incone distribution.
3.)         The rest of the tariff structure is dependent upon two factors:
(a) the quantity of tariff increase steps required-generally, no more than
7; and (b) the total revenue that the company needs or wants. In COPASA's
case, they chose to have 5 incremental steps, defined first in terms of
additional volume, and subsequently in terms of price at each level to
achieve the desired overall result. COPASA made various alternatives, and
selected a combination which: (a) maintained the previous minimum billing
value to consumers using the minimum quantity or less; (b) increased
substantially the cost to the heaviest users-those in the higher income
group; and (c) generated an overall increase of 22% on the same volume of
water sold when compared with existing rates.
4.)         The following table compares the previous structire with t>e
structure introduced in April 1976:
RESIDENTIAL
Previous                                  Present
0-15m /month       Cr$1.19/m3             0-1 0m3/month       Cr$1.31/m3
15-3Qm3 /month          1.19/im3          11-15m3/month           1.48/m3
31-600m3/month          1.31 /m3          16-25m3/month           1.57/m3
26-5Om3 month           1 67/m3
51 -1 0om /month        1.86/mr3
1 01 -60Qm3/month        2.10/m3



ANNEX 14
Page 2
COMMERCIAL
Previous                                   Present
0-25m3 month         Cr$1 .22/m3           0-25m 3/month         Cr$1 .59/m3
26-600  /month           1.38/m3           26-50m3.month             174/mr3
51-1 0m3/month           1 .86/m3
1 o-600zu3/month          2.01/m3
INDUSTRIAL
Previous                                        Present
All m3               Cr$1.38             Up to 150On3/month    Cr$1.81/m3
1501-3000m3/month         1 .66/rn
Over 3001 m3/month        1.65/m3
May 1976



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY & SEWERAGE PROJECT
SISTEMA FINANCEIRO DE SANEAMENTO
FUND FLOWS
]    B N H/  |-  DISBURSEMENT    EXTERNAL               FINANCING
SFS           REPAYMENT          FINANCING    l         ENTITY
REPAYMT    _   (IBRD, OTHERS)            (STATE)
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
z
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~
AGEQNCY                     REPAYISBRSMENTADIS'RTV
STATE BANK                  RPYET-AEC
Z  Z                                                    / In most caw the State Banke
LU  I- i*                                                      i
CD z    
I                                                               L
i~~~~~~~u
FINALCIAL   |
BGENCE FEPA YCEA R
F  STATE WATERRFA
w   m  -  w                               In most cases the World   Bank -70






BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL HOUSING BANK (BNH)
SUPERINTENDENCY OF THE SANITATION FINANCE SYSTEM (SFS)
ORGANIZATION CHART
SUPERINTENDENT
ASSISTANT
SUPERINTENDENT
ANALYSS AN                        TECHNIICAL    X{                  FNNE
PLANNING                  |      CONTO                            FINANCE
PLANNING AND                     CONSTRUCTION                       FINANCIAL
PROGRAMMING                        CONTROL                         PROPRATMION
L   TECHNICAL    l       J       TECHNICAL                        FINANCIA
7   ANALYSIS  l          7      ASSISTANCE                       OPERATIONS
COST ANALYSIS                     TECHNICAL                     CONTROL OF STATE
AUDITING                     SANITATION FUNDS
World Bank-7952






BRAZI L
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE PROJECT
NATIONAL TRAINING PROGRAM
Definition of
Training Needs
.~Planning
1T I
Project 1                        Project 3
Manuals and                      Courses for Engineers
training Materials               and High Level Technicians                        Other
Project 2                        Project 4                                        Projects
Training Courses                 Courses for Administrators                       Poc
for Trainers                     and Managers
Evaluation  ~mmmM M M
World Bank-7991






BRAZI L
MINAS GERAIS WATER SUPPLY AND
SEWERAGE PROJECT II
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS, S. A. - "COPASA"
ORGANIZATION CHART AS OF JUNE 1975
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS" /
PRESIDENT
_ L         |       ~~~~LEGAL   1
DEPT.
PLANNING-.    I
DEPT.        .
COM  LCOORDiNATI ON
EXTERNAL AFFAI RSj
EXPANSIODN                                       MATLS.E CONTAROL
PROJECT DESIGN            OPERATIONS             TRANSPORTATION               FINANCE             ADMINISTRATION
& CONSTRUCTION        .INFORMATION 
REGIONAL          CIYSSEM
MANAGER            MANAGER
V Consists of (June 1975)
President
Superintendent -  Administration
-  Expansion
-  Finance
-  Operations
Coordinator  -  External Affairs
World Bank-15364






50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
B R A Z I L                                             \\                    d5-             w
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS                                                         (                                        c   o v-                       6
LOCATION OF SYSTEM OPERATING COMPANIES
TH1OU5-  JANUARY 16                                       -LJ    Monlte A                                                                                   _
SYSTEMS ADDED BETWEEN JANUARY 1974                        L                                                                     M   VendeO
* THRDOUGH JANUAR Y 1976i 
*    SYSTEMS OPERATED BY COMAG. AS OF   r - - -         r       '  
DECEMBER 1973                     r FED. DIS T
STATE BOUNDARIES                                            \                                          - 0                      rtor,ntH
RIVERS                           <B1ASIUA          l                                   S. F-oo                                WON   O
Om
B-ili. de Min-R
I,                              H~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
, F                     t   /At                                />s              fA"~~In  OJeqUtj h/o
S~~~~~~
or-   0GoordnMon
KILOMETERS                                      \                                                                                                               T.6filOt-i
()   t>}2hd    Vatante                     j               u °                v                                           forintH0 
Moroda 4P NwPo                                                        . h.PeO iA
P M!-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
d. P-Mb. ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     Feob 
0                                                                                       DN~~~~~~otoen   E0  OIOT
'J'e~                                                                                 SO 0 A o            CUIVel0°nitO    p                                                  _
50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
00r -1A                                                                                                                                   -4 Vargeto  nito-
OOl.-t.7O \ A ,    DX .... Munif    0</§< BG                                  P.o.
.,   4 !   9 '   9  -   l  .                           o G u a u p t   °~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~te nt                                             M o-n  o* Snt o   DO U/*  )   4
VRS         B R  A   Z   IL                                                      /                                                              .  Lopoldint COR-  t     -
0'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                             0.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
k PERU q, g n             2                               z         C;                                            '                         - b-     A; hhs°
f >   i   J   t         :   ~~~~~bvp  nonl y oraep by M,e           t_-- _   z-                       --> ~      _           1 4 
,. . 1i1t 5sd e   J             i>                                                               *     i



