CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1309 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Minas Gerais Water Supply
and Sewerage Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
and
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE
MINAS GERAIS -- COPASA-MG
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated August 27, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACA0 (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS -- COPASA-MG (herein-
after called COPASA) and the STATE OF MINAS GERAIS.
WHEREAS (A) Plano Nacional de Saneamento (hereinafter called
PLANASA) is a water supply and sewerage program of Brazil, the
execution of which has been placed under the direction of the
Borrower;
(B) By a loan agreement (Minas Gerais Water Supply and
dewerage Project) (hereinafter called the Prior Loan Agreement)
dated June 17, 1974, between the Bank and the Borrower and Com-
panhia Mineira de Aguas e Esgotos - COMAG (the former name of
COPASA) and the State of Minas Gerais, the Bank agreed to lend
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
$36,000,000 to finance the project described in Schedule 2 to
such loan agreement;
(C) The Project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement
is the continuation of the program included in part A of the proj-
ect referred to in Recital B, and will be carried out and financed
as part of PLANASA;
(D) The proceeds of the loan referred to in Recital B have
been allocated to finance certain expenditures for said program,


﻿-2-                        0
- 2 -
and the Federative Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Guar-
antor), the State of Minas Gerais, the Borrower and COPASA have
requested the Bank to assist in financing the continuation thereof
by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(E) The Project will be carried out by COPASA with the as-
sistance of the State of Minas Gerais, which will make funds
available to COPASA for such purpose, and of the Borrower, which
will make available to COPASA, as hereinafter provided, funds
equivalent to the proceeds of the Loan;
(F) The State of Minas Gerais and COPASA have agreed to
undertake certain obligations to the Bank in respect of the
Project, as hereinafter set forth;
(G) The State of Minas Gerais warrants and represents that
it is authorized to undertake such obligations pursuant to the
provisions of its Law No. 2,842 of July 5, 1963 and its Decree
14,189 of December 15, 1971; and
(H) The Bank is willing to make the Loar. available upon the
terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Guarantee
Agreement between the Guarantor and the Bank of even date herewith;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
.provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the amendment of Section 9.01 thereof to read as
stated herein below (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being here-
inafter called the General Conditions):
"Section 9.01. Cooperation and Information. (a) The
Bank, the Borrower, COPASA, the State of Minas Gerais and the
Guarantor shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes
of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, the Bank, the
Borrower, COPASA, the State of Minas Gerais and the Guarantor
shall from time to time, at the request of any of them:
(i) exchange views through their representatives
with regard to the progress of the Project,
the benefits derived therefrom and the per-
formance of their respective obligations under
the Loan Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement
and other matters relating to the purposes of
the Loan; and
(ii) furnish to the other parties all such informa-
tion as any of them shall reasonably request


﻿4
with regard to the progress of the Project,
the benefits derived therefrom and the general
status of the Loan.
(b) The Bank, the Borrower, COPASA, the State of Minas
Gerais and the Guarantor shall promptly inform each other of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to inter-
fere with, the progress of the Project, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service
thereof or the performance by any one of them of its obliga-
tions under the Loan Agreement or the Guarantee Agreement, as
the case may be.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportun-
ity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of its territory for purposes related to the Loan."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth, and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "PLANASA-MG Agreement" means the agreement (No. CVN-002/973)
dated January 31, 1973 between the State of Minas Gerais, the Bor-
Yower, Companhia Mineira de Aguas e Esgotos-COMAG (the former name
of COPASA), and Banco de Credito Real de Minas Gerais, S.A. (here-
inafter called Banco de Credito Real), as the same may be amended
from time to time.


﻿-5-
(b) "PLANASA-MG" means that part of PLANASA to be carried
out in the State of Minas Gerais, as provided in the 7LANASA-MG
Agreement.
(c) "FAE-MG" means the Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewer-
age Fund established by the State of Minas Gerais and entrusted
to Banco de Credito Real, pursuant to the agreements approved by
Resolugao Legislativa No. 1,001 of December 3, 1971, of the State
of Minas Gerais.
(d) "SuperintendCncia" means "Superintend@ncia do Sistema
Financeiro de Saneamento", a superintend@ncia of the Borrower
entrusted with the Borrower's financing and technical functions
concerning sanitation of urban areas in Brazil, or any successor
thereto; and "SFS" means "Sistema Financeiro de Saneamento".
(e) "sub-project" means a water supply or a sewerage sub-
project included in the Project, which the Borrower, and the State
of Minas Gerais through FAE-MG, propose to finance or have financed
under PLANASA-MG in whole or in part out of the proceeds of a sub-
loan.
(f) "relat rio" means the pre-feasibility study for a sub-
project, as defined in OS/SFS No. 4/70 of the Borrower; and "projeto
tecnico" means the feasibility study for a sub-project, as defined
in OS/SFS No. 6/70 of the Borrower, as such definitions shall be
modified from time to time by the Borrower.


﻿-6-
(g) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
Banco de Credito Real to COPASA for the purpose of financing the
carrying out of a sub-project, and to be financed by a "BNH loan"
and by the State of Minas Gerais through FAE-MG.
(h) "BNH loan" means a loan mLde or to be made by the Bor-
rower to Banco de Credito Real to finance a sub-loan by the latter
to COPASA for the purpose of financing the carrying out of a sub-
project, and to be financed in part out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(i) "Concession Contract" means a contract between COPASA
and a municipality regarding the financing, carrying out, and
operation of a sub-project.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred
to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty(million
dollars ($40,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account for sixty per cent (60%) of the amounts dis-
bursed by the Borrower under BNH loans after the date of this Agree-
ment in respect of reasonable expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) by COPASA for goods, civil works and
services required for carrying out sub-projects approved by the
Bank pursuant to Section 3.02 of this Agreement; provided that
not more than the equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000)
shall be withdrawn in respect of expenditures made by COPASA before
the date of this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
goods and civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date,


﻿-8-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commit-
ment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not with-
drawn from time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and eighty-five hundredths per cent (8.85%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. COPASA shall, and the Borrower shall cause
COPASA to, carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with sound financial, engineering ana public
utility practices.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
only sub-projects approved by the Bank, the projetos t4cnicos
for which shall have been prepared in accordance with, and which
meet the requirements set forth in, Schedule 4 to this Agreement,
shall be included in the Froject.
(b) COPASA shall: (i) prepare the relat6rio and the projeto
t9cnico for each sub-project; (ii) promptly furnish such rela-
t6rio and projeto t4cnico, and any material modification thereof
or addition thereto, to the Bank, through the Borrower; and (iii)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment on each rela-
t6rio and on each projeto t4cnico for any project included in
PLANASA-MG.
(c) The provisions of Schedule 3 and of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement shall supersede those of Schedule 4, and of Schedules
6 and 7, respectively, to the Prior Loan Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the State of Minas Gerais
shall cause Banco de CAdito Real to make sub-loans to COPASA.
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, as required by


﻿- 10-
COPASA to comply with the provisions of Section 3.01 hereof, and
shall otherwise cooperate in the financing and carrying out of the
Project; all in accordance with the provisions of the PLANASA-MG
Agreement.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(i) the Borrower shall participate in the preparation
and appraisal of the sub-projects, and shall make
BNH loans to Banco de Credito Real in an amount
equal to one-half the amount of the sub-loans re-
ceived by COPASA from Banco de Credito Real; all
with due diligence and efficiency, and in accor-
dance with the provisions of this Agreement; and
(ii) the State of Minas Gerais shall cause COPASA to
receive financing out of the resources of FAE-MG
in an amount equal to one-half the amount of the
sub-loans received by COPASA from Banco de Credito
Real.
Section 3.04. COPASA shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Concession Contracts and the PLANASA-MG Agreement, and,
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, COPASA shall not amend,
waive or fail to enforce any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. COPASA and the Borrower shall take or cause to
be taken all reasonable measures to ensure that the execution and
operation of the Project are carried out with due regard to health,
ecological, and environmental factors.


﻿- 11 -
Section 3.06. COPASA shall promptly furnish to the Bank,
upon request, the plans, specifications, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for each sub-project, and
any material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.07. COPASA shall: Ci) maintain records Aequate
to reflect the progress and cost of the Project and of each sub-
project and to identify the goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in
each sub-project; (ii) enable the Bank's representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in each sub-project
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the sub-projects, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed out of
such proceeds.
Section 3.08. (a) COPASA undertakes to insure, or make ade-
quate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to their acquisition, transportation and delivery to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by COPASA to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, COPASA shall
cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan to be used exclusively for the sub-projects.


﻿-12-
ARTICLE IV
Additional Covenants of COPASA
Section 4.01. COPASA shall at all times manage its affairs,
maintain its financial position, plan its future expansion and
conduct its business and undertaking, all in accordance with sound
business, financial and public utility practices, and under the
supervision of experienced and competent management assisted by
adequate and competent staff.
Section 4.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree:
(a) COPASA shall at all times take all necessary steps to
maintain its existence and its right to carry on operations, and
to acquire and retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises
which are necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with
its obligations under this Agreement or for the efficient conduct
of its business and undertaking.
(b) COPASA shall at all times operate and maintain the
plants, machinery, equipment and other property owned or operated
by it and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering and public utility prac-
tices.
(c) COPASA shall not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise
dispose of any of the property or assets owned or operated by it
which are necessary or useful for the efficient conduct of its
business and undertaking.


﻿-13 -
Section 4.03. COPASA shall make provision satisfactory to the
Bank for insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with sound public utility practice.
Section 4.04. COPASA shall maintain records adequate to re-
flect in accordance with consistently sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
Section 4.05. COPASA shall: (i) have its accounts and finan-
cial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and expenses
and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by indepen-
dent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of such financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of COPASA and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time to time reasonably request., In addition, specific information
in respect of the Project and the sub-projects shall be provided
in the aforementioned documentation in such detail as the Bank
shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.06. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
COPASA shall take all steps necessary on its part (including, but
without limitation, steps regarding adjustment of overall level of
COPASA's tariffs for water supply and sewage collection in the
systems operated by COPASA), as shall be required to provide revenues


﻿sufficient to cover, in each fiscal year, all its operating ex-
penses, interest and other charges on debt, repayment of loans,
increase in working capital other than cash, net miscellaneous cash
outflows, all dividends and other distribution of surplus, and an
annual contribution to a cash reserve, such contribution to be
equal to at least one per cent (1%) of the gross value of fixed
assets owned or operated by COPASA, all such items to be evaluated
on the basis of COPASA's annual financial statements audited as
required by Section 4.05 of this Agreement.
For the purposes of this paragraph:
(A) The term "revenues" means all of COPASA's revenues from
all sources related to water supply and sewerage opera-
tions:
(i) including "Venda de     a por Atacado", "Requeri-
mento de LigaCoes", "Religagoes e San(*es", "Revi-
sao de Hidr8metros", "Trabalhos Extra de Ligaq'es"
and other incidental revenues related thereto;
(ii) but excluding "Quota de Previdencia Social cobrada
sobre os ServiCos de Abastecimento dAgua e Redes
de Esgotos", "Receitas nao Operacionais" and all
contributions to construction other than cash from
customers, urban developers and municipal authori-
ties in the State of Minas Gerais.
(B) The term "operating expenses" means all of COPASA's ad-
ministrative, commercial and operating costs:


﻿-15 -
(i) including maintenance costs, "custos redistribuf-
veis" and all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes
for uncollectable accounts;
(ii) but excluding "Quota de Previdtncia Social p
sobre os Servigos de Abastecimento d'Agua e Redes
de Esgotos", "Despesas nao 0peracionais", interest
and other charges on debt, provision for deprecia-
tion and provision for "amortizag'o" of the sys-
tems built by COPASA under the Concession Contract.
(C) The term "increase in working capital other than cash"
means the difference between increase in inventories
*              and accounts receivable on the one hand and increase
in accounts payable on the other.
(D) The term "net miscellaneous cash outflows" means the
difference between cash changes in COPASA's "Receitas
nao Operacionais" and "Despesas nao Operacionais" ac-
counts.
(E) The term "gross value of fixed assets owned or operated
by COPASA" means the value of such assets as estab-
lished in COPASA's accounts, including the gross value
of the systems operated by COPASA under the Concession
Contract.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, COPASA shall
maintain the water supply tariff structure in effect as of the date
of this Agreement.


﻿- 16                                  0
(c) COPASA shall: (i) in order to maintain a realistic val-
uation of its assets in its accounts and financial statements,
revalue such assets at least once every calendar year, such re-
valuation to be made in accordance with an official index and
following a method, both said index and method satisfactory to
the Bank; and (ii) promptly take such steps required on its part
regarding tariff adjustments as shall be necessary in the light of
each such revaluation.
(d) In addition to the evaluation referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, COPASA shall, every six months after any such
evaluation: (i) make an updated five-year estimate of cash flow
and financial projections; (ii) make a review of its tariff levels;
and (iii) send to the Bank, for its comments, detailed information
on each such estimate and review.
Section 4.07. COPASA shall carry out a study of its tariffs
for sewage collection under terms of reference satisfactory to
the Bank, and shall furnish to the Bank by December 31, 1977, or
such later date as the Bank shall agree, the recommendations there-
of with a view to taking appropriate measures based on such recom-
mendations.
Section 4.08. COPASA shall operate such data processing equip-
ment as will enable it to handle efficiently the information re-
quired for planning and carrying out its operations.
Section 4.09. COPASA shall afford the Bank a reasonable oppor-
tunity to comment on any proposed substantial reorganization of
COPASA.


﻿-17 -
ARTICLE V
Additional Covenants of the Borrower
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall conduct its operations and
affairs in respect of the Project in accordance with sound finan-
cial and administrative standards and practice, with qualified
management and personnel, and in accordance with Laws No. 4,380
of August 21, 1964; No. 5,762 of December 14, 1971; and Decree
No. 75,512 of July 23, 1973.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall afford the Bank a reason-
able opportunity to exchange views, from time to time, on the
* Superintend8ncia's organization, and on the guidelines and rules
established or to be established for purposes of PLANASA; such
exchange of views to cover, among others, such matters as:
(i) Superintend@ncia's structure, coordination among various
areas of responsibility, and decision making process; and
(ii) criteria for the preparation, approval, execution, and op-
eration of, water supply and sewerage projects to be financed
by the Borrower.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound ac-
counting practices its operations and financial condition in re-
spect of PLANASA and the Project.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿- 18-
accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
its financial statements for such year as so audited and (B) the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such accounts
and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 5.05. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost
to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satisfac-
tory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such


﻿-19 -
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after the date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-20                                    0
ARTICLE VI
Additional Covenants of the
State of Minas Gerais
Section 6.01. The State of Minas Gerais covenants and war-
rants that the Project is of paramount importance to its economic
development and the social welfare of its inhabitants, and that
the Project will have high priority in the allocation of State
funds, as provided in its laws.
Section 6.02. The State of Minas Gerais shall:
(a) take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary
on its part to enable COPASA to carry out the Project and to per-
form its other obligations under this Agreement, and to enable
COPASA and Banco de Cr4dito Real to perform their respective ob-
ligations under the PLANASA-MG Agreement; all with due diligence
and efficiency; and
(b) not take or permit any of its agencies or instrumen-
talities to take any action which would prevent or interfere
with the performance by COPASA, the Borrower and Banco de Credito
Real of their respective obligations under this Agreement or the
PLANASA-MG Agreement.
Section 6.03. The State of Minas Gerais shall take all such
reasonable action as shall be necessary on its part to enable
COPASA and the municipalities in the territories of which sub-
projects will be carried out: (i) to enter into Concession Con-


﻿-21-
tracts, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, cover-
ing the carrying out and operation of such sub-projects; and
(ii) to perform their obligations thereunder.
Section 6.04. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed pursuant
to this Agreement on behalf of the State of Minas Gerais may be
taken or executed by its Governor or such other person or persons
as the Governor shall duly designate in writing.


﻿-22.-
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) COPASA or the State of Minas Gerais shall have failed
to perform any of its respective obligations under this Agreement;
(b) Any authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any
action for the dissolution or disestablishment of COPASA or for
the suspension of its operations;
(c) COPASA's Estatutos Sociais, as adopted by its Extra-
ordinary General Assembly on December 17, 1974, shall have been
amended so as to materially and adversely affect the carrying
out of the Project or the operations or financial condition of
COPASA;
(d) A change shall have been made in the legislation referred
to in Section 5.01 of this Agreement which will materially and
adversely affect PLANASA or the carrying out of the Project or
the financial condition or operations of the Borrower;
(e) A change shall have been made in the PLANASA-MG Agree-
ment which will materially and adversely affect the carrying out
of any sub-project, the operations of COPASA or which will result
in a substantive modification of the financial conditions under
which sub-projects are financed; and


﻿-23 -
(f) The Borrower, COPASA, or the State of Minas Gerais shall
have failed to perform any of its respective obligations pursuant
to the Prior Loan Agreement.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Gen-
eral Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 7.01
of this Agreement shall occur; and
(b) any of the events specified in paragraphs (a), (b), (c),
(e) and (f) of Section 7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and
shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof
sh l h ave been given by the Bank to the Borrower.


﻿-124)
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the execution and delivery of this Agreement on
behalf of the State of Minas Gerais and COPASA have been duly
authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corpo-
rate action; and
(b) that this Agreement has been duly registered by the
Banco Central do Brasil.
Section 8.02. The following are specified as additional mat-
ters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Con-
ditions, to be included in the opinion or oninions to be furnished
to the Bank:
(a) that this Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, COPASA and the State
of Minas Gerais, and is legally binding upon them in accordance
with its terms; and


﻿(b) that all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be
performed or given by the Guarantor and by the State of Minas
Gerais, by their political subdivisions or agencies, by any agency
of any such political subdivisions, or other-,wise to be performed
or given in order to authorize the carrying out of the Project
and to enable the State of Minas Gerais, the Borrower and COPASA
to perform all of the obligations of each of them contained in
this Agreement (including the obligations thereof relating to
procurement) together with all necessary powers and rights in
connection therewith, including the full power and authority of
COPASA to construct and operate the sub-projects, have been per-
formed or given.
Section 8.03. The date November 30, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-26 -
ARTICLE IX
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.
For the Borrower:
Banco Nacional da Habitag&o
Av. Repfblica do Chile 230
20000 Rio de Janeiro, RJ
Brazil
Cable address:
HABITACAO
Rio
For COPASA:
Companhia de Saneamento de Minas
Gerais
Rua Sergipe 580 (3! Andar)
30000 Belo Horizonte, MG
Brazil
Cable address:
MINAGUAS
Belo Horizonte


﻿-27-
For the State of Minas Gerais:
Exmo. Sr. Governador do Estado
Palicio da Liberdade
30000 Belo Horizonte, MG
Brazil
Section 9.02. (a) Whenever the Bank, the State of Minas Gerais,
or COPASA shall, for purposes of the Project, write to each other
or take any action or give any notice, as required or permitted
under this Agreement, the Bank, the State of Minas Gerais or COPASA,
as the case may be, shall simultaneously furnish to the Borrower
copies of all correspondence or documents or other information in
respect thereof; provided that the parties to this Agreement may
agree that certain communications between the Bank and the State
of Minas Gerais or COPASA shall be channelled through the Borrower.
(b) Whenever the Bank shall, for purposes of the Project,
plan to send its representatives to visit COPASA, the Bank shall
advise the Borrower of the planned visit and afford the Borrower
a reasonable opportunity to have its representatives accompany
the Bank's representatives on such visit.
01


﻿-28                                       0
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DA HABITACAO
By /s/ Luis Antonio Sande de Oliveira
Authorized Representative
COMPANHIA DE SANEAMENTO DE
MINAS GERAIS -- COPASA-MG
By /s! Celso Diniz
Authorized Representative
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative


﻿-29 -
SCHEDULE 1
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the construction of new, or improve-
ment or enlargement of existing, water supply and sewerage systems
in communities located in the State of Minas Gerais.


﻿-30-
SCHEDULE 2
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
September 1, 1979                                   525,000
March 1, 1980                                       550,000
September 1, 1980                                   575,000
March 1, 1981                                       600,000
September 1, 1981                                   625,000
March 1, 1982                                       655,000
September 1, 1982                                   685,000
March 1, 1983                                       710,000
September 1, 1983                                   745,000
March 1, 1984                                       780,000
September 1, 1984                                   810,000
March 1, 1985                                       850,000
September 1, 1985                                   885,000
March 1, 1986                                       925,000
September 1, 1986                                   965,000
March 1, 1987                                     1,010,000
September 1, 1987                                 1,055,000
March 1, 1988                                     1,100,000
September 1, 1988                                 1,150,000
March 1, 1989                                     1,195,000
September 1, 1989                                 1,255,000
March 1, 1990                                     1,310,000
September 1, 1990                                 1,365,000
March 1, 1991                                     1,425,000
September 1, 1991                                 1,490,000
March 1, 1992                                     1,555,000
September 1, 1992                                 1,625,000
March 1, 1993                                     1,695,000
September 1, 1993                                 1,770,000
March 1, 1994                                     1,850,000
September 1, 1994                                 1,930,000


﻿-31 -
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)
March 1, 1995                                     2,020,000
September 1, 1995                                 2,105,000
March 1, 1996                                     2,210,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-32-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                          Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                          1.35%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                          2.65%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                          4.85%
More than eleven years but not
more than sixteen years
before maturity                          7.10%
More than sixteen years but not
more than eighteen years
before maturity                          7.95%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                          8.85%


﻿-33 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The goods and civil works shall be purchased and carried
out, respectively, under contracts to be awarded in accordance
with procedures consistent with those set forth in Part A of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guide-
lines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.   A general announcement of PLANASA-MG for the years 1977-1979
will be placed in at least two well-known publications of wide
international circulation as soon as practicable after the date
of this Agreement.
3.   Identical or similar items of equipment and materials shall
be grouped together, wherever practicable, for purposes of bidding,
in groups of a size satisfactory to the Bank, the Borrower, and
COPASA.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation -nd comparison of bids for the
supply of goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the


﻿-34-
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, including merchant
fleet renewal and port improvement taxes, and sales and similar
taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii)
the cost to COPASA of inland freight and other expenditures in-
cidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their use or
installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of pref-
erence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil
if the bidder shall have established to the satis-
faction of the Borrower and the Bank that the manu-
facturing cost of such goods includes components
manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the
value of the complete goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.


﻿-35-
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and improvement taxes) on
goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be
supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evaluated bid of
each group. The lowest evaluated bid of each group shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall
be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A
after adding: (1) to the c.i.f. bid price of the goods in each
group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group B bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods; and
(2) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied domestically
offered in each group B bid, an amount equal to the smaller of (i)
the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would
be levied on the goods offered in such group B bid if they origi-
nated from the same foreign country as the goods included in the
group B bid which is subject to the lowest customs duties and other
import taxes, or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
If, as a result of this comparison, the bid from group A is the
lowest, it shall be selected for purpose of award; if not, the
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined above, shall be
selected for purposes of award.


﻿-36-
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. If bidders are required to pre-
qualify, COPASA shall, before qualification is invited, inform the
Bank in detail of the procedure to be followed and shall introduce
such modifications in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification shall be furnished by COPASA
to the Bank for its comments before the applicants are notified,
and COPASA shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modi-
fications in, the said list as the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts to which Part A hereof applies:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent
of $4,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, COPASA shall furnish to the
Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a descrip-
tion of the advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding,
and shall make such modifications in the said documents or proce-
dures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further modifica-
tion to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, COPASA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Bank of


﻿-37.-
the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract
and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
reauest. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform COPASA and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or prequalification invited.
3.   COPASA shall make available to the Bank two conformed copies
of each contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the Bank
shall reasonably request. If the Bank shall determine that the
award of the contract was not consistent with this Schedule, it
shall promptly inform COPASA and state the reasons for such deter-
mination, and it may, without in any way restricting or limiting
any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under this Agreement,
by notice to the Borrower, either deduct from any further with-
drawals to be made from the Loan Account, or cancel from the Loan,
such amount as in the Bank's reasonable opinion represents the
amount withdrawn from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
01


﻿-38-
SCHEDULE 4
Preparation of Relat6rios and Projetos Tecnicos;
and Criteria for Sub-project Selection
A.    Preparation
When preparing relat6rios and projetos t6cnicos for sub-projects,
COPASA will follow its own and the Borrower's guidelines in effect
on the date of this Agreement and the provisions of this Schedule.
1. Least Cost Solution
For each sub-project, the alternative to be selected
among different technical alternatives will be that with the
lowest present value of incremental capital investments and
operational expenses during the selected design period, dis-
counted at a rate equal to the cost of funds to COPASA.
2. Basic Considerations
(i) The Borrower and COPASA will continue to use common
basic parameters for establishing technical, economic
and financial data.
(ii) Standard modular designs will be used for treatment
plants, pumping stations and storage tanks in order
to facilitate design of a large number of systems
and their future enlargements.
0


﻿-39-
(iii) Special design standards satisfactory to the Bank,
the Borrower and COPASA will be used for communities
with a population of less than 3,000 inhabitants.
3.   Technical Considerations
(i) Topographic plans at an adequate scale will be pre-
pared for the presentation of the relat6rios and
projetos t9cnicos.
(ii) Soil condition studies will be made for the installa-
tion of pipes.
(iii)  Foundations of main structures, such as treatment
plants and storage tanks, will be designed accord-
ing to actual subsoil conditions of the selected
site as evaluated by the necessary technical studies.
(iv) For the standardization of modular designs mentioned
in 2 (ii) above, special economic studies will be
made, comparing technical specifications and costs
for investment, maintenance, operation and instal-
lation, among the different alternatives.
4.   Sub-project Cost Estimates and Financial Projections
The relat6rio and the projeto tecnico for each sub-
project will include cost estimates and projections prepared
and presented pursuant to methods satisfactory to the Bank,
the Borrower and COPASA.


﻿- ho0 -
B.    Appraisal and Eligibility Criteria
The following criteria will be used to appraise and select
sub-projects to be carried out by COPASA and to be financed by the
Borrower by means of BNH loans:
1.    The following test will be used to determine whether or not a
water supply sub-project is eligible to be included in the Project;
provided, however, that if the sub-project consists of the improve-
ment of part, or extension, of an existing system, the test will
be applied to the entire system that includes the sub-project.
(i) Communities with more than 20,000 inhabitants:
Sub-projects will be eligible if their cash flow, or the
cash flow of the system of which they form part, as the case
may be, for the five year period counted either from the date
of the first repayment of principal of the BNH loan, or three
years after the start of construction, whichever is earlier,
is positive; and provided that if during any one or more of
such years such cash flow is negative, the construction of
the proposed sub-project would not cause the cash flow of
COPASA for such year or years to fall below that required
pursuant to Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
(ii) Communities with populations between 3,000 and 20,000
inhabitants:
Sub-projects will be eligible if the average unit cost
of the services (cubic meter of water produced) to be provided


﻿(141
by the sub-project or the system, as the case may be, does not
exceed by more than 40% the then current average unit cost of
COPASA, provided that the construction of the proposed sub-
project would not cause the cash flow of COPASA during any
one or more of the five years counted either from the date
of the first repayment of principal of the BNH loan, or three
years after the start of construction, whichever is earlier,
to fall below that required pursuant to Section 4.06 of this
Agreement.
(iii) Communities with less than 3,000 inhabitants:
Sub-projects designed in accordance with paragraph A
hereof will be eligible to be included in the Project if the
construc+ion of the proposed sub-project would not cause the
cash flow of COPASA during any one or more of the five years
counted either from the date of the first repayment of prin-
cipal of the BNH loan, or three years after the start of con-
struction, whichever is earlier, to fall below that required
pursuant to Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
2.    The financial incremental rate of return will be calculated
for all water supply sub-projects to be constructed in communities
with 3,000 inhabitants or more, provided that if the sub-project
forms part of a system, such calculation will be made for such
system.
Sub-projects with a financial rate of return lower than the cost
of funds to COPASA will be further reviewed, especially to determine
whether it is practicable to redesign the sub-project so as to


﻿-42-
lower its cost to the extent necessary to meet such test, and they
will be rejected if, after such redesign, the entire system of
which the sub-project would form part does not meet the tests set
forth in paragraph 1 above.
3.   Sewerage sub-projects designed in accordance with paragraph A
hereof will be eligible to be included in the Project if the con-
struction of the proposed sub-project would not cause the cash
flow of COPASA during any one or more of the five years counted
from the start of construction to fall below that required pursuant
to Section 4.06 of this Agreement.
4.   For purposes of this paragraph B, the following terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Cash flow" means the comparison between the aggregate
of all revenues obtained by a system or sub-project, as the case
may be, during a 30-year period, and the aggregate of all oper-
ating expenses and payments to be made on account of debt service
in respect of such system or sub-project, during such period; and
the cash flow will be regarded as positive if such revenues exceed
such expenses and payments.
(b) "Financial incremental rate of return" means the dis-
count rate equalizing the stream of revenues provided by the sub-
project (incremental revenues), excluding the Quota de Previdgncia
Social, and the stream of capital (investment costs) and operating,
maintenance and administrative costs (incremental costs), over the
life of the sub-project, such incremental revenues and costs to be
evaluated in accordance with the provisions of paragraph A hereof;


﻿-43 -
provided, however, that in computing the financial incremental
rate of return, municipal grants for any sub-project in towns with
less than 20,000 inhabitants may be considered as user contribu-
tions.
(c) "Average unit cost of the services" of a system (where
a sub-project will be built) means the present value of the stream
of cash outflows (operating, maintenance, and administrative costs
plus debt service payments), divided by an amount equal to the
quantity of water produced by the system and metered (expressed in
cubic meters) during the life of the sub-project, discounted by a
factor equal to the cost of funds to COPASA.
(d) "Current average unit cost of COPASA" means total esti-
mated COPASA cash out-flows (operating, maintenance, and adminis-
trative costs, plus debt service payments) in the year the sub-
project is approved, divided by the total volume of water produced
by COPASA during the same year.


