CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1309 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
(Second Minas Gerais Water Supply
and Sewerage Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated August 27, 1976


﻿GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated August 27, 1976, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC
OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
the Bank and Banco Nacional da Habitagao (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais--COPASA-MG,
and the State of Minas Gerais, the Bank has agreed to make to the
Borrower a loan in various currencies equivalent to forty million
dollars ($4oooo,oo), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, but only on condition that the Guarantor
* agree to guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect
of such loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's enter-
ing into the Loan Agreement, has agreed so to guarantee such obli-
gations of the Borrower;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
01


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Section 1.01
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agree-
ments, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Condi-
tions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble and in Section 1.02 of the
Loan Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any of
its other obligations under the Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor
hereby unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and not as
surety merely, the due and punctual payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan and the punctual performance
of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all as set forth
in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Guarantor undertakes, whenever there is
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to COPASA,
including the funds provided by the State of Minas Gerais, will
be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the
carrying out of the Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to
the Bank, promptly to provide or cause COPASA to be provided,
through the Borrower, with such funds as are needed to meet such
exDenditures.


﻿S4
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, specific security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external debt,
which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of the
creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization or
distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Guarantor, in creating or
permitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provi-
sion to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitu-
tional or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with
respect to any lien created on assets of any of its political or
administrative subdivisions, the Guarantor shall promptly and at
no cost to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿-5-
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Guarantor, of any political or administrative sub-
division thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or
operating for the account or benefit of, the Guarantor or any
such subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central bank
or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Guarantor.
Section 3.02. The Guarantor shall take or cause to be taken
all necessary action to enable COPASA to comply with the financial
performance requirements set forth in Section 4.06 of the Loan
Agreement.
01


﻿-6-
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is des-
ignated as representative of the Guarantor for the purposes of Sec-
tion 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are snecified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministgrio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministgrio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministgrios
Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINIFAZ                            61142 MFAZ BR
Brasilia
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 204'
United States of Amc-ica
Cable address:                     Telex:
INTBAFRAD                          440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿-7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By Is/ Joao Baptista Pinheiro
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Adalbert Krieger
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


