CREDIT NUMBER 345 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Reconstruction Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 30, 1972


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 345 BD
Development Credit
Agreement
(Reconstruction Imports Program)
BETWEEN
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED NOVEMBER 30, 1972


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT,       dated  November     30,   1972,  between    PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower is embarking on a program for the
reconstruction of its economy;
(B)   the Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the financing
of essential imports required for said program;
(C)   the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
to extend a development credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions
hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitioks
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).


﻿4
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
-count in accordance wiTh the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall go agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that,
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on
account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit which are
to be procured (i) bf any department or agency of the Borrower or (ii) under
any contract estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, shall be procured
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions set forth in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 1974 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on January 15
and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each January 15 and July 1 5 commencing
January 15, 1983 and ending July 15, 2022 each installment to and including
the installment payable on July 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project, or cause the
Project to be carried out, with due diligence and efficiency.


﻿5
(b)   The Borrower shall: (i) promptly      upon receipt of appropriate
applications issue, or cause to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required
to import the goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and (ii)
make available, or cause to be made available, promptly as needed, all foreign
exchange which sl'all be required to import the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause the goods to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be insured, or shall cause adequate provision to
be made for the insurance thereof, against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
beneficiary of such insurance to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.03. The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to inspect any relevant records and documents; and (iii)
shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause the proceeds of the Credit to be
used exclusively for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of
the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to assure
that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower
and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either party:


﻿6
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the use of the proceeds of the Credit, the reconstruction program of
the Borrower referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement and its implementation
and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the reconstruction program of the Borrower referred to in the Preamble
to this Agreement and its implementation.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purpose of the Credit, the maintenance of the service thereof
or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement.
Section 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement shall be free from any
taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery or registration thereof,
imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of


﻿7
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
Section 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance theioof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional event is specified, namely: that the Association shall at
any time have determined, after reviewing in consultation with the Borrower the
progress being made by the Borrower in the implementation of its reconstruction
program referred to in the Preamble to this Agreement, that the purpose for which
the Credit is extended is not likely to be achieved.
ARTICLE VIII
Termination
Section 8.01. The date January 30, 1973 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 9.01. The Chief of the External Resources Division of the Planning
Commission of the Borrower is designated for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 9.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿8
For the Borrower:
Planning Commission
Bangladesh Secretariat
Dacca
Cable address:
PLANCOM
Dacca
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the daiy and year first above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
By /s / A.R. Choudhury
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ William Diamond


﻿9
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the categories of items eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit. The particular items to be financed and the allocation
of specific amounts of the Credit to such items shall be determined by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, as such agreement may be amended
from time to time.
A.    Agriculture
1.   Fertilizer
(a)   Triple super phosphate
(b)   Muriate of potash
(c)   Rock phosphate
2.   Raw Materials and Components for
Pesticide Sprayers
3.   Irrigation Equipment
(a)   Low-lift pumps
(b)   Pumps, engines, screens,
casings and drilling
equipment for shallow
tubewells and improved
dug wells
(c)   Spares for pumps and
engines
(d)   Fuel trucks and oil
tanks
4.   Fisheries
(a)   Nylon twine
(b)   P.V.C. resin
5.    Tea Machinery and
Transport


﻿10
B.    Transport & Telecommunications
1.    Road Transport
(a)   Components and raw materials
for local assembly of buses
(b)   Components and raw materials
for local assembly of trucks
(c)   (i)         Parts for
three wheelers,
scooters and
cycles
(ii)        Tires & Tubes
(iii)       Spares for buses,
trucks & taxis
2.    Water Transport
(a)   Bay crossing tugs
(b)   Components for bay
crossing barges
(c)   Inland barges
(d)   Specialized materials
for inland tugs
(e)   Marine engines, gears
& components
(f)   Shipbuilding quality
steel
3.    Civil Aviation
(a)   Electronic equipment &
spares for Dacca & other
Bangladesh airports
4.    Telecommunications
(a)   Cable, wire, line plant
materials, air conditioners,
radio equipment & other
materials
(b)   Box exchange


﻿K11
(c)   1000 line PABX
(d)   Lincompex
(e)   International Telex Board
and Teleprinters
(f)   Restoration of Dacca-
Chittagong, Dacca-Khulna
and Dacca-Joydebpur
microwave systems
(g)   Comilla-Habiganj Microwave
or Coax system
C.    Industry
1.    Industrial Chemicals
(a)   Chemicals required for
jute industries
(b)   Chemicals required for
cotton mills
(c)   Chemicals required for
paper & board mills
(d)   Chemicals required for
pharmaceuticals
(e)   Caustic soda
(f)   Miscellaneous chemicals
2.    Packing Materials
(a)   Raw materials
(b)   Finished materials
3.    Metals
(a)   Scrap (steel)
(b) Aluminum
(c)   Tin & Zinc
(d)   Others
4.    Jute Industry
(a)   Spare parts
(b)   Consumables
(other than chemicals)


﻿12
5.    Cotton Industry
(a)   Machinery & Spares
(b)   Raw cotton
(c)   Cotton yarn
6.    Office Equipment
7.    Spares and Raw Materials for
Small Scale Industries
8.    Spares for Other Industries
D.    Power
1.    Spares for Power Stations
2.    Spares for Distribution Facilities
3.    Replacement of Destroyed Material
& Equipment Stocks
E.    Construction
1.    Cement & Corrugated iron Sheets
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced
in, or services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(c)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof.


﻿13
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the provision by the Borrower, during the period
from November 1, 1972 to August 31, 1974, of foreign exchange for the import
into the territories of the Borrower of equipment and materials for agriculture,
transportation, communications, manufacturing, power and construction, for the
purpose of supporting the Borrower's program to reconstruct its economy.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1.    With respect to any contract for goods referred to in Section 2.03 of this
Agreement:
(a)   bids shall be obtained from not less than three of the major suppliers
from member countries of the Bank and Switzerland; and
(b)   the contract shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid is the lowest
evaluated bid.
2.    The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after execution of
the contract and prior to the submission to the Association of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract;
(i) the details of the bids sought, (ii) the names of the firms invited to submit
bids, (iii) the summary of the bids submitted and, in the event the lowest bid
is not accepted, the analysis thereof and the reasons for choosing the successful
bidder, and (iv) two conformed copies of such contract.


