Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 23886-CE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 59.3 MILLION
(JS$75 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
AND A GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
TRUST FUND GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.4 MILLION
(US$8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
May 24, 2002
Energy and Infrastructure Unit
South Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 2002)
Currency Unit = Sri Lankan Rupee (Rs.)
SDR 1 = US$1.26543
US$1 = Rs. 96.05
FISCAL YEAR
January I -- December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB           Asian Development Bank
AU            Administrative Unit
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CEA           Central Environment Authority
CEB           Electricity Board
DSM           Demand Side Management
EA            Environmental Assessment
EIRR          Economic Investment Rate of Return
ERC           Electricity Regulatory Commission
ESCOs         Energy Service Companies
ESD           Energy Services Delivery
FIRR          Financial Investment Rate of Return
FMR           Financial Management Review
GEF           Global Environment Facility
IDA           International Development Association
JBIC          Japan Bank for International Cooperation
kW            Kilowatt
M&E           Monitoring and Evaluation
MFIs          Micro-Finance Institutions
MW            Megawatt
NGO           Non-Governmental Organization
LECO          Lanka Electricity Company
PCF           Prototype Carbon Funds
PV            Photovoltaic
RERED         Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
SEEDs         Sarvodaya Economic Enterprises Development Services
SHS           Solar Home System
SPPA          Small Power Purchase Agreement
TA            Technical Assistance
UNDP          United Nations Development Program
VES           Village Electricity Society
Vice President:  Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:  Mariana Todorova
Sector Director:  Vincent Gouarne
Task Manager:    Subramaniam V. Iyer



SRI LANKA
RENEWABLE ENERGY FOR RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                      Page
1. Project development objective                                                      2
2. Global objective                                                                   2
3. Key perfonnance indicators                                                         2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project     3
2. Main sector issues and Gcvemment strategy                                          3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                 6
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                 7
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                      9
3. Benefits and target population                                                    10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     11
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives conside-red and reasons for rejection                        13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies        13
3. Lessons learned and reflect:ed in the project design                              14
4. Indications of borrower comnmitment and ownership                                 15
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                       16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                          16
2. Financial                                                                         17
3. Technical                                                                         18
4. Institutional                                                                     18
5. Environmental                                                                     19
6. Social                                                                            21
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                24



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                     25
2. Critical risks                                                                     26
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     27
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                            27
2. Other                                                                              28
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                          30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                    34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                         57
Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis                                                 59
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                                               66
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                    67
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                         72
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                     78
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                   79
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  80
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                            82
Annex 11: GEF Incremental Cost Summary and STAP Report                                   84
Annex 12: Operating Guidelines for RERED Credit Program                                 104
Annex 13: Summary of ESD Project Achievements and Remaining Barriers                    112
MAP(S)
IBRD 30923



SRI LANKA
Renewable Energy for Rural Econornic Development
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
SASEI
Date: May 24, 2002                                Team Leader: Subramaniam V. Iyer
Country Manager/Director: Mariana Todorova        Sector Manager: Penelope J. Brook
Project ID: P076702                               Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s): Environment; Rural Development; Energy
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Global Supplemental ID: P077761                   Team Leader: Subramaniarn V. Iyer
Focal Area: G                                     Sector Manager/Director: Penelope J. Brook
Supplement Fully Blended? Yes                     Sector(s): PY - Other Power & Energy Conversion
ProjectfFlnancing Data
[ Loan      [Xp Credit    pX] Grant     [ ] Guarantee    [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): IDA 75.0; GEF &.C
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m):    Sourc:e                           Local        Foreign         Total
BORROWER/RECIPIENT                                             0.80           0.00          0.80
IDA                                                           29.00          46.00         75.00
BORROWING COUNTRYS FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES                       5.60          12.30         17.90
SUB-BORROWER(S)                                               11.30          14.50         25.80
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES                             1.80           4.40          6.20
(UNIDENTIFIED)
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILIFY                                    2.90           5.10          8.00
Total:                                                        51.40          82.30        133.70
Borrower/Recipient: GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Responsible agency: GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Ministry of Finance
Address: Treasury Building, Colomboi 01, Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Faiz Mohideen, Director General, Department of External Resources
Tel: 94-1 434-876           Fax: 94-1 447-633           Email:
P076702 Estimated Disbursements. ( Bank FYlUS$m):
F      ;    2003- 12Q00     ->2005     .-2006      - 2007, p008-. I.-0_           l
Annual      7.50     15.00      15.00      15.00     14.25       8.25           l
Cumulative     7.50      22.50     37.50      52.50     66.75      75.00            l
P077761 (GEF) Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FYIUS$m):
FY_         2003      2004X      2005      2006       2007       2008
Annual      1.20      1.60       1.60      1.60       1.40       0.60
Cumulative        1.20       2.80     _4.40       6.00       7.40       8.00 _             ._.
Project implementation period: 5.' years
Expected effectiveness date: 09/15/2002  Expected closing date:  06/30/2008
XS FAD F- L RXWZO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
This Project aims to (i) Improve the quality of rural life by utilizing off-grid renewable energy technologies
to bring electricity to remote communities and (ii) Promote private sector power generation from renewable
energy resources for the main grid.
These objectives conform to Sri Lanka's goal of making electricity accessible to at least 75 percent of its
population by 2007. That aim, if realized, would help to increase the non-farm incomes of rural
households through productive uses of electricity and improve the delivery of social services such as health
and education in rural areas. Consistent with the opening up of the northern and eastern parts of the
country following recent peace initiatives, the Project will also enable the Government to give
conflict-affected people living in those regions access to electricity. The Project concept and design
recognize and respond to Sri Lanka's desire to preserve its unique ecology and bio-diversity.
Further, the Project will contribute significantly to Govemment measures aimed at reforming Sri Lanka's
struggling power sector. First, it promotes greater private sector investment and participation in generating
and distributing electricity, with an emphasis on the use of renewable resources. Second, it facilitates the
growth of a vibrant energy industry based on commercial principles and transparent rules. Third, it helps
Government integrate renewable energy into overall national energy policy and the country's decentralized
administrative setup. Fourth, through its emphasis on linkage of electricity with economic growth and
social well-being and the goals of the Govemment's new rural electrification policy, the Project helps to
amplify the "voice" of rural communities and stakeholders in designing development solutions. Finally, the
Project will enable Sri Lanka for the first time to trade 'carbon emission reduction credits' in the global
market that the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) is bringing into existence.
2. Global objective: (see Annex 1)
The Project's global objective is to reduce atmospheric carbon emissions by removing barriers and
reducing implementation costs for renewable energy, and removing barriers to energy efficiency.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key perfonnance indicators are.
*  Measurable increases in incomes of households that gain access to electricity, assessed
through periodic monitoring and evaluation.
*  Number of strategies developed and implemented by govemment and nongovemmental
institutions in non-energy sectors for using electricity to improve the delivery of their
products and services in rural areas.
*  Sustainability of renewable energy businesses as measured by the annual financial
performance of companies operating in Sri Lanka.
*  Installation of additional 85 MW of grid-connected electric-power generation capacity.
*  Direct access to electricity for 100,000 households and 1,000 rural small and medium
enterprises and public institutions through off-grid systems (solar, community hydro and
biomass).
-2 -



B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assilstance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 15633-CE Date of latest CAS discussion: June 13, 1996
The Project is consistent with key CAS objectives: promoting sustainable private-sector led growth;
increasing efficiency in deliveri of infrastructure, especially in rural areas; preserving the environment; and
working closely with communilies and NGOs to generate development solutions. The Project will seek to
establish a commercial and suslainable renewable energy market, with emphasis on private sector and
community solutions, enabling wider energy access and higher productive consumnption of electricity in
rural areas. This Project follows strategies described in the CAS Progress Report discussed by the Board
on Januarv 19. 1999 (IDA/R98-190) for invigorating the rural economy, empowering and building assets
of the poor and promoting rural economic development and well-being. Further, by broadening the range
of electrification options, the Project would also create alternatives to monopolistic, state-led electricity
provision and contribute to sector efficiency and reform goals.
la. Global Operational strategy/Program objective addressed by the project:
The Project will address Operalional Program 5 on Removal of Barriers to Energy Efficiency and Energy
Conservation and Operational 'Program 6 Promoting Renewable Energy by Removing Barriers and
Reducing Implementation Costs.
2. Main sector issues and Go vernment strategy:
Electricity Sector
According rural electrification a high priority, the Govemment of Sri Lanka envisions rapid expansion of
electricity access as a catalyst for enhancing rural economic and social development. While conventional
grid extension has made good progress connecting nearly 60 percent of Sri Lankans on average to grid
electricity, accessibility differs widely among regions. The more developed Westem Province has over 80
percent coverage, but other Pro-vinces like Uva enjoy less than 30 percent coverage. Though expansion of
the main grid is the principal vehicle for electrification, the success of the ongoing Bank-GEF financed
ESD Project has demonstrated that off-grid systems - such as solar home systerns and community-level
independent grids - are frequenily better-suited to serve remote, rural communities in an economic and
efficient manner. Besides extending access, the main grid is also facing a shortage of generation capacity at
the same time that the Government is pushing aggressively to increase electricity generation. While relying
on its predominantly hydro-based system to meet its electricity needs, Sri Lanka is seeking to expand
generation capacity through conventional thermal generation on the one hand, and by tapping the full
potential of renewable resources such as small hydro, wind and biomass energy on the other. I)emonstrated
to be least cost, renewable energy resources are also particularly suited to the island's desire to preserve its
ecology and environment. Henl,e, Sri Lanka's emerging electrification strategy relies on using both main
grid and off-grid systems to widen access rapidly enough to attain its goal of 75 percent electrification by
2007. Text Box 1 summarizes the country's strategic approach to rural electrification.
Electricity Sector Reforms
Status: The sector has two utilities; the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB) is the main, vertically integrated
utility and a smaller, Colombo-based distribution company, the Lanka Electricity Company (LECO). These
institutions have functioned reasonably well in the past and compare favorably with other similarly
- 3 -



structured utilities in the region. A major share of the country's electricity supply (nearly 70 percent) is
from low cost hydro plants and it has well-developed transmission and distribution networks. The
operational parameters of the utilities, such as system losses of about 20 percent, appear reasonable by
South Asian standards, but need improvement Despite its strengths, the sector currently faces acute power
shortages and a serious financial crisis. An overall, unfavorable view of the sector's management arises
from significant power cuts, along with perceptions that electricity prices are high in relation to the service
provided. Inattention to upgrading thermal capacity to match demand and inadequate tariff adjustments are
responsible for the current state of affairs. These impediments create disincentives for economic
development and threaten the country's competitive position.
Text Box 1
Sri Lanka's Strategic Approach to Rural Electrification
The Govemment envisions a rapid expansion that will make electricity access possible for 75 percent of its
population by the year 2007, a challenge requiring actions to provide access to nearly one million households.
Recent success in establishing peace in the northem and eastem parts of the country has opened up demand for
electricity as a precursor to economic development in those areas.
The Government's most recent policy document on Rural Electrification presents the outline of its strategic
approach to realize these goals. Since technical and financial concems limit grid extension, even widespread
and rapid expansion of the system would leave nearly 20 percent of the island's population reliant on off-grid
systems. Many areas will require off-grid provision until the grid is able to reach such locations. Given that
off-grid and renewable energy systems at present provide electricity to less than one percent of total population,
there is considerable scope to expand their reach. Accordingly, the Govemment has articulated its rural
electrification strategy as "expanding access in the most economically efficient manner, including connection
to the main grid and, where this is notfeasible, (providing) off-grid services at the village or household level."
The policy also emphasizes maximizing economic, social and environment benefits of electrification and
leveraging government resources by seeking private sector and community participation. The key principles of
the strategy are:
(a)   A level playing field in rural electrification so that: (i) all electricity suppliers can compete on equal
terms and (ii) cross-subsidies between rural consumers and other consumer groups are eliminated; and (iii) any
subsidies are made available to all parties interested in rural electrification on a competitive basis.
(b)   An enabling regulatory framework that: (i) is separate and independent from policy and operation
aspects; and (ii) sets a "light-handed regulation" regime that while retaining necessary safety standards, will
simplify licensing for village hydro and mini-grid projects.
(c)    Cost-reflective tariff setting that: enables cost recovery and a reasonable rate of return on investments for
stand-alone mini-grid systems and establishes a tariff regime under which bulk supply tariffs from the main grid
will be made cost-reflective, permnitting any isolated mini-grid to compete on an equal footing with main grid
supply.
(d)    Third Party Access: small producers of electricity will be allowed to sell directly to any consumer
connected to the main grid using the distribution and transmission network at a cost-reflective network service
charge, subject to issues of technical and operational feasibility.
(e)   Subsidy Mechanism for Rural Electrification: is to be established based on principles of economic
efficiency, transparency and social equity to support rural electrification programs. The subsidy mechanism
would be financed through govemment contributions and donor assistance.
- 4 -



Strategy: The Govemment acknowledges that sector reforms would bring high economic gains and
considers them critical to the sector's revival. Under new political leadership, the Government is taking
steps to address the short term crises as well as implement long term reforms. Special legislation has
established a high-powered Energy Supply Committee (ESC) to resolve immediate problems and play the
role of an interim reform, regulation, policy planning and implementation body. Chaired by the Secretary,
Treasury, the ESC has taken initial steps to arrest the sector's decline. Emergency power is being
contracted, and tariffs have been increased. Actions to speed up institutional and regulatory reform are
underway. The strategy is to restructure the sector along the lines of a modem, commercial electricity
industry driven by competition and private investment in generation and distribution and overseen by
confidence-building regulation that facilitates private investment. Recognizing that the process is politically
difficult, high-level policy makers and political leaders nonetheless appear committed to quick
implementation. The World Bark, ADB and other donors are supporting the Government in this effort.
Renewable Energy Developmenat
Status: Sri Lanka has successftdly promoted energy efficiency and renewable energy developrnent under
the ongoing Bank-GEF financed ESD Project (scheduled closing date December 2002). The ESD Project
has exceeded its targets for providing rural energy access through Solar Home Systems, grid connected
small hydro projects and off-grid village hydro systems.
While the foundations have been laid for sustainable growth of the renewable energy industry in Sri Lanka,
certain critical barriers still need to be addressed. The main issues are:
*   Increasing market size to reap further economies of scale, target poor households and serve
productive and service sectors.
*   Expanding participants and stakeholders, as well as capacity building initiatives to achieve
greater outreach and proliferation of renewable energy technologies/applications.
*   Ensuring a level-playing field for private sector and utility operators in terms of market
entry, pricing and financing of energy supply.
*   Integrating renewable energy in the country's overall electrification strategy, including those
for rural development, reforns and decentralized govemance.
*   Enhancing the volume and quality of micro-financing for renewables such as Solar Home
Systems through participation by more financial institutions and expansion of long term
credit liquidity sources.
* Establishing a sustainable and transparent basis for subsidies for rural electrification, with
an appropriate exit policy.
In addition to the above general issues, certain specific barriers affect the respective components - solar,
hydro, wind and biomass energy1 segments (see Annex 11).
The Project envisages addition of about 85 MW of grid-connected renewable energy capacity compared to
the current total installed capacity of about 1700 MW. Given the currently estimated 600 MW capacity
shortfall, as well as an annual electrcity demand growth of 8-10%, the renewable energy capacity additions
can be expected to make an impqortant contribution to the overall stability of the grid network.
- 5 -



Reform-related issues relevant to Rural Electrification
Some of the key legal and regulatory issues relevant to Rural Electrification are to be given effect through
power sector reform legislation and regulations, for which a draft electricity reforms act is under
consideration of the Sri Lankan Cabinet. The key issues enshrined in the Government's policy and
proposed to be given effect under this act are:
*     electricity pricing for grid-connected renewables to be placed under the purview of the
regulator;
*     exemptions from licensing to be provided for small generation and distribution systems or
mini-grids, while retaining a 'light handed' regime to ensure appropriate technical and
safety standards;
*     establishing mini-grids in rural areas to produce and distribute electricity on a smaller
scale with latitude to buy and distribute bulk power from the network and/or sell to
distribution points by accessing the grid. These measures would help reduce the need for
large investments in generation and distribution at the same time that they extend access to
more people in rural areas and promote renewable energy; and
*     enabling third party sales (via wheeling of power through the network where necessary for
smaller systems) subject to appropriate regulatory restrictions.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
First, In the context of the sector issues discussed above, the Project's aim of increasing rural electricity
access required choosing between supporting the Government's grid expansion strategy or commercializing
rural energy grid and off-grid options with an emphasis on renewables. The Project has chosen to support
the latter approach for the following reasons: (i) the large potential for renewables to address country's
electrification needs in a sustainable and market-oriented fashion; (ii) to build on the foundation laid by the
ESD project and the market demand created for renewable energy services; (iii) selectivity on the basis of
proposed programs of support to grid electrification by ADB and JBIC; (iv) comparative advantage of the
Bank and GEF in providing knowledge resources and global learning for renewable energy and rural
transformation; and (v) substantial private sector development and community focus in implementation of
the proposed project.
Secondly, Another strategic choice was between simply expanding electricity access or focusing on the
catalytic role of energy for rural economic development. It is expected that the greater benefits flowing to
the rural areas as a result of the latter choice would increase rural communities' interest in and support for
renewable energy. Consistent with this choice, the Project includes support not only for electricity access
for households, but also support for rural institutions to install energy systems, such as in remote health
clinics or educational facilities. Technical assistance is to be provided for including energy supply as part
of rural development plans.
Finally, at the request of the Govemment of Sri Lanka, this Project has been prepared in an expedited
manner in order to preclude any break in the flow of IDA and GEF funds to the ongoing renewable energy
programs implemented by the private sector and community participants.
- 6 -



C. Project Description Siummary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cosi
breakdown):
The Project will support provision of electricity and socioeconomic improvements in rural areas through:
(i) grid-connected and off-grid hydro, wind and biomass renewable energy technologies; (ii) financing and
grant mechanisms for solar homz systems and other solar energy applications in rural areas through private
companies, NGOs and MFIs; (iii) technical assistance for income generation and social service delivery
improvements based on villages" access to electricity; and (iv) technical assistance to promote energy
efficiency, development of carbon trading mechanisms and integration of renewables into government
policy, provincial council development strategies and sector reform initiatives.
The key components of the Project are (see Annex 2 for details):
(a)  Grid-Connected Renewable Energy Power Generation. This component will enable continuation
on a larger scale of the refinancing support for mini-hydro projects provided under the ESD Project,
as well as extend support to two other commercially available renewable energy sources - wind and
biomass. This componeni will absorb nearly 70 percent of the IDA project financing. GEF grant
funding is not envisaged for any grid-connected investments. This component, successfully
implemented, will result in an increase of nearly 85 MW of grid-connected small-scale renewable
energy capacity. Sri Lanka's main grid will then receive nearly eight percent of its current installed
capacity from such projects, a proportion that is higher than for most other countries. All
grid-connected renewable; will come under the purview of standardized small power agreements and
tariffs developed under E',D. In order to accommodate wind and biomass, however, the existing
agreement may need some changes, that are expected to be addressed during project implementation.
Mini Hydro Projects: A pipeline of eight projects, totaling 39 MW, is in an advanced stage of
development. It is conservatively estimated that an additional 20-25 MW of hydro projects could
come under the credit program during the second half of the Project. Since experience from prior
projects under ESD has led to a better understanding of risks, banks are now willing to explore
other, local, long term finamcing sources to complement the refinance available from this Project.
Wind Projects: After the successful implementation of a CEB 3MW pilot wind farm under the ESD
project, regional wind resource measurements supported by UNDP/GEF and specific evaluations of
sites by a commercial conmpany, the private sector now has access to adequate information in Sri
Lanka to develop and implement these projects. The Project will support commercialization and
up-scaling of wind development, including exploring the possibility of off-shore development. The
newly-opened areas of the North and East have promising potential for wind projects. The Project
will support technical assistance for business development, feasibility studies, and off-shore resource
assessment. In response tc, strong private sector interest in wind power development, the Govemment
has recently issued a 'Request for Proposals,' declaring its intent to expedite wind power
development to augment rnuch needed generation capacity. Wind projects are expected to be an early
beneficiary of carbon trade financing opportunities, proposed to be developed under this Project.
Biomass: Ad-hoc and small biomass (research) projects have provided limited experience with grid
connections to such energy sources. The Project, while taking a conservative approach to biomass
- 7 -



energy development, will support the marketing of viable grid-connected biomass projects. It will
focus initially on small-scale co-generation/gasification projects in the coconut and tea-industry and
on larger scale dendro projects with potential biomass plantations. It will provide technical
assistance for business development, feasibility studies, and regional trade shows, as well as longer
term financing for developers through the Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs). The necessary
additional support for pilot biomass gasification investments will be determined and implemented
during the life of the Project. Subprojects anticipated are one 8 MW project (coconut-based) and
about 4-5 smaller biomass generators in the range of 1-2 MW based on wood wastd (from saw mills)
and/or new plantations.
(b)  Solar PV Investments. Sri Lanka currently has a good foundation for the solar home system market
to expand and gain commercial viability, and the Project will provide credit and grant support for
solar PV investments for household, commercial, and institutional use to enable the market to become
fully commercial. In particular, the Project's proposed refinance, grant, and TA support will seek to
solidify the existing middle-range solar home system market and expand service to other applications
such as: (i) smaller systems accessible to poor households; and (ii) community applications for health
clinics, schools, street lighting, etc. These initiatives will build economies of scale to solidify the
market and also increase outreach and awareness for poor families. Further capacity building in
respect of micro-finance institutions and other household financing organizations serving limited
communities is also necessary to expand credit access. These measures will enable Sri Lanka to
achieve the indicated target of 85,000 solar systems.
(c)  Independent Grid Systems. This component would again build on experience through ESD and
other donor-funded activities and would support further commercialization of village hydro and other
community-based independent grid systems through refinancing and grant support for investments
and project preparation support. Additionally, TA would address such issues as daytime electricity
use for income generation activities and mechanisms for disposition of assets once an area served by
an independent grid is connected to the national system (stranded assets). The status of independent
grids within the sector reform agenda also will be emphasized in the broader sector technical
assistance. The indicative target is access for 15,000 new households and enterprises through
independent grids - village hydro projects, as well as projects based on biomass and other
technologies, where feasible.
(d)  Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management (DSM). The project intends to provide TA and
limited credit support for further private sector development for provision of energy-efficiency
services, including a framework for integrating sustainable implementation of such programs into
sector reforms. The Government's strategy paper, "Energy Efficiency, Conservation and Demand
Side Management Strategies for the Electricity Sector," will underpin such support. It is envisioned
that responsibility for energy efficiency/DSM-related policy and regulatory issues, as well as
implementation of public-policy type DSM programs will rest with the Government, regulator, or
utility, while private sector enterprises such as Energy Service Companies (ESCOs) will implement
commercially viable energy efficiency projects.
(e) Cross-sectoral Energy Applications. For helping rural communities to realize the direct and
indirect economic benefits of electrification, the Project would provide rural enterprises credit
support for larger systems. It will provide service institutions TA for the development of energy,
standardized energy packages to create awareness and to integrate energy provision into improved
service delivery. In addition, co-financing support will be provided for investments in selected areas.
Commercial/institutional support will include TA aimed at mainstreaming productive applications in
- 8 -



off-grid systems. The Project seeks to connect at least 1,000 institutional and commercial systems,
spurring interventions that are critically important in restoring economic development in the country's
northern and eastern areas..
(f)  Technical Assistance. In addition to the component-specific assistance described above, TA under
the Project is projected for the following activities:
* Project administration/promotion;
* Subproject promotion/development support;
* Technology/market introduction/promotion/capacity building related to renewable energy and
energy efficiency;
* Cross-sectoral energy applications;
* Sustainability; and
*   Monitoring and Evaluation.
Project Costs and Financing
I,        _     ,   1   nf 7 indicative ,Bank            % of.    GEF      % of
,  Cornponent  .......  ;  . Sector   Costs    % of   financing  Bank   financng   GEF
_ . ,            ( t . |  , , [-,,1. s   s  {US$M)   C TotWK  (USSM)  financing 4U5$M)  financing
Grid-connected Hydro, Wind  Private            90.30     67.5   49.20     65.6     0.00      0.0
& Biomass Investment      Infrastructure
Projects
Solar PV Investment Projects  Other Power &    28.30     21.2   18.80     25.1     3.90     48.8
Eiaergy Conversion
Community hydro, biomass, &  Other Power &      4.40      3.3    3.60      4.8     0.00      0.0
wind Investnnent Projects  Energy Conversion
Energy Efficiency and DSM  Other Power &        1.00      0.7    0.60       0.8    0.00      0.0
Investment Projects        Energy Conversion
Cross-sectoral Energy      Other Power &        4.60      3.4    2.30       3.1    0.75      9.4
Applications               Energy Conversion
Technical Assistance       Other Power &        5.10      3.8    0.50       0.7    3.35     41.9
Energy Conversion
Total Project Costs                   133.70    100.0  75.00     100.0     8.00   100.0
0.00      0.0    0.00       0.0     0.00     0.0
Total Financing Required                   133.70    100.0  75.00     100.0     8.00    100.0
Note: Both the terms - investment project and subproject - refer to grid-connected or off-grid projects proposed for
finance or financed out of the credit and/or grant proceeds. The terms subloan and subgrant refer to loan or grant
financing with respect to investment project/subprojects.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The Project makes an important, positive contribution to power sector reform by giving issues of renewable
energy, energy efficiency and nural economic development deserved prominence on the policy agenda. The
Project will also support Government compliance with international regulations to access carbon funds,
including ratification of Kyoto Protocol by the Parliament. In addition to the comprehensive rural
electrification policy and power sector reform legislation already discussed (Text Box 1 and Section B 2),
reforms that the Project will advance include:
(a)    Leveraging domestic fmancing: This is a critical factor in maintaining the viability of
renewable energy projects, especially those connected to the grid. The lack of long term
liquidity in Sri Lanka's financial sector inhibits lending in sufficient volume and maturities
-9-



for infrastructure projects. Mechanisms are therefore needed to make long term funding
more available for energy projects as well as micro-credit for small consumers. The
Project will help PCIs to explore and realize complementary sources of local funds, such
as through issuing 'green' bonds.
Text Box 2: Energy Efficiency, Conservation and DSM strategy for Sri Lanka
The Government of Sri Lanka has announced a five-part strategy for promoting energy efficiency,
conservation and demand side management in its electricity sector. Key elements include: (a) Formulation
of a long-term governmental policy to promote and implement energy efficiency, DSM and conservation.
Fiscal incentives and disincentives will be applied through taxation and tariffs as companion measures to
standards and specifications promoting end-use efficiency; (b) Energy efficiency education and awareness
programs will target public and private institutions as well as other end-users; (c) Research and
investigations will be conducted regarding energy efficiency/DSM or energy substitution schemes, (d) An
EE financing approach will focus on increasing the role of the commercial banking sector; and (e) an
institutional framework will be developed to facilitate implementation of EE measures.
As part of its implementation plan, the Government of Sri Lanka will review the existing Energy
Conservation Fund Act (1985) in the context of this strategy and recent developments by October 2002 and
establish a new institutional framework for energy efficiency, conservation and DSM by March 2003.
(b)    Energy Efficiency Strategy: As noted earlier, the Government has prepared a strategy
paper on the future of energy efficiency, conservation and demand side management
activities in the power sector. Part of the strategy entails formulating a long-term policy
in the area of EE/DSM and introducing user awareness and education programs.
Research and development of EE measures will be promoted, and commercial bank
financing of EE projects will be encouraged. The salient features of the strategy are
summazed in the text box above.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Project's principal beneficiaries are rural households and enterprises for whom increased access to
adequate and reliable supplies of electricity will mean expanded productivity, higher earnings potential and
a better quality of life, due not least to their greater ability to operate small appliances and to improve
indoor air quality by reducing kerosene smoke (see text box 3).
Text Box 3: Rural Economic Development From Village Hydro Schemes
The Project will build on Sri Lanka's successful experience of stimulating rural economic development via
village hydro schemes, of which there are over a hundred operating in the country today. Many of the village
hydro projects have contributed to the economic well-being of rural households and enterprises by affording
income generating opportunities. A good example is the one found in many villages where local carpenters
have converted to using power tools from hand tools - usually with a "combination tool" such as a table saw,
planer, drill, and router. This versatile electric woodworking tool reduces production time from weeks, to a
matter of days, for typical products such as doors, windows, chairs, tables, and cabinets. The increased output
allows the carpenter to serve customers in a wider area, enhancing the village's economic base. Other
productive applications that are developing spontaneously include charging of automotive batteries for use by
nearby un-electrified households, incubators for poultry farming, drying of food products such as spices or fruit
for commercial sale, community refrigeration services, and lighting for shops and restaurants.
In addition to such direct benefits, electrified ural public institutions - health, education and water - would
- 10 -



deliver indirect benefits in the firm of improved service. Utility customers, moreover, will gain greater
access and reliability of electricity service due to increase in generating capacity, and the mitigation of
tariff increases due to increased energy efficiency investments. Whilefinancial institutions will be able to
expand their services with long term financing, medium to large scale local investors wiRl benefit from
opportunities to invest in proven renewable energy businesses. Government will gain greater leverage of its
financial resources for investments in adding capacity and promoting rural electrification. Globally, the
Project's environmental benefits include direct and indirect reductions in greenhouse gases, resulting in
global environmental benefits.
Monitoring and Evaluation airrangements:
The Project includes a detailed two-part evaluation programn to establish its effectiveness in meeting its
access and related economic development objectives:
* M&E of the program's physical outputs to assess progress in reaching renewable energy targets;
* M&E of the program's impacts to assess the (i) rural economic development attributable to the
provision of renewable energy services and (ii) sustainability of the renewable energy industry.
The elements to be monitored include: (i) physical progress of rural electrification through grid extension,
village grid, solar, etc.; (ii) impact on development as seen in quality of life enhancement, rural
employment, and changes in income and (iii) sustainability of the renewable energy industry including:
business profitability, cost declines, sales break-even points, structure of system size distributions over
time, institutional and financial viability of small hydro cooperatives,etc. Panel surveys, focus groups, and
other relevant techniques will be used to establish rigorous monitoring protocols. Annual evaluation of
progress will be undertaken and provided as input for relevant reports by the Ministry of Energy and as
guides to revisions of the Project design if needed. Additional surveys or market analyses that may be
needed throughout the Project' s implementation period to assess specific areas such as biomass gasification
market development, village grid productive use etc. are also to be covered.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation period: Five and one-half years (FY2003 to FY 2008)
Executing agencies: Ministry of Finance and Planning
Project coordination: The Administrative Unit (AU) in the DFCC Bank, which was established for the
ESD Project will also impleraent this Project. The AU is well staffed, professionally managed under the
leadership of a Senior Vice President of the DFCC Bank, and has established an excellent track record in
implementation of the ESD Project, eamning the respect of all stakeholders. Institutions such as the Solar
Industries Association, the Grid Connected Small Power Developers Association, the Provincial Council
Govemrnents, SEEDS and other Participating Credit Institutions and a number of NGOs, non-profit and
for-profit renewable energy firms and advisers are expected to participate in project implementation.
The AU would be responsible for administering the Credit Program and the GEF grants, guiding the
cross-sectoral activities, and technical assistance. Although it will also administer the technical assistance
intended for other project entities such as the CEB, other ministries and the various industry associations,
the institutions concerned will be responsible for supervising and reporting on the work. Detailed
operating policy guidelines End proposed on-lending arrangements for the ESD Credit Program are in
place and have been demnonstrated to work well with adequate accountability safeguards that have been
enhanced and strengthened, as necessary, for this Project. The guidelines define the on-lending
- 11 -



mechanism, including the on-lending rate, the terms and conditions, the responsibility of the
Administrative Unit, PCIs and other grant/credit receiving organizations, procurement procedures,
disbursement procedures, enviromnental and other safeguards and audit requirements. Eligibility criteria
for PCIs, including commercial banks, development finance institutions (DFIs), merchant banks, and
leasing companies have been reviewed and made more appropriate to the enhanced scope of on-lending
and new energy applications.
The AU would administer GEF grant funds to: (i) support off-grid subproject preparation activities; (ii)
cofinance off-grid subprojects; and (iii) provide off-grid project support through promotional activities,
provision of grant funding for verification of solar home systems, biomass and wind energy projects and
for consumer education and protection.
Project oversight (policy guidance, etc.): The Ministry of Power and Energy will provide policy
guidance to incorporate renewable energy and energy efficiency into the power sector reform process and
specific implementation of policy elements such as the set up of the rural electrification subsidy
mechanism.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing arrangements: Although the AU has a significantly
enlarged administrative role compared to the ongoing ESD project - reflecting the enlarged scope of the
proposed project - the PCIsIMFIs and project beneficiaries will conduct the actual implementation. The
financial management assessment did not cover the PCIs/MFIs, since there are other existing
arrangements in place for their evaluation. Under ESD, the Bank's South Asia Financial and Private
Sector Development Unit carries out annual assessments of their compliance with eligibility criteria, and
in the new Project, this annual review will be undertaken by the Government in consultation with the
Bank. Furthermore, the Banking Supervision Department of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka closely
reviews the financial soundness of the PCIs. Extemal auditors, to be appointed by November 30, 2002,
will audit the Project accounts and submit their reports to the Bank within six months of the end of each
fiscal year. Audit reports of the ongoing ESD project have been received on a timely basis and have been
satisfactory without any major audit observations. The Project has provision to finance the cost of
external audits.
Funds Flow: On behalf of the Government, the DFCC AU will administer the credit and grant programs.
The Government will make adequate budget provision to ensure that credit and grant proceeds are
available to the DFCC AU for making subloans and subgrants respectively to MFIs, PCIs and other
participating organizations. PCIs will be responsible for approving the loans to ultimate project
beneficiaries following their own loan-screening procedures. Once the loan has been approved, PCIs will
forward a Loan Refinance Application form to the AU requesting commitment for a maximum of 80
percent of the approved loan amount. As and when the PCI disburses funds against the approved loan
amount, it will forward a disbursement request form (with appropriate supporting documents) to the AU
to obtain 80 percent of the amount disbursed to the beneficiary. Similar procedures will operate for
release of subgrants to participating organizations. Specific funds flow arrangements for each component
and further details on the required supporting documentation for reimbursements are given in the
Operations Manual (ESD Operations Manual to be adopted for the Project, after modifications), the
Project Operating Guidelines (Annex 12) and Procurement, Disbursement and Financial Management
(Annex 6). The DFCC AU will also implement all TA funding on behalf of the Government. All TA
activities will be cost shared, either by the beneficiary organization/community or the Govemment. At a
minimum, the cost sharing will cover 20 percent of the activity cost, this being the local taxes and duties
component that is not financed by the IDA Credit or the GEF Grant. Therefore, the Government has
assured that adequate annual budget provisions for credit and grant proceeds from the Project and
- 12 -



counterpart funding on a quarterly basis will be made available to DFCC AU for implementing TA
activities.
Two special dollar accounts (SDAs) will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to deposit the
proceeds of IDA credit and GEF grant, against the Government's budgetary provisions. AU will have the
right to operate the SDAs and withdraw funds, as needed, to disburse subloans, subgrants or technical
assistance. The Project will follow a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) based disbursements process.
The DFCC AU will upgrade its financial management system to enable cornputerized preparation and
submission of quarterly FMRs, which are simplified financial reports of physical and financial progress, as
well as estimates of projected disbursements for the next six months. The FMiRs will be used for
disbursement purposes and release of adequate funds from the Credit and Grant to the SDAs. DFCC AU
also confirmed that the first set of'FMRs will be submitted to the Association within 45 days of the closing
of the first quarter after Project Eifectiveness, which will include the request for the initial deposit to the
Special Accounts. The required FMR formats have been developed by DFCC AU and agreed with the
Government and the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Tbree alternative instruments to the SEL were considered. An APL was rejected because the pace and
extent of power sector reform is not yet sufficient to justify the need for, and scope of a longer-term,
multi-project program. Further, the size of the proposed operation exceeds the LIL threshold, and because
structural adjustment was not viewed as the key issue to address at this stage, an SAL was not judged
appropriate.
A decentralized implementation approach based on Provincial Councils, rather than a centralized AU was
considered and rejected. While such an approach would have possibly matched the grant provisions for
rural energy offered by provincial authorities, it would overtax their administrative capacity. Firstly, even
though initial steps of provincial grant funding have been promising (such as by the Uva province), it is
premature to pursue this option as the flow of funds from the province to the businesses has not been
steady. Secondly the management capacity at the provincial level is limited and cannot yet hanclle a project
of this scale and complexity.
2. Major related projects finanmced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.I^  ~   .   .1   .        .     Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project.                 (PSR) Ratings
.. .              : i___________.____._____.[ (Bank-financed projectisonly)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progmes (IP)  Objective (DO)
Private sector delivery of energy  Sri Lanka Energy Services       HS            HS
Services                          Delivery Project (P010498)
Commercialization of Renewable    India Renewable Resources        S             S
Energy                            Development Project (P02449)
Rural Access through Renewable    Laos Southem Province Rural      S             S
Energy                            Energy (P044973)
Renewable Energy -Dealer Model    Indonesia Solar Home Systems      S            S
(P035544)
-13-



Renewable Energy -grid connected  China Renewable Energy           S             S
Development Project (P046829)
Rural Transformation              Uganda Energy for Rural
Transformation (P069996) - To
be effective May 2002
Projects under Preparation
Electricity Sector Reforms        Sri Lanka Power Sector
Restructuring Project
Renewable Energy- Micro credit as  Bangladesh Rural
well as pay for service channels  Electrification and Renewable
Energy Development Project
Renewable Energy-community Based  Nepal Power Sector
Hydro Development Project         Development
Other development agencies
Asian Development Bank            Sri Lanka Rural Electrification
and Power Sector Reforms
Project (under preparation)
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Project takes into account a rich menu of knowledge acquired from similar projects and reviews.
These include the Sri Lanka Energy Services Delivery Project, as well as, Rural Electrification: A Hard
Look at Costs and Benefits; OED Precis, May 1995; Rural Energy and Development (World Bank
Development in Practice, September, 1996; India Renewable Resources Development, Indonesia Solar
Home Systems, Indonesia Renewable Energy Small Power and Energy, Poverty and Gender in Indonesia
and Sri Lanka, May 2001, and Uganda Energy for Rural Transformation Project. The guiding principles
for success that emerge from these studies are the necessity of providing consumer choice, ensuring pricing
that reflects costs, overcoming high start-up costs, encouraging local participation, and implementing sound
sector policies.
The Energy Services Delivery Project in particular offers many useful lessons for the Project design.
Flexibility is key, with each supervision nission being viewed as an opportunity to adjust project design to
address emerging problems and issues. The grant design and delivery models are simple and easy to
implement; credit lines and grant administration are commercially managed; and industry associations and
advocacy groups play important roles in guiding industry growth and directions. Technology-specific
lessons learned are given below:
Grid-based renewables: Certainty of tariff regime and availability of long term financing are critical to
private sector development of grid-connected projects. The private sector mini-hydro experience has opened
the door for similar projects using biomass and wind resources.
Village Electricity Systems: Participation and mobilization of the whole community is essential for
long-term sustainability. While village hydros remain the least-cost solution for many isolated rural
communities, high development and investment costs continue to be a barrier. To overcome these,
increased productive activities, energy conservation, and streamlined project development to reduce costs
are needed to enhance returns. Commercial banks based in urban centers are averse to financing these
transactions due to the small value of each loan and the rural and dispersed nature of the projects.
Increasing the role of rural credit institutions could ease this constraint. Technical capacity to operate and
- 14 -



maintain such projects can be easily developed within the existing infrastructure of village technicians and
fabricators. It is important to facilitate village hydro development within an appropriate legal framework to
bolster their legal status, and there is a need to mitigate the stranded cost risks in the event of a grid's
reaching a village hydro system. A light-handed regulation would be appropriate for small systems in
remote, rural areas.
Solar PV: The relevant lessors from the recent World Bank Solar Home Systems Projects: Experiences
and Lessons Learned 1993-2000 are that adequate after-sales service, including consumer education in
proper maintenance and operating procedures, is important for increasing consumer satisfaction, reducing
maintenance costs and enhancing overall system reliability. In as much as marketing campaigns are
important to enlarge the market, consumer awareness must be combined with other factors such as
affordability, demonstrations, opinions of neighbors, and service presence etc. to be effective. Also, the
adequate facilitation of consurmer credit is key to expanding the market beyond cash sales. Additional solar
industry lessons on scaling-up operations point to the need to involve large firms with business plans
featuring sales of thousands (rather than tens or hundreds) of systems per month. Large firms are attracted
by a stable operating environment - i.e. stable ground rules such as the SHS specifications and transparent
grant release procedures over a long period - and the prospects for attractive retums on investment. To
promote market growth, more micro-credit/consumer finance institutions are needed, and consumers must
be made aware of the potential of solar systems to raise their incomes and quality of life (see Annex 2, Box
1).
Energy efficiency and conservation: Key lessons learned within the Bank from the implementation of
Bank-supported energy efficiency projects in Thailand, India, Sri Lanka and China are that high tariffs are
a strong incentive to promote energy efficiency and DSM but are not by themselves sufficient to expand the
market. Other barriers including awareness and lack of private sector service provision channels are
equally important. Also, financial packaging of energy efficiency projects is important as such projects
often need innovative financing and security structures. Energy Services Companies (ESCOs) are
appropriate private sector vehicles for implementing energy efficiency projects, but the industry needs to be
nurtured through technical assistance.
Cross-sectoral Energy Applications: Although there is still little operational experience in this area, the
lessons learned during the preparation of the Uganda Energy for Rural Transformation Project have been
incorporated into the design oF this Project. The key lessons are that cross-sectoral applications -
welcomed by all stakeholders - can stimulate demand for electricity services, making it more attractive for
private sector participation in rural electrification schemes. Given the paucity of precedents, however, it
would take time to develop operational models.
4. Indications of borrower and recipient commitment and ownership:
The Government of Sri Lanka has announced a Rural Electrification Policy that articulates its vision and
intentions to create enabling o)nditions for: (i) promoting rural access to electricity; (ii) integrating
renewables into the overall electrification strategy; and (iii) facilitating the spread and adoption of
renewables in a variety of ways. The draft policy, which also contains a strong indication of the
Government's commitment to renewable energy, underpins the proposed Project.
The Government is taking steps to reforrn the power sector. It has recently enacted legislation to establish
the Energy Supply Committee (ESC) with a wide-ranging mandate to address short term crises arising from
power shortages and implement the longer term reform program. The reform program will take into
account the directions provided in the new Rural Electrification Policy (see Text Box l).
- 15 -



In separate meetings, such private sector participants, NGOs and community based organizations as the
Village Hydro Developers' Groups/Association, Solar Industry Association, Biomass Energy Association,
the Energy Forum, Ceylon Electricity Board, the Small Power Projects Developers Association etc. have
made commitments to participate and scale up their efforts under this Project. Collectively, these
associations represent nearly sixty different companies, enterprises, financial institutions,
developers/investors and organizations. The current five participating credit institutions under the ESD
project have also confirmed their participation and appetite for scaling up their financing activities
appropriately. The PCIs have confirmed that projects worth nearly US$ 20 million are approaching
financial closure and are targeted for refinancing under this Project
5. Value added of Bank and Global support in this project:
The Bank is recognized and accepted in Sri Lanka as a key catalyst, in partnership with such other donors
as UNDP, for renewable energy development and energy efficiency. The key value-added stems from the
Bank's ability to promote a policy framework that can facilitate both grid and off-grid solutions. With
respect to the former, the Bank's involvement will help Govemment establish a competitive and efficient
sector that can attract and sustain private investment in all segments of the business. With respect to the
latter, the Bank's involvement will help promote appropriate policy and implementation regimes for
renewables and to integrate initiatives by the private sector and community based organizations to deliver
access and more productive use of electricity to the rural poor.
Further, it is recognized that the Bank brings to bear a vast repertoire of world-wide knowledge and
practical experience, based on related projects being undertaken in Asian, African, and Latin American
countries. In other words, the Bank is able to bring to and adapt for Sri Lanka established intemational best
practice as well as emerging concepts being developed elsewhere. In particular, the Project team brings
together professionals with a range of expertise and experience with renewable energy projects in Uganda,
Laos, Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Bangladesh, South Africa, Argentina, and India, besides Sri Lanka.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
O Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Incremental Cost
* Other (specify)
Other (specify) NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
Since the project analysis has been carried out on a component basis, the 'other' option from available
choices for reporting economic analysis results has been selected.
Anecdotal evidence points to the likelihood that rural electrification based on renewable energy would bring
significant improvements in quality of life. At present, however, Sri Lanka lacks widespread experience
with rural power derived from renewables and has none at all of cross-sectoral energy applications. It is
therefore difficult to estimate at this time the two key elements of economic benefits - the consumer surplus
and the indirect benefits - that will be assessed as part of the monitoring and evaluation activities of this
Project
- 16 -



Economic Comparison of Grid and off-grid alternatives
Solar: SHS are least-cost alternatives for areas with dispersed populations and/or where grid extension is
expensive. Even in other areas, the costs of SHS compare favorably with those of grid expansion. The
solar component under this project would provide electricity to nearly 85,000 households at a capital cost
of nearly US$ 28.0 million (U3$ 330 per household). Extending the grid to the rural areas in Sri Lanka, on
the other hand, would cost about US$350 per connection, not counting the cost of generation investment -
which is at least US$500 per FKW. At this greater cost however, grid electricity provides a different and
better level of supply and service and has a much higher impact on economic development and social
well-being than electricity froTn off-grid services, especially solar. The latter supports a very basic level of
service, mainly lighting, which is also the dominant use among rural households. Most of them are
low-intensity consumers, using less than 50 kWh per month, mainly for lighting purposes, a level of service
consistent with the power available from solar/hydro off-grid systems to illuminate by using low-watt
fluorescent lamps. Also, this Project is looking at strategies to increase the impact of renewable electricity
sources on economic development and social well-being. To a limited extent, therefore, the Project could
also produce the economic ancl social benefits generally associated with grid-supplied electricity. An
example of this comes from Carnbodia where solar panels are powering donated computers in about 40
village elementary schools, with plans to extend such provision to 200 schools eventually.
Mini-Hydro: The economic aWalysis carried out for a recent mini-hydro project in Sri Lanka shows 24
percent EIRR under standard assumptions.
Villau-e Hvdro: An incremental cost analysis for off grid village hydro that used a representative project
implemented under ESD found that the approach yields an incremental cost of about US$ 11,400 for an 1 1
kW system as compared to thc: levelized costs of kerosene and battery use by the beneficiary households.
An economic analysis yields a 12 percent EIRR.
The details of the analysis are at Annex 4.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = O/D (see Annex 4)
The Project faces two major financial issues. First, commercial debt finance for renewable energy
developers (grid-connected and off-grid) and consumers (solar pv) is still constrained, even though
significant progress has been mnade under the ESD Project. Part of the problem arises from the generally
limited level of development cf Sri Lanka's financial markets, and part stems from the lenders' view that
the risks associated with these activities are high. Second, it is important to ensure that the private sector
enterprises' need for grant funds declines over time, a principle that has been built into the Project design.
The grid-based micro-hydro developers have not received investment grants under the ESD Project, and
none will be provided in this Project; GEF grants for solar pv investments are expected to decline steadily
to zero by the end of this Project. Grants for village off-grid hydro systems are expected to decline over
time, but they are unlikely to be phased out completely at the end of this Project, as this form of rural
electrification is still not well established.
- 17 -



Financial analysis of alternatives:
Solar From householder's perspective the financial rate of return for investments in solar home system at
current prices and prevalent micro-finance lending rates in Sri Lanka is 7 percent. This compares
favorably with the rural household's savings rate.
Mini-hydro: The financial analysis of a typical mini-hydro project (1.5 MW, already implemented) yields a
FIRR of 21 percent to the developer. The return is fairly robust with regard to changes in power purchase
tariff.
Village Hvdro: The typical project used for analysis is an 1 kW village hydro project. The financial
analysis indicates a FIRR of 10 percent.
Fiscal Impact:
From the government's point of view, the off-grid provision of electricity has the additional advantage of.
requiring no public sector funding; the entire US$ 39.5 million is financed by private and commercial
sources.
3. Technical:
Biomass cogeneration projects - grid-connected as well as off-grid - are technical interventions new to Sri
Lanka. While the technology utilized has a proven track record in other countries and poses no major
technical issues, it will be utilized for the first time in Sri Lankan conditions.
As the main grid expands, it is likely to encompass some village hydro systems, raising the issue of how to
ensure that the Village Electricity Society (VES) remains financially whole. This "stranded asset" issue
has been flagged and will be addressed in the context of the Rural Electrification Policy as well as the new
Electricity Act and Regulations. One solution being considered is for the main grid operator to make a
buy-out offer to the VES which is at least sufficient to cover any outstanding loan balance. The VES could
also have the option of retaining some or all of its systems, and act as a retail intermediary. The Project
will provide technical assistance to evaluate these options and, in line with eventual findings on the number
of installations impacted, assist the Govermment to reach a feasible altemative.
4. Institutional:
There are no major institutional issues; the arrangements under the ESD Project have worked well and will
be continued in the Project.
One issue to be directly addressed by the Project is the current paucity of micro finance institutions (MFIs)
supporting off-grid investments such as solar and village hydro. The inability of the single participating
micro finance organization, SEEDS, to keep pace with solar sales has created a critical constraint on
market growth. The AU will facilitate efforts to bring more MFIs and consumer credit institutions into the
program by sponsoring an "innovation solicitation" process (see Annex 2 Text Box 2).
4.1 Executing agencies:
The DFCC Bank will execute the Project through the Administrative Unit, which is currently operating the
ESD Credit Program. This unit has been worling very smoothly, and both its capacity and safeguards are
being strengthened so that it can continue to perform to expectations.
4.2 Project management:
See 4.1 above. Project management is also by the DFCC Bank Administrative Unit. No issues.
- 18 -



4.3 Procurement issues:
There are no procurement issues. The Project will follow the established arrangements of the ESD Project,
which is being satisfactorily implemented. In addition to new sub-projects, this Project will finance
sub-projects developed under the ESD Project pipeline. Since this is a financial intermediation project,
there are no major direct procur ment of goods and works. The only significant procurement under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in respect of goods and works will be by the private
sector project developers of grid-connected wind, hydro and biomass sub-projects. These will follow Bank
guidelines. Compliance will be ensured through ex-post reviews and audits, except in cases where the
procurement is of value greater han prior-review thresholds, as described in Annex 6. In the case of
technical assistance, only small outlays for goods are envisioned. In respect of services and training, the
technical assistance will be administered by DFCC AU using both grant and credit funds. Since
procurement for sub-projects would be handled by Project developers consistent with the pace of their
sub-project implementation, and no large value technical assistance contracts are anticipated in the first
year of implementation, the "Procurement Readiness for Implementation" box in Section H2 has not been
checked.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The implementing entity, DFCC Bank, has a proven track record of good financial management and sound
project operating guidelines under the ongoing ESD Project. DFCC Bank has demonstrated capacity in
submitting project audit reports and informative quarterly project management reports to the Bank on a
timely basis.The Project will be using a Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) based disbursement process,
and the quarterly FMRs will include both physical and financial progress information.
Because of significant risk arising from the substantially increased scale of this Project in comparison to
the ESD Project, the DFCC Bank has agreed to take various risk mitigation measures. It will, for instance,
expand the scope of the project audit to cover independent physical verification of assets and
procurementlaccounting practices of the beneficiaries. Further, it will engage the services of consultants to
verify satisfactory installation oF the Solar PV systems (the most dispersed and transaction-intensive project
component) and will computerize its project accounting system.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps underilaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and. the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
The Project has been classified as category 'F' under the Bank's Environmental and Social guidelines.
Overall, the Project has substantial positive enviromnental and social effects, with potential negative
impacts limited to small-scale mini-hydro, biomass and wind energy plants. The existing environment and
social assessment and mitigation framework established and operated under the ESD project has been
reviewed and enhanced to cater to safeguards necessary for the enhanced scope. Monitoring safeguards
would be effected both through country-based enforcement and project-based community oversight
mechanisms.
As actual subprojects and sites are yet to be identified, environmental issues for specific subprojects cannot
be identified at this stage, but the information given below identifies generic environmental issues
associated with typical renewable energy systems proposed under this project. The Govermment has
prepared and adopted an Enviroamental and Social Assessment Framework based on which sub-project
specific EAs will be conducted once sub-projects have been identified. The Bank reviewed the draft
Framework, based on which the Government has adopted and disclosed a revised version which is
acceptable to the Bank. The framework was placed for public disclosure on February 26, 2002, both in the
- 19-



Public Information Center and in-country, as required by Sri Lankan National Environmental Act and IDA
guidelines. No significant issues have been raised.
The use of renewable energy technologies will yield net positive environmental impacts. SHS and village
hydro projects will result in the replacement of kerosene and other fuels currently used for lighting,
resulting in corresponding reductions in indoor air pollution. The expansion of grid-connected mini hydro
schemes and the introduction of wind power and biomass energy systems would likewise reduce the need
for fossil-fuel based power generation. Overall, the use of solar systems is benign from an environmental
point of view, with the only potential concern being proper disposal of lead acid or nickel-cadmium
batteries. Since the grid-connected mnii hydro as well as village hydro projects will be run-of-the river
schemes with virtually no water storage, long term impacts should be minimal. Commercial wind farms
could have minor environmental problems, particularly with regard to interference in migration patterns of
birds and noise caused by the aerodynamic interaction between the wind and turbine blades. To insure that
biomass power generation does not raise deforestation risks, the Government has decided that only
dedicated fuelwood plantations grown on agriculturally marginal lands will be used to supply the biomass
energy plants. Sri Lanka's stringent permitting system for transport of any type of locally grown timber
has been reasonably successful in controlling illegal timber felling and will be used to control illegal
deforestation. Biomass sub-project feasibility assessments will include environmental impact assessments
of lands identified for fuelwood plantations. While biomass energy systems pose a significant risk of
reasonably high levels of air pollution, it is anticipated that the emissions will be less polluting than fossil
fuel plants, considering the poor quality of petroleum fuels in Sri Lanka. The guidelines stipulated under
the Pollution Prevention Handbook will be used to establish emission standards for biomass energy plants.
The sub-project proponent will be responsible for conducting the EA based on Terms of Reference
developed by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA), according to the agreed Framework. This
process is consistent with World Bank environmental and public disclosure requirements. Although the
CEA's regulated EA procedure is less than a decade old, the CEA has made substantial progress in
evaluating EAs. Institutional strengthening of the CEA has been supported by projects financed by
USAID, NORAD, the Government of the Netherlands, ADB and the World Bank. The Bank is satisfied
that the CEA has the capacity to implement the environmental review process satisfactorily.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Based on the Environmental and Social Framework to be developed, project specific EAs will be conducted
once sub-projects are identified. Considering the simplicity and small scale of the proposed sub-projects for
which EAs will eventually be conducted, it is unlikely that any major or irreversible environmental imnpacts
will be encountered. Therefore, the most important aspect of the EA will be the EMP. The EMPs should
be prepared and finalized by the project proponent (for each sub-project), taking into consideration
comments from the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) during its review and clearance process. The
responsibility of monitoring the EMP rests with the CEA, as mandated by the National Environmental Act
of Sri Lanka.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: February 20, 2002
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
The Environmental and Social Assessment Framework has been subject to national consultations for a
- 20 -



period of 45 days, which is more than the mandated 30-day requirement under the National Environmental
Act. The public comments received have been considered in revising the Framework. Project specific EAs
will be subject to local consultations where all stakeholders of the sub-project are provided with an
opportunity to comment on the EAs, prior to environmental clearance by the CEA.
5.5 What mechanisms have been. established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Further community level disclosure and community based monitoring mechanisms will be developed during
project preparation for those sub-projects that are found to have significant environmental and social
impacts. Since relevant indicators are likely to be sub-project and area specific, they would be developed on
a case-by-case basis
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
With an emphasis on low-income rural households, the Project will include specific measures to enhance
rural development. In particular, it will encourage the solar-power industry to target lower income brackets
directly through provision of lower cost, smaller solar home systems, and indirectly through the provision
of institutional systems to public institutions. This incentive is embodied in the SHS subsidy design, which
will include a progressively lower cap on SHS system size (see section Fl and Annex 2 Solar Component
for a description of the subsidy mechanism). Benefits to households switching from kerosene to solar
lighting include greater convenience, improved safety, and improved indoor air quality. These benefits
favor women and children, who spend the most time indoors. The targeting of grants will extend these
benefits to women and children hi lower income households as well.
The Project also includes technical assistance aimed at encouraging small and micro businesses to improve
their operations through the use of electricity. In addition, TA to cross sectoral ministries such as Health
will provide benefits to the general population.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The Project preparation has been, and will continue to be highly participatory in nature, carried out in close
collaboration with the key stakeholder industry and NGO groups. In particular, the AU has coordinated
inputs from private sector and NGO groups listed below. Participation in preparing the Project has
followed the pattem established (luring ESD preparation and implementation of holding participatory, multi
stakeholder meetings to discuss project design and implementation issues. Specifically, the AU held several
meetings with key stakeholder groups to elicit ideas and concems regarding design of the Project.
Discussions on project design between the mission and project stakeholders that began during earlier ESD
supervision missions continued during preparation of this Project, including one-on-one and group
discussions with the following organizations:
-21 -



Private Sector:           Non-Governmental              Government
Organizations
Solar dealers              Energy Forun                Ministry of Power and Energy
Ministry of Finance
Participating Credit       Intermediate Technology     Ministry of Health
Institutions                Development Group (ITDG)   Ministry of Education
Ministry of Environment and
Mini and Village hydro      Sarvodaya Economic         Natural Resources
developers                  Enterprises Development
Services (SEEDS)            Samurdhi Authority
Most consulting firms active
in Renewable Energy and     Small Power Producers      University of Moratuwa
Social Mobilization         Association
Provincial Councils of the
Sri Lanka Solar Industries  Southern, Uva,
Bilateral and Multilateral  Association               Sabaragamuwa, Northwestern
and North-central provinces
Asian Development Bank      SiLnaBsns
Sri Lanka Business
Embassies of Norway,        Development Centre (SLBDC)
Sweden, United Kingdom,     Consultant and Professional
Denmark and Japan           Services (CAPS)
At the village level, the best example of the participatory nature of the ongoing and proposed project is in
the development of village hydro projects. These electricity grids are community developed with support
from a team of consultants with expertise in business development, technical design, and social
organization and development. Thus they follow a sector-specific Community Driven Development
approach. In particular, participation and consultation are built into the process by which communities
decide to participate in the off-grid lcomponent. The community reaches all decisions with regard to
electricity design, financing, tariffs,\maintenance of the systems and amount of electricity to be used by
each household in a participatory manner. Households purchasing solar systems have the same freedom as
any buyer of consumer appliances has to choose a particular system or supplier based on perceived
suitability, reliability, value, etc. With only one MEI now operating in the field, however, purchasing
households are severely limited in the financing arrangements they can make. Market assessment
conducted by the AU and the Participating Credit institutions monitor overall satisfaction among end-users.
These practices will be continued and strengthened, perhaps by facilitating the establishment of a consumer
organization for renewable energy system users.
The solar and hydro business communities have established Associations - the Solar Industry Association
and Small Power Producers Association - to advocate the industries' interest. These associations have
provided significant inputs on project design. Also project design ideas have been generated in the regular
stakeholder consultative meetings conducted by the AU under the ESD project. In addition to the ESD
Project, the proposed Project builds on projects and activities supported through other donor and
Govermment-funded channels. In particular, the UNDP/GEF-supported Renewable Energy and Rural
Electrification Capacity Building (RERECB) Project has made important contributions. For example, the
wind resource monitoring supported under the RERECB Project has proven to be a critical factor in
attracting private interest in wind power development and focusing that attention on the promising Puttalam
- 22 -



coastal region. Capacity building in renewable energy and energy efficiency, including training energy
managers in key private industries and developing university-level educational material, have also added to
the momentum behind renewable energy and energy efficiency in the country.
The ESD Project also has follo wed a collaborative approach with Provincial Councils such as with Uva
Province, as well as with Minis,tries such as the Ministry of Estate Infrastructure. In particular, the AU has
facilitated delivery of additional targeted support and incentives for solar PV investments in a manner fully
consistent with ESD Project objectives and procedures. This has had the result of providing Government
grant support in a comnpetitive, transparent environment which encourages commercial behavior. The
Project will both continue and expand on this precedent-setting approach.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
For general project design, see 46.2 above.
The Environmental and Social Akssessment Framework has identified the consultation process to be
followed in developing project specific EAs. The Project would seek to document the consultation and
communication process, pointing out what works and where it needs to be supplemented. In addition to the
strong participatory nature of the rural electrification program outlined above, the involvement of
community based organizations and NGOs would facilitate improving the productive use of electricity and
promote greater grass root level participation in formulating rual energy development options.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Project has been designed with a significant social mobilization component that insures that the
initiative for developing and implementing community off-grid renewable energy projects comes from the
village. Partner organizations like SEEDS, NGOs and socially active consulting and facilitating
organizations such as SLBDC and CAPS are at the forefront of community mobilization and project
development.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
Under the Project's cross-sectoral energy applications component, specific indicators will be developed to
assess the socioeconomic impact of electricity on rural households and beneficiaries. The baseline for such
indicators would be established through pre-project implementation surveys with impact being assessed
from results of periodic post-implementation surveys.
- 23 -



7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
---";--- Policy .                      , :   .- plicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                  0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     * Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                         * Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                             0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*       0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
It has been agreed with the Government of Sri Lanka that no sub-projects located in protected areas such as
forest reserves, national parks or sanctuaries, will be eligible for financing under the Project. Therefore it is
not likely that the Natural Habitats Safeguard Policy (OP/BP/GP 4.04) will be triggered. While the
Govermment has determined that all biomass supplies will be harvested from designated fuelwood
plantations located in agriculturally marginal lands, the Forestry Safeguard Policy (OP/GP 4.36) has been
identified as applicable to this project largely as a precautionary measure. The Pest Management (OP 4.09)
will be triggered in cases where it is proposed to use pesticides for developing fuelwood plantations. Based
on the experience of the ESD project it is unlikely that there will be any resettlement under the Project. In
the unlikely event that there is land acquisition and/or resettlement in a sub-project, the Government has
agreed to inform the Bank and follow the requirements of the Involuntary Resettlement Safeguard Policy
(OP/BP 4.30). In any case, such sub-projects are required to follow Sri Lanka's National Policy on
Involuntary Resettlement, which is similar to the Bank Guidelines under OP/BP 4.30. The Project will
finance only small, run-of-the-river hydro power projects of less than 10MW capacity. Therefore, dam
safety is not expected to be an issue. As a precautionary measure nonetheless, the Safety of Dams
Safeguard Policy (OP/BP 4.37) has been identified as applicable. The EA Safeguard Policy (OP/BP 4.01)
will be triggered under the Project and be fully addressed under the Environmental and Social Assessment
Framework,
All sub-projects will be subject to the EA process as outlined in the Environmental and Social Assessment
Framework. Each project specific EA will undergo the appraisal process outlined in the National
Environmental Act, and the CEA's environmental clearance is a prerequisite for disbursements to each
sub-project under the Credit Line. With the environmental clearance experience of sub-projects in the
IDA-financed ESD Project as a precedent and in light of the on-going institutional strengthening of the
CEA under the IDA-financed Environmental Action 1 Project, the Project will rely on procedures set out
under the NEA for environmental clearance. EAs of all subprojects that include resettlement, land
acquisition. biomass energy and/or mini hydro plants that exceed 5 MW will be reviewed and cleared by
IDA as well.
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Grid-connected renewable energy power generation. The 2002 tariff announcements under the SPPA
framework represent a major bieakthrough for renewable energy development. They include a floor price
so that the developer is guaranteed to receive 90 percent of the first year's tariff during the contract's
lifetime. The short-term volatili ty is addressed by calculating tariffs as an average of annual tariffs of the
past three years. Further, the Project will include TA to the regulator to ensure that the future lariff regime
is developed with appropriate incentives and security for economically viable grid-connected investments.
The availability of long-term financing to the developers is key to sustainability. The Project will support
PCIs to tap local sources of long-term financing.
Off-grid village hydro systems. Experience shows that the system of village ownership and operation of
hydro systems is working well ;o far in Sri Lanka, implying sustainable operations. At the same time, it
will be necessary to monitor their functioning closely to detect any problems that may arise and take timely
corrective action. The financial sustainability of the systems to be supported arises from relatively low
operational costs that can be covered from revenues, once capital costs and most development costs have
been partly subsidized with GEF funds. Furthermore, the emphasis on productive uses is expected to help
boost financial sustainability. While GEF capital-cost subsidies for additional schemes are expected to
decline over time, the need for such subsidies for future schemes, though reduced, will remain necessary
even at the end of this Project. Therefore, the establishment of a rural electrification subsidy mechanism as
proposed by the Government under its Rural Electrification Policy will be necessary and timely substitute
for grants now available under GEE. Another issue in relation to the sustainability of village hydros is that
of stranded assets, in case the glid is extended to an area served by village hydro systems. In order to
address this issue, the Government is considering use of a separate set of distribution system and
interconnection standards for sniall size rural systems so that village hydros can be interconnected to the
grid. The Project intends to assist the Government in establishing the rural electrification subsidy
mechanism, as well as develop strategies to deal with the interconnection of rural systems to the grid.
Solar PV systems. At present, three large companies have made significant investments (more than US$
1.0 million each) developing their distribution networks - an achievement seen in few other coumtries of Sri
Lanka's size. A fourth company that has not yet made significant investments is still considering its
options. Also, credit for solar svstem purchases to the end-user has become available through one of the
largest Micro Finance Institutionis (SEEDS). Together, these steps lay the foundations for sustainable
development, but there still remains a need for GEF subsidies - at a lower scale than in the ESD project -
in order for these companies to develop and grow into commercially viable ventures. Although it is essential
for GEF to have an exit policy f rom the solar PV market development, it is also clear that the private
sector, particularly foreign complanies that perceive local risks to be high, would prefer continued GEF
support beyond this project. Accordingly, an exit policy has been developed in consultation with
stakeholders. While complete phase-out of grants for SHS during the Project's lifetime is expected, grant
support for second-generation uses - for productive purposes and delivery of services - may continue to be
needed. However, such future grant requirements are likely to be met through government funding as
indicated above.
In addition to the above, two risk-mitigation measures against high GEF grant dependence are being
adopted: (i) the grant provision for smaller systems (10 to 19 Wp) will depend on the revenue contribution
of these systems to the total' industry revenue. If the revenue share is more than 30 percent of the total
industry revenue, then the GEF grant for such systems will be reduced to US$ 20/unit from the proposed
- 25 -



US$ 40/unit; and (ii) if for any product range a company gains more than 85 percent of the total market
share, that company will not receive any more GEF co-financing grants. The salient features of the solar
system grant program are summarized in the following box (Text Box 4).
Cross-sectoral Energy Applications. Given the lack of precedent and experience with cross-sectoral links,
sustainability will require close monitoring, and some adjustments may have to be made during the course
of implementation. The design of this component is flexible enough to accommodate these adjustments.
Text Box 4:
GEF Grant Design for Solar Home Systems
The grant mechanism under this Project reflects the objectives of the five main stakeholders:
(i) building a market around proven systems and ease of administration (DFCC AU);
(ii) reducing grants over time with a clear exit strategy (GEF);
(iii) providing incentives to deepen the market and enable access for rural poor (IDA);
(iv) assuring sustainability of successful product lines and increasing scale (Solar Industry);
(v) affording quality and choice at reasonable prices (Consumers).
The mechanism developed by adopting the above objectives precludes subsidies for already viable solar
products; limiting grants only to systems smaller than 6OWp during the first year, then only to those smaller
than 4OWp during years 2 and 3, and finally only to systems smaller than 2OWp during the last two years of
Project implementation. This mechanism specifically supports the extension of electricity services to poor
people in rural areas. It also promotes sustainability of the market since the subsidy-reduction scheme
would, at the end of the Project, ensure that less than 5% of the turnover of the solar-home system market
would be coming from grants. Post-Project grant needs would be funded from a rural electrification subsidy
mechanism that the Government of Sri Lanka has announced under its recent Rural Electrification Policy.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                     Risk Ratingo. .         Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Macroeconomic problems reduce demand          M         Risk is external to project.
for and increase cost of renewable energy
services.
Lenders perceive that renewable energy        M         Current ESD track record has provided
investments carry unacceptably high                     reasonable confidence, additional measures,
risks.                                                  such as capacity building to generate confidence
contemplated.
Long term lending constraint of PCIs          H         Complement lending resources through local
continues.                                              long term funding sources.
Deficiencies in Small Power Tariff setting    S         Establishment of regulatory mechanism now
recur.                                                  contemplated under sector reform process.
Village off-grid hydro development costs      M         Incorporate village hydro more
do not reduce over time.                                programmatically into energy planning and
provincial programs.
From Components to Outputs
Institutional market for solar PV fails to    M         Assist cross-sectoral ministries in designing
materialize and market for smaller                      appropriate energy guidelines and packages for
systems fails to develops.                              their service and institutional applications.
Design of grant regime to develop smaller
- 26 -



systems. Opening up of north and east as
potential markets.
Barriers to community wind and biomass      S        Build on social mobilization experience of
projects are not overcome.                           community hydro, capacity building, and
technical assistance.
Framework for wind and biomass projects    M         Ensure that initial projects are soundly
is unattractive to the private sector.               structured and demonstrate comnmercial
viability. Incorporate Carbon financing.
Volume of business for ESCOs sufficient    M         Technical assistance to PCIs and ESCOs to
for commercial viability.                            develop sound project pipeline.
Rural development ministries, provinces    H         Provision of technical assistance for dialog and
and private sector show interest in                  program development.
renewable energy projects.
Working capital financing could be         M         AU will issue stringent guidelines for working
misused by solar dealers.                            capital finance and carefully scrutinize such
requests. Working capital financing requests
are expected to be few in nunber.
Overall Risk Rating                         S        The overall risk mitigation approach is to
strengthen and utilize local resources,
capabilities and institutions, which is expected
to promote long-term sustainability.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The only controversial issues are the size of the Project in relation to the overall Sri Lanka portfolio and
whether this degree of support to renewables is justified. The Project should not be viewed only as a
renewable energy project. It seeks to promote private sector and community led implementation, while
touching on several key socioeconomic aspects critical to economic development, such as productive use of
energy resources, diversification of and reliance on indigenous energy resources, improvement of social
services delivery in rural areas, community mobilization and asset creation. Furthermore, the size of the
Project in relation to the nearly 100,000 households that will gain access to electricity is reasonable. That
this target will be achieved with little direct Government funding is notable. Almost the entire non-IDA and
non-GEF financing is being met by capital from private sector, village communities, households and
commercial banks. The Project is therefore leveraging a very high level of investment and participation, and
the resulting multiplier and economic development effects are much higher than those of the average
Govemment-implemented IDA project Furthermore, the Project will play a critical role in providing
resources for energy access to the northem and eastem parts of the country, where peace has been recently
restored and the rural infrastructure, including electricity, is badly in need of rehabilitation.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a)    Execution of the Administration Agreement between Sri Lanka and DFCC Bank, and the execution
of Participation Agreerments between Sri Lanka and at least two Participating Credit Institutions.
- 27 -



(b)    Satisfactory legal opinions addressed to IDA and IBRD (for GEF) from the Attorney General of
Sri Lanka regarding the due authorization, ratification and binding nature of the Administration
Agreement and the Development Credit Agreement or the Grant Agreement, as the case may be.
(c)    Satisfactory legal opinions addressed to IDA and IBRD (for GEF) from DFCC Bank's counsel
regarding the due authorization, ratification and binding nature of the Administration Agreement
and the IDA Project Agreement or the GEF Project Agreement, as the case may be.
(d)    Appropriate and necessary action has been taken by the Government to ensure that sufficient
allocations are made for Project expenditures for FY2002, which are not otherwise financed by the
Credit or the GEF Trust Fund Grant proceeds.
(e)    The Government has made available to DFCC Bank necessary funds for its share of Project
expenditures in FY2002 for the quarter following Project effectiveness.
(f)    Appropriate and necessary action has been taken by the Government to ensure that sufficient
allocations are made for Project expenditures to be incurred in FY2002 out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Legal Covenants
(a)    The Government shall develop standards for the recycling and disposal of batteries used in solar
home systems within two years of Project effectiveness.
(b)    The Government shall ensure that Investment Projects, which receive Sub-grants under the Project,
comply with the environmental, resettlement and social standards set forth in the Environment and
Social Assessment Framework.
(c)    Each Participating Credit Institution shall ensure that Investment Projects, which receive Sub-loans
under the Project, comply with the environmental, resettlement and social standards set forth in the
Environment and Social Assessment Framework.
Financial Covenants
(a)    The Government shall make adequate annual budgetary provisions for making available sufficient
Credit and Grant proceeds to the Administrative Unit for implementation of the Project.
(b)    The Government shall make adequate annual budget provisions for meeting its share of funding
under the Project. Such funds will be made available to the DFCC AU in a timely manner to
implement the technical assistance program smoothly.
(c)    The AU shall establish a computerized financial management system for the Project by March 31,
2003 and maintain it throughout the Project implementation period.
(d)    The AU shall prepare and furnish FMRs to IDA no later than 45 days after the end of each
quarter.
- 28 -



(e)    The AU shall appoint a Project auditor by November 30, 2002, with terms of reference satisfactory
to IDA.
(f)    The Governnent and the AU shall submit audited annual financial statements of the Project
accounts before June 30 of each year.
(g)    The Government shall. furnish to IDA by September 30 each year, the results of an independent
evaluation of the continued eligibility of each PCI under the Project. The Government shall
suspend the right of ireligible PCIs to participate in the credit program, and take such other actions
agreed with IDA, to recover loans made to ineligible PCIs.
H. Readiness for Implementation
0L 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
OL 1. b) Not applicable.
O 2. The procurement docurn-rts for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
1 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
Ol 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Banik Policies
1 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Li 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank; policies.
Subramaniam   . Iyer              Penelope JA B 0                   Mariana Todorova
Team Leader                       Sector Manag'J                     Country ManagerlDlrector
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
-                         KeyPerfornmance        Data Collection Strategy
K . ioetrahofObjectives,.1        Indicators      ,        ,      - '.    -     - CritLcatlissutiptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
1.0 Invigorate rural economy, 1.0 Improved living     1. 1 National Poverty     Govermment maintains a
empower and build assets for  conditions, rise of rural  Assessments.            commitment to rural poverty
the poor, promote rural   income and enhanced                                   reduction
economic development and   economic and social activity.  1.2 Public expenditure review
well being.                                                                      Private sector continues to
1.3 Govemment reports,    invest in rural areas
including Central Bank
annual reports.            Macroeconomic stability
maintained
1.4 Dialogue with GOSL,
donors, and other relevant
stakeholders.
2.0 Promote establishment of  2.1 Progress on sector reforms 2.1 Sector reports and  Govemment maintains
a competitive electricity                             dialogue.                  commitment to undertake
industry with significant  2.2 Increased private                                 meanignful sector reformns
private sector participation.  investments in various parts  2.2 Review of investment data and invite private sector
of the sector              in power sector.           participation.
GEF Operational Program:
1.0 Promote adoption of    1.1 Proportion of electricity  1. 1.1 Project implementation  Project interventions will
renewable energy by        capacity being derived from  reports and sector statistics.  enable barrier removal
removing market barriers and renewables.
reducing implementation                                                           Rural households prefer to
costs.                     1.2 Number of rural        1.2.1 Customer surveys.    connect to renewable energy
consumers served by                                   sources rather than wait for
renewable energy systems.  1.2.2 Household surveys.   grid connections.
1.2.3 Monitoring &
evaluation program outputs
2.0 Reduce greenhouse gas  2.1 Quantity of C02 avoided. 2.1.1 Project implementation  Addition of incremental
emissions                                             reports                    capacity in Sri Lanka is based
2.1.2 Sector Studies       on fossil fuels
- 30 -



I-  -  Kt e_y Perfdronance  - Dati "colIectlbn Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives '        Indibatos.                  .|,1  .           Critical Assumptions
Project Development       Outcome / Impact          Project reports:          (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                Indicators:
1.0 Expand commercial     1.1 Sustainability of     1. I. I Baseline survey and  Continued expansion of solar
provision and use of      renewable energy as a     periodic monitoring and    and village hydro markets.
renewable energy          commercial business ensured  evaluation supported by the
at the end of project lifetime. project.            Sector reform provides clear
mandate and support for rural
1.2 Additional 85 MW of   1.1.2 Review of government  operation of grid and off-grid
grid-connected electricity  development plans for rural  rural networks.
power generation capacity  areas.
installed.                                          Commercial financing for
renewable energy is
1.3 Electricity access to                           facilitated.
100,000 households and 1,000
rural small and medium                               Rural businesses embrace
enterprises and public                              renewable energy as
institutions directly through                       financially viable.
off-grid systems (solar,
community hydro and
biomass).
2.0 Foster rural economic  2.1 Incomes of households  Review of household income  Provision of electricity access
development and improve   gaining access to electricity  reports .             leads to higher economic and
quality of life through access                                                social well-being.
to electricity            2.2. Income generating    Quarterly progress reports and
initiatives facilitated by the  Project supervision reports.
provision of electricity
Monitoring & evaluation
2.3 Number of electricity use  program outputs
strategies developed for
improving delivery of
products and services
- 31 -



d Key PerforMance          lData ColiectiongStriteby    A.
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators       j                         I   Critical Assumtptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:        Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1.0 Grid-connected hydro,  1.0 85 MW grid connected  Quarterly Progress Reports.  Small power project tariffs are
wind, Biomass.            renewable energy plants.                            certain and stable
Project Supervision Reports.
2.0 Off-grid solar PV     2.0 85,000 Solar households                         Lenders perception of the risk
household systems         connected.                Monitoring & evaluation   profile of renewable energy
program outputs           investments improves.
3.0 Standalone mini grid  3.0 15,000 households are                           Village off-grid hydro
systems to serve remote   connected to mini-grids                             development costs remain
villages                                                                       stable.
4.0 Energy efficiency and  4.0 3 4 private energy                             Long-term lending constraint
DSM strategies to be      service companies are in                            of PCIs are removed
implemented.              operation.
5. 0 Public service institutions 5.0 1,000 institutions and                    Macroeconomic problems that
and rural industrial,     enterprises are supplied by                         reduce demand and increase
commercial enterprises are  renewable energy sources                           cost of renewable energy
served by renewable energy                                                     services are eliminated.
systems.
6.0 Technical assistance to  6.0 Project development                           Public acceptance of
promote use of renewable  opportunities identified and                        renewable energy technologies
energy                    developed, market barriers                           continues to grow.
reduced and energy planning
for other sectors
systematically introduced.
Global environment benefits.  1.25 million tons of carbon
avoided.
- 32 -



= ,-  '  ,,'      |1~,  ,'K'e,y'lPermince'     I Dai C,oilectio'n 'Stratergy|
Hlerarchy of Objectives, J       Indicators,       j              , - .          Critical Assumptions
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1.0 Grid Connected Hydro,  1.0 Total cost US$ 90.3   Quarterly Progress Reports  Framework for wind and
Wind, Biomass              million of which IDA US$                            biomass projects is attractive
49.2 million              Project Supervision Reports  to the private sector.
2.0 Solar PV Investments   2.0 Total cost US$ 28.3   Monitoring & evaluation   Institutional market for solar
million of which IDA US$  program outputs            PV materializes and market
18.8 million;                                        for smaller systems develops.
GEF lS$ 3.9 million
Working capital financing
properly used by solar dealers
3.0 Community investments - 3.0 Total cost US$ 4.4                              Barriers to community wind
hydro, wind, biomass       million of which IDA US$ 3.6                        and biomass projects are
millionq                                             overcome.
4.0 Energy Efficiency and  4.0 Toital cost US$ 1.0 million                      Volume of business for
DSM                        of which IDA US$ 0.6                                 ESCOs sufficient for
million.                                             commercial viability
5.0 Cross-sectoral Energy  5.0 Toial cost US$ 4.6 million                       Rural development ministries,
Applications               of which IDA US$ 2.3                                 provinces and private sector
milliorn;                                            show interest in renewable
GEF US$ 0.8 million                                  energy solutions
6.0 Technical Assistance   6.0 Toxal cost US$ 5.1 million
of which IDA US$ 0.5
million;
GEF U-S$ 3.3 million
- 33 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Overview
The Project design aims to build a sustainable market for renewable energy through IDA and GEF support.
Of the six distinct elements in the Project, the four that support grid-connected and off-grid generation of
energy from renewable sources all have antecedents in the ESD project launched in 1997. Accounting for
nearly 90 percent of total Project costs, these four components build on the success of the ESD project laid
in small hydro, wind and solar power and in promoting energy efficiency. This Project seeks progression in
scaling up investments in these components and introduce initiatives to develop grid connected wind and
biomass projects, off-grid wind and biomass projects, and cross-sectoral impacts for economic development
and improved delivery of such social services e.g. health and education. In addition, technical assistance for
policy development, second-generation performance based subsidy design and energy services are new
features.
A summary of the Project components and financing plan is described in section C of the PAD. The DFCC
Bank AU will be the implementing agency on behalf of the Ministry of Finance. The AU will administer
the IDA Credit program to refinance subloans made by Participating Credit Institutions (PCIs) to
Investment Projects or subprojects, developed and implemented by the private sector, village communities
and NGOs. The AU will also administer the GEF grant program to co-finance development of off-grid
investment projects, develop new renewable energy applications and technical assistance for an array of
activities described later in this Annex. The Project's credit program will utilize the same structure as the
highly satisfactory ESD program. PCIs currently include development banks, commercial banks, and one
large micro-finance institution. The PCIs use their standard procedures to appraise and finance
subprojects. Eligible subprojects are then refinanced in accordance with the Operating Guidelines (see
Annex 12). Figure A-1 summarizes the flow of credit funding. Under this Project, new PCIs will be
encouraged to enter the credit program in compliance with the Operating Guidelines.
Figure A. I RERED Credit Program Structure
Patiin CMicro FinanceiillageitVilgeEecriiato
Institutions      Society or Household
Participating Credit
In   Institution (
(e.g. DFCC, Hatton, etc)
_Project Sponsors
IDA
Participating CreditVilgEecfiato
! _ Institution / Mficro Finance Soilaet olcrificationd
l   Institution (e.g. SEEDS)   Sceyo oshl
Administrative Unit
The GEF grant for technical assistance will have two windows, cost-shared and full-cost, both operated by
the DFCC AU. The cost-shared scheme will support existing renewable energy organizations if the
- 34 -



proposed projects directly contribute to achieving the technology objectives (see below). It will not include
support for hardware and will be offered to a company no more than twice. Full cost TA activities would
require endorsement by a majority of key stakeholders in the relevant technological areas. The regular
stakeholders meetings chaired by the AU will provide the decision forum for such activities. The AU- with
support of independent experts if required - will approve the activities up to US$ 100,000. Applications for
more than US$ 100,000 will need approval from the World Bank. The TA projects would be appraised in
accordance with the Operating Guidelines (see Annex 12).
A detailed description of the Project by component follows.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$90.30 million
Grid-connected Hydro, Wind and Biomass
Baseline: At the start of the ESD project in 1997, only a few companies had managed to negotiate power
purchase contracts with the Ceylon Electricity Board (CEB), a process that required substantial time and
effort on both sides. CEB and the developers did, however, acknowledge the potential for commercially
viable mini hydro projects in more than two dozen Letters of Interest signed for promising locations.
Technical expertise for the mini hydro projects was available because of the considerable number of large
hydro systems in Sri Lanka, but financing proved difficult because of the unavailability of longer-term
funds. Similarly, at the start of the ESD project, the very limited experience with wind energy in Sri Lanka
was confined to the few initiatives implemented mainly with the support of donors. One NGO had been
developing small household/village scale wind systems suitable for the Sri Lankan market. No biomass
projects had been supported under the ESD project or otherwise.
The ESD Intervention: (a) Small hydro- The ESD project, focusing on ways to reduce the transaction
cost of the individually negotiated power purchase agreements with the CEB, supported the development
of a Standardized Power Purchase Agreement that included a formula-based tariff calculation following
avoided cost principles that was up-dated and published annually. Furthermore, the project supported the
Participating Credit Institutions with long term financing for mini hydro investments in particular. (b) Wind
- The ESD project demonstrated the technical and economic viability of large-scale wind operations and
worked to attract initial private sector involvement through a transparent and open bidding process.
Progress made during ESD: (a) Small-hydro - The combination of the Standard Power Purchase
Agreement and the availability of long-term credit contributed to a rapid increase in mini-hydro installed
capacity from about 1 MW in 1997 to nearly 30 MW at the end of 2001. In addition to gaining necessary
technical and managerial skills, the private investors have strengthened their position in the market and with
CEB by establishing a Small Power Association. At the same time, PCIs have acquired sufficient
experience to gauge with heightened confidence the risks and potential of mini-hydro investments. (b)
Wind - A 3 MW demonstration plant designed to supply about 4.5 GWh annually was commissioned in
March 1999 with GEF support and has been operating successfully. Intemational bidding resulted in a
competitive unit cost of about US$ 1,200/kW. The wind farm is successfully interconnected to the CEB
grid and operates at an average capacity factor of 14 percent, which is lower than the projected value of 17
percent
Business enviroment for the Froject: (a) small-hydro - the investment climate for mini hydro projects
continues to be favorable. At the end of 2001, seven private developers were operating 15 projects. The
- 35 -



tariff formula for the Standard Power Purchase Agreement provides a floor price for the tariff equivalent to
90 percent of the first year's tariff and sets tariffs as a rolling average of three year values. These
measures along with the CEB's good payment record provides confidence and certainty to developers and
financiers. Under these conditions, a quadrupling of the current installed capacity of 30 MW is attainable
in the next five years. PCIs are actively considering eight projects that would add approximately 40 MW
of capacity, and the mini-hydro industry anticipates developing as much as 100 MW in the coming five
years, given that the Project eligible size has been increased to 10 MW from 5 MW under ESD. CEB's
declining creditworthiness is a risk that could undermine the program. The fact that the Government is
addressing this issue through a reform program provides some mitigation (see Section B 2 of the PAD for
details). (b) wind - there is considerable private sector interest in developing wind power projects at
several promising sites in Sri Lanka In response to this interest, the Govern ment has formally invited
expressions of interest from potential developers through an advertisement in February 2002. The
solicitation is in respect of two sites, Puttalam and Hamnbantota, On these sites, nearly 40 MW of capacity
is possible, of which this Project envisages support for about 20-25 MW project. CEB has developed the
requisite capacity to adopt the standardized small power purchase agreement and tariff setting for projects
smaller than 10 MW to a project of this scale as well as manage the interconnection requirements. (c)
biomass - based on currently available biomass resources and large areas that could be used as plantations,
the total theoretical potential for biomass electricity is estimated to be around 1,800 MW. It is estimated
half a million hectares of scrub and hena lands in Sri Lanka could - in a sustainable manner - provide 10
million tons of fuel wood yearly, enough to fuel 1,700 MW of small to medium biomass based power
stations at a plant factor of 67 percent. In addition, of the approximately 635 operational tea factories in
Sri Lanka, nearly 300 have a good potential for modernization that could include the introduction of
modem co-generation technologies. The total potential for the'tea sector is anticipated to be in the range of
80-100 MW. The sugar, coconut, rice and wood industries could, on a considerably smaller scale, also
contribute to biomass based electricity generation. Biomass technologies are yet to be demonstrated on a
commercial scale consistent with the available potential in Sri Lanka. The business environment for grid
connected biomass plants will thus have to be developed and this Project intends to attempt this task by
supporting selected transactions that have potential for commercial success.
Project vision and targets: (i) mini-hydro - the mini hydro industry will continue to expand its operations
on a profitable basis, drawing on newly available, local long-term funds while at the same time providing
least cost power to the national grid. The Project aims at seeing at least 50MW of new capacity added
within the next five years. Bundling of facilities will allow the developers to guarantee a solid capacity
year-round thereby not only providing least cost power but also strengthening the base load capacity in the
country. Limited wheeling will be allowed to match production profiles with loads; (ii) wind - the wind
industry will be led by the private sector and will enjoy active Government support and effective national
policy and regulations including transparent tariff setting. Through effective strategies, the market will be
developed - adding about 20-25 MW of capacity - as an integral part of the country's plan to expand
generation for grid-connected systems. The Carbon Mechanisms offered on the international market will
have been tapped and Sri Lanka will be one of the lead countries in accessing these funds; (iii) biomass -
tapping into its large potential of locally available resources, biomass-based electricity generation will grow
by about 12 MW over five years, promoting rural development by adding value through the usage of
biomass supply contracts In line with these targets, nearly half of the approximate US$ 90 million value of
this component is expected support hydro projects and the balance shared more or less equally between
wind and biomass projects.
- 36 -



Barriers to overcome: (i) mini-hydro - even though growth of these activities has been substantial, long
term sustainability requires: (a) boosting the amounts of local long-term financing; (b) reforming the power
sector to establish a transparent and independent pricing mechanism for the SPPA through the regulator;
and (c) improving the creditworthiness of CEB or its successor entities. (ii) wind - critical barriers to full
commercialization include: (a) the absence of regulation, including tariff setting for commercial
development of larger than 10 MW wind projects; (b) weak transmission grid in certain wind-rich areas of
the country; and (c) limited private sector players and capacity in Sri Lanka; (iii) biomass - arnong the high
barriers on the road to expansion are: (a) limited experience with the technology in Sri Lanka; (b)
underdeveloped biomass supply chain; (c) lack of experience with financing biomass projects, (d) limited
awareness and experience amoing stakeholders and.(e) developing and using fuel wood plantations in an
environmentally and socially responsible manner.
Project strategy for intervention:
Investments: This component will continue support for grid-connected and captive renewable energy
investments through the PCIs by providing long term financing similar to the support provided under the
ESD project. Mini-hydro development will continue to be led by the private sector, with PCIs making at
least 20 percent of the needed ]long-term loans, on the strength of the Small Power Purchase Agreement and
tariff from CEB. The AU will process refinance applications and facilitate funds flow as needed.
Technical Assistance: TA - both cost-shared and full-cost - will directly support the main objective of
commercializing wind and bio:rnass energy systems. Greater emphasis will be on cost-shared activities,
with full-cost activities being the exception.
*      The cost-shared scheme - ranging from 20 to 80 percent of company contributions - will support
such activities as: (a) 14ind training of technicians and management, resource analysis, and peak
load/supply studies; and (b) biomass: detailed feasibility studies for tea and coconut processing
factories' energy, audits combined with pre-feasibility studies for tea/coconut processing factories,
and detailed feasibility studies for up to four small dendro-based projects
*      The full-cost scheme could support: (a) wind: development of technical specifications and/or
macro-level wind mapping. New companies in the sector could receive a one-off preparation grant
up to US$ 9,000 for business plan development. The project will support a maximum of three
business plans. (b) biomass: (i) tariff adjustment, especially issues related to installed capacity
payment; (ii) standard biomass fuel supply contracts; (iii) training, human and institutional
capacity building in both supply and generation; (iv) awareness (e.g. study tours) and information
generation and dissemination; (v) regulatory issues (third party sales, wheeling); and (vi) policy
issues (including biomass-based electricity in energy policy/plan). New companies could receive
the samne business plan development support as in the wind sector up to the same limit of three
business plans.
Transparent, rule-based, proJessional administration, enforcement andfacilitation. The project will
continue in an enhanced and reinforced fashion the transparent implementation and compliance framework
managed by the AU under the ESD project. The effort would include: (i) developing working arrangements
with the industry; (ii) facilitating and managing technical assistance in close coordination with main
stakeholders; (iii) arranging independent verifications; and (iv) data gathering and reporting, and
implementation/monitoring roles.
- 37 -



Monitoring and Evaluation: AU quarterly progress reports will continue to be the main instrument of
monitoring progress on all grid-connected projects. Formats and indicators developed under ESD will be
employed for hydro projects, whereas similar but more detailed monitoring and evaluation process will be
developed for wind and biomass project investments and TA.
Project Component 2 - US$28.30 million
Solar PV Investments
From zero to mini-boom: ESD has helped transform the reality and the prospects of the private solar
power industry in Sri Lanka, to the point that sales - negligible when ESD began in 1997 -- have
skyrocketed (see graph 1) from fewer than 30 systems per month in 1998 to about 1,300 systems in
December 2001 for a cumulative total of over 15,000 systems installed at the end of 2001. At that time,
the three main companies were each reporting monthly sales in the range of 400 - 800 systems. The fourth
company has sales on the order of 100 - 120 systems per month. By way of contrast, private investment in
the solar PV sector in Sri Lanka had been minimal before 1997. One company in particular had been
making vain efforts for close to 10 years to develop its PV business, but the company was not growing, and
there were few established sales and service outlets in rural areas. Although several NGOs had been
pursuing pilot, demonstration-type efforts, commercial development had not followed. Unit prices were
high. No financial institutions offered consumers credit for SHS purchases, and no widely applied
technical standards provided a basis for consumer protection arrangementsNotwithstanding power
shortages, politicians continued to promise constituents in unconnected villages that the grid would be
extended to their areas.
The ESD intervention: In that setting, the ESD project worked to make solar systems affordable by
targeting the interlocking barriers of high unit costs and prices and low sales volumes with an output- based
subsidy that reduced the consumer's first cost and a refinance facility to ease credit to buyers. Other
support went to technical assistance for promotion and business development and for the transparent
administration of the rules for technical standards and subsidy payments. Among the key features of ESD
project interventions were: (a) grant subsidies channeled to the companies based on their sales performance
and not linked to costs or retail prices; (b) partial mitigation of the forex risk through the
dollar-denominated GEF grant arrangement - now on the order of 50-55 percent of the direct foreign
exchange costs of the companies' payments to their suppliers of system components; (c) the technical
specifications and verification arrangements that provide a world-class consumer protection framework that
also encourages fair competition; (d) transparent, rules-based, professional administration of grant
payments and enforcement of technical and other requirements that reinforces commercial discipline; and
(e) flexible design with changes introduced in response to implementation experience based on reports and
information brought together by the AU and the findings of Bank supervision missions. The most critical
change introduced during ESD implementation was the modification of eligibility criteria to permit a
non-bank microfinance organization to be a PCI.
- 38 -



Graph I
Actual Solar Home Systems Sales exhibits
exponential growth
e22
E
o
10
0
'98    '99      00o    '01    '02
Progress made during ESD: The project has scored significant progress in building a platform for the
growth of a sustainable, commercial market for SHS. Sales, number of professional dealers, investments
and sales outlets, consumer financing, product quality, price trends, consumer awareness, and a provincial
government as market enabler have all evolved to the point that, as of the second half of 2001, dealers are
operating on a profitable basis with high gross margins generating funds for continued development and
attractive returns to equity (27 to 57 percent). Although no company has as yet been operating at this level
of sales for a full year, in the years before 2001, the operating profits of two of the large companies would
have been negligible at best. In that period, they were moving up the learning curve and the lack of
adequate consumer financing was holding sales down. The third large company entered the market only in
mid-2001, but with its own consumer credit capacity and the availability of the supplementary grants from
the Uva Provincial Government. It is positioned to move quickly to profitable operations. The fourth
company is clearly profitable, as it has operated mainly on a trading basis, incurring only limited expense
of extending distribution capabilities. The attractive gross margins of the companies are somewhat offset
by cash flow issues. During the sales surge of the third quarter of 2001, the businesses' cash needs for
working capital rose sharply. With sales in Uva province accounting for an estimated 44 percent of the
increase, cash flow issues becamne of major concern as the provincial government delayed in making its
subsidy payments. Difficulties Faced by the main credit provider in keeping pace with rapid sales growth
has exacerbated the cash flow problem.
Also on the positive side, investments in SHS distribution from foreign and local companies have been
significant. Three of the comp;nies have each made investments estimated at US$ 1.0 - 1.5 million to
develop the systems, physical infrastructure and human resources for a commercial distribution network of
50 sales and service outlets with motivated sales forces, trained technicians, and good product and brand
awareness. From the consumers' standpoint, price discounting signals that competition is increasing. It is
estimated that the total sales revenue (retail price plus GEF grant of about US$ 100) has declined by nearly
20 percent from US$ 14/Wp for a 32 Wp system in 1999 to US$ 11.5/Wp for the 40 Wp system today.
One company has recently introduced 15-percent price discounting and its own consumer finance, seeking
to capture market share, an indicator that competitive pressures are increasing. Otherwise, the companies
offer more or less similar prices for their systems and are competing more on service and quality
considerations.
Business environment for the Project: The business environment for investment is relatively
encouraging, due to the supportive framework for development of SHS-based businesses. Specifically, a
legal and judicial framework for investment and contract enforcement, supported by professional
accounting and other services, has already enabled the two foreign companies to enter the market.
Additionally, a functioning cornmercial infrastructure for importing, banking and trading is in place, and no
- 39 -



generalized practice of rent seeking (unofficial fees or levies, exacting taxes on commercial businesses
operating in private markets) distorts transactions.
Several business environment aspects have specifically favored rural SHS market development: (a) the
existing base of commercial experience, including a number of respected, professional individuals in the
private and NGO sectors, facilitated new investor entry and provided the springboard for development.
New entrants were able to build on some ten years of pioneering efforts; (b) no significant govemrnment or
donor programs for pilot or demonstration SHS projects distracted the attention of the solar companies
from commercially based development; (c) rnual consumer expectations of grid connections have weakened
over recent years. Sri Lankans have learned that the power sector crisis, with 8-10 percent annual
increases in demand outpacing generation and transmission investments and frequent power cuts, holds no
short term solution in spite of incentives to small producers introduced in 1996; and (d) prices of diesel and
kerosene have been at competitive levels for solar.
Figure I Deepening the SHS market
i''
/ '
,'8.5%%\
current'
,  market '
50%     \
, Project market '
,/550.000 households\
100%
total off grid market
1,100,000 households
The potential household market for SHS in Sri Lanka remains largely untapped. Market assessments
indicate that around 1.1 million households will not receive electricity from the CEB grid by 2007. Of that
number -assuming the same solar system and price -- around 150,000 households (8.5 percent) could
afford the service (see figure 1). With a continued growth of sales from around 1,300 systems per month in
2002 to 3,000 per month in 2006, an additional 100,000 systems could be installed for a sustained sales
growth of some 20 percent per year. That expansion would be based on a 50-percent reinvestment of
company profits to support the continued sales growth and a parallel growth in available consumer finance.
In addition, institutional and community sales for schools, clinics and other public goods type applications
hold the potential for further growth.
Project vision and targets: The Sri Lankan solar industry could become a model for the development of
solar PV systems worldwide. Expanding on the successful market creation supported by the ESD project,
the Project's solar component will seek to: (a) sustain the existing solar home system market and build
further financing capacity to serve more communities; (b) deepen market penetration to poorer households
by offering smaller and more affordable solar home systems so as to provide, in all, solar services to
- 40 -



85,000 new customers over five years and an additional 1000 institutional systems from solar and village
hydros; and (c) expand service to other applications. Through effective strategies, the market will be
developed as the rural poor become fully aware of solar energy, and that success will, in turn, attract more,
coordinated donor assistance ancl lead as well as to the trading of carbon credits on the international
market. The active partnership between the public and private sectors will create a favorable environment
for market and investment opportunities for solar energy.
Barriers to overcome: With th- foundations laid for sustainable growth of the solar energy industry, it is
still critical to address such obstacles as (i) the small, fragile scale of the market in which only one solar
product (30 - 50 Wp solar home system) is offered; (ii) the equally precarious network of small dealers and
rural distribution; (iii) the lack o f outreach to poorer households and for non-home applications; (iv) the
limited availability of microfinarnce; and (v) the limited and uncoordinated involvement of provincial
governments.
Project strategy for interventi(In:
Investments: Building on the successful credit program established under the ESD project, the Project
would continue to make funds available to PCIs for refinancing of working capital to solar dealers, as well
as to qualified Micro Finance Listitutions (MFIs) for financing households' solar purchases. The project
will provide refinance to the PCIs on the termns provided under ESD, including refinance at an 80-percent
level with compound maturities. To support additional investment, the Project will offer output-based
subsidies on an incentive basis to be disbursed only after confirmation of installation. The mechanism will
broadly follow ESD implementation arrangements, but on a declining basis per system. The subsidies will
be US$ 2.3/Wp for a reducing capacity rating (Wp) per system over time. During the first year of
operations co-financing will be provided for systems ranging from 10-60 Wp and have a cap of 30,000
systems in the 40 to 60 Wp rnmge. During the second and third year of operations, subsidies will be
provided for systems up to 104-0 Wp, but will be limited in the final two years to systems ranging from
10-20 Wp (Table 1).
Table 1
Output based GEF co-financing grant release mechanism
Yr I   Yr 2   Yr 3   Yr 4   Yr 5
40- 60 Wp systems     70      0      0     0       0
20- 39 Wp ;ystems     70     70     70     0       0
10- 19 Wp; ystems     40     40     40     40     40
For a description of the proposed subsidy regime, see also section F 1 of the main PAD.
Technical assistance for solar s:ystems will follow the exact pattem and set of purposes as for
grid-connected mini- hydro, wind and biomass outlined above in the discussion of Component 1. Activities
that could be supported on a cost-shared basis include market testing of an improved SHS system,
adaptation of an innovative MIS system that will reduce company cost, and the design of a barter-based
solar program currently operating in Nepal. Full-cost TA would enable new companies in the sector to
receive a one-off preparation grint for business plan development up to US$ 9,000. This support would
focus particularly on companies entering the market for water pumps, health centers, schools, and telecom
as well as new entrants with innovative arrangements to deepen the SHS like fee-for-service or leasing.
Technical specifications to ensure consumer satisfaction of the systems offered. The Project will continue
to use the industry-accepted teclmical specifications established under the ESD project, reviewing
- 41 -



specifications, as needed, to accommodate smaller systems. In addition, specifications will be revisited and
modified as required based on field experience. Products that meet PV-GAP standards or recommendations
will also be accepted. For institutional systems specifications will be based on standardized packages
prepared under the cross-sectoral component.
Transparent, rule-based, professional administration, enforcement andfacilitation. The project will
continue in an enhanced and reinforced fashion the transparent implementation and compliance fiamework
managed by the AU under the ESD project. The effort would include: (a) developing working arrangements
and developing and managing TA in close coordination with the SIA; (b) setting technical specifications
and performance for non-home applications; (c) continuing the AU's arrangements for independent
verifications and transparent grant payments; and (d) continue the AU's data gathering and reporting, and
implementation monitoring roles.
To be effective, the interventions will require deft management, and, most likely, continual fine tuning in
line with market development experience. There is confidence in the DFCC AU's capacity to implement
this and other interventions professionally. It is expected that the AU would sub-contract to professionals
or other organizations on a task basis, on terms acceptable to the Bank, much of the support, including
technology related reviews. Also, the AU would seek ways in which its intemal processes can be
streamlined, possibly to include pushing some of the data entry work on sales currently done by the AU to
the Solar Industry Association and its members.
Flexible design of the program. The project has been designed to facilitate market innovations and
developments to reach the ultimate goal of achieving a sustainable, renewable energy market in Sri Lanka.
In decisions on the utilization of TA, stakeholders - facilitated by the AU - have been given maximum
leverage.
Monitoring and evaluation. Component progress will be monitored by the AU and included in the
quarterly progress reports.
Project Component 3 - USS 4.40 million
Community-based Hydro and Biomass Energy
The community-based component builds on the successful implementation under ESD of village hydro
projects, widening the scope however to such other renewable energy technologies as biomass and,
possibly, wind.
Baseline: (i) Village Hydro: Prior to ESD, the Intermediate Technology Development Group, an NGO,
pioneered village hydro development through projects developed with its technical and social assistance and
financed by a combination of sweat equity and donor grant funding. That work effectively proved the
technical and social viability of the concept, and market assessments indicated a large potential market A
survey carried out in seven districts of Sri Lanka identified 853 sites suitable for construction of village
hydro systems, of which 444 were found technically viable with a potential installed capacity of about 18
MW; (ii) Community Biomass: Results from a study carried out in 2001 by the Energy Forum
(implementation of a WB/GEF PDF A) revealed substantial community level interest in biomass electricity.
Currently there are some limited initiatives underway in Sri Lanka. With support from several donor
organizations, Government research and development organizations have designed pilot projects and are in
the process of establishing testing sites. The Mvinistry of Science and Technology, Alternative Energy
Division, is commissioning a 35 kWe gasification system as a pilot project to generate electricity in single
-42 -



fitel mode.
The ESD intervention: Village Hydro: The ESD project aimed to commercialize the development of
village hydro projects allowing the projects to become less dependent on grant funds. Funding under ESD
was a blend of commercial funds, co-financing grants, project preparation grants, supervision grants, and
TA for innovations. ESD did not include any interventions on biomass energy.
Progress during ESD: Credit aad grant support from the ESD project has helped establish28 village
mini-grids ranging from 4 - 45 kW, serving about 1,400 households.. This blend of financing has led to a
nearly 50 percent reduction in grant funds per project, leveraging twice the number of beneficiaries.
Following the initial gains in pipeline development, however, progress slowed. Concems about this leveling
off gave rise to the "innovation solicitation" process described in Text Box 2. Reinvigorated by this
solicitation, the village hydro praject preparation grants became a strong incentive for steep growth in this
area.
Over the project's life, a small decrease in costs has meant an average of US$ 1550/kW for projects under
implementation and US$ 1425/kW for those under consideration. This decline is attributable to a drop in
the costs of such equipment as tuirbines and PVC pipes as well as to higher cunrency devaluation compared
to product cost inflations. The average cormection cost was found to be in the range of US$
300-500/household.
Business environment for the E'roject: (i) Village Hydro: The environment for developing village hydro
projects is favorable. Villagers who have lost their confidence that the national utility will extend the grid
to their village in the near future are willing to invest in such power systems. The favorable perception is
reinforced by the record of more than 130 operating village hydro projects in the country, familiarity with
the technology involved,positive word-of-mouth advertising and contacts by developers. The Government is
working on a policy change to a] low village projects to sell electricity to CEB if the grid is extended to their
area. Since it is clear that new projects will continue to require co-financing grant support for preparation
and implementation, the governrent will need to establish alternative funding mechanisms to operate after
the Project ends. Risks involved are: (a) the interest of NGOs/Consultants in developing new projects may
decrease because of the decrease in grant levels under the Project; (b) some PCIs have indicated that
image-building is the main business consideration in providing support for village hydros, not -- by itself-
an incentive guaranteed to sustain their interest in village mini-grid projects; and (c) While preparing new
projects, developers take into account CEBs grid extension program. Any uncoordinated grid expansion in
one of the provinces rich in village hydro potential could seriously impact the program.
Project vision and targets: (i) Village Hydro: The Project aims to support about 100 village hydro
installations, serving about 5000 households. At the sarne time, a sustainable subsidy mechanism, one
which does not depend on GEF or on ad-hoc donor support, must be in place by Project close. Taking the
place of international support, a transparent rural electrification subsidy mechanism established by local
and national government will allocate and disburse funds along performance based principles as adopted
under the ESD project. A large portion of village hydro electricity will be used to generate income, thus
giving villagers added reasons to support the development. Project developers will have optimized the
preparation activities through further standardization and bundling of projects. The village hydro
electrification model will be used for other technologies as well, including biomass, and - for some of the
developers - as a guide to work in support of village hydro programs in other countries. (ii) Biomass:
Biomass-based electricity generation - planned for introduction in 25 village power systems averaging 40
kWe each - has a large potential to contribute to of-grid sustainable electricity supply. Use of locally
available resources will add value to rural Sri Lankan economic development through building a biomass
- 43 -



energy supply chain and reducing imports of fossil fuels. Since off-grid applications do not require hydro
resources, large areas of the country without hydro resources can become part of the process and gain basic
infrastructure for economic development
Barriers to overcome: (i) Village-Hydro: Even though substantial progress has been made during the
ESD project, several factors still impede accelerating the increase in the number of village hydro projects.
Key barriers identified are: (a) total project costs remain too high; (b) commercial banks continue to be
cautious about the sector's commercial viability; (c) limited active involvement of Micro Finance
Institutions (MFIs); (d) no purchase policy exists to cope with stranded assets if national grid is extended to
the village; and (e) only initial steps have been made toward promoting productive uses. (ii) Biomass:
Barriers to development of community biomass projects include (a) the lack of a biomass supply chain,
especially the lack of dedicated biomass energy plantations; (b) lack of access to investment and working
capital for biomass plantations (c) awareness among potential developers as well as potential beneficiaries
is low, and available infornation is limited.
Project strategy for intervention: This sub-component under the Project's Credit Program will be
implemented largely by Village Cooperative Societies with help from consultants, NGOs and contractors.
Building on ESD experience and other donor-funded activities, this component would support further
commercialization of village hydro and other community-based independent grid systems through: (i) Credit
Program investment support; (ii) co-financing grants; and (iii) technical assistance including project
preparation grants and supervision grants. It is expected that the GEF grant support will be scaled down
over the life of the Project and, after Project closure, lower levels of support would be part of a
comprehensive rual electrification policy, including a Rural Electrification subsidy mechanism or other
Central/provincial govemment creation. .
Investments. The Project builds on the successful ESD Credit Program which supports Participating
Credit Institutions (PCIs) in financing of sub-projects. The RERED Credit Program would continue to
make funds available to PCIs as well as to qualified Micro Finance Institutions (MFIs) for refinancing of
sub-projects. The project will provide refinance to the PCIs on the terms provided under ESD, including
refinance at an 80 percent level with compound maturities
Co-financing grant. Grant co-financing -- limited to US$ 400 per kW of installed capacity, up to US$
20,000 per installation - would be made available to developers of mini-grid village hydro. The AU will
release grant funds upon verification of eligibility and certification by a Chartered Engineer as indicated in
the Operational Guidelines (see Annex 12).
Technical Assistance. As in other components, cost-shared and full-cost TA for village hydro and
community based biomass projects will be offered to support accelerating commercialization through
better usage of income generation activities and with declining subsidies. Full cost activities, provided only
on an exceptional basis, should prove to have an added value for the village hydro industry and biomass
generation system as a whole.
*      The cost-shared window - ranging from 20 to 80 percent company contribution - will support
existing organizations if the activities contribute to reaching Project objectives. It will not include
support for hardware and will only be offered a maximum of two times during the implementation
of the project to a company. Activities that could be supported under this window are: (i) Village
Hydro - (a) technical training for VHDA members, including low-head turbine technology, and (b)
capacity building for establishment of VHDA office; (ii) Biomass -(a) feasibility studies and the
- 44 -



writing of project preparation documents, including on-the-job training for project development;
and (b) training for operalion and maintenance of the village power gasification system.
The full-cost window. Activities endorsed in regular meetings chaired by the AU and attended by
the key stakeholders in the sector could be supported in full. Activities that could be supported
under this window are: (i) Village Hydro- (a) support for VHD Association to facilitate exchange
of ideas and be a comnmona platform for collective action, (b) assistance to studies/pilots lo better
integrate income generation applications within project development, (c) consultant assistance to
help address policy/regulatory issues such as stranded assets, legal status of ECS, (d) encourage
further business developraent, (e) support for follow-up training programs with already identified
partner organizations; and (f) support for consultants/VHDA to work with local government bodies
such as PCS and DSs to e ncouraging provincial Councils to use their own funds for grant support
using a more formalized mechanism (e.g. a Rural Electrification Fund), allowing the GEF grant
fraction to be reduced.(ii) Biomass (a) organizing and developing the supply of fuel wood; and (b)
assessment of technology and appropriate technology transfer mechanisms for small-scale
gasification systems (dual fuel mode). The first batch of TA will be organized by means of bidding
out these activities through 'innovation solicitations' for the first 5 fuel supply projects combined
with five feasibility studies for these sites. Project preparation grants and supervision grants will
be available per the Operating Guidelines.
Technical Specifications and Certification. (i) Village Hydro: The technical specifications for village
hydro systems and the associated village mini-grid system developed under the ESD project will continue
to apply in so far as the village hydro projects are concerned. . The AU will release grant co-financing for
mini-grid schemes subject to certification by a Charted Engineer that the facility is complete, operational
and in compliance with IDA-approved specifications. (ii) Biomass: The technical specifications for village
biomass systems will be developed shortly after project effectiveness.Grant co-financing will be released
subject to the same conditions as apply to village hydro.
Monitoring and evaluation: The Administrative Unit (AU) will be responsible for monitoring the
following indicators: (i) Physical progress in the implementation of commuunitysystems; (ii) Growth in the
number of NGOs/Consultants involved in project development; and (iii) Policies/plans of provincial
governments with regard to promotion of community systems. Since the Project has a specific focus on
promoting income generation end-uses through community systems, the AU, apart from the required
techrnical monitoring, will also establish a system of measuring the income generation impacts of the village
mini-grid based projects.
Project Component 4 - US$1.00 nilillon
Energy Efflciency and Conservation
Basetine: In view of the limited availability of energy resources and rapidly growing demand, the
Government of Sri Lanka has recognized the need to promote efficient utilization and conservation of
electricity. It acted, for instance, during the 1990s to promote energy efficiency/DSM through the
preparation of a Demand Side Management (DSM) action plan, establishment of a DSM branch within the
CEB and the enactment of the Energy Conservation Fund act. The DSM branch initiated an audit program
and a lighting program soon after its establishment, but - despite technical assistance it received under the
ESD project - its capacity to design and implement projects remains limited.
Progress made during ESD: The ESD project helped build capacity within the DSM branch at CEB,
-45 -



notably one of the best load-research capabilities in the region, and CEB is better placed to implement and
evaluate existing DSM programs as well as design new ones. Support was also provided to develop
Energy Efficiency Building Codes, but their application has so far been limited to CEB's own buildings.
An unplanned outcome of the project was the help provided by consultants to set-up the first private sector
energy services company (ESCO), Lanka Transformers Limited (LTL). This company offers
comprehensive services for implementation of EE projects to the private sector -- about 20 projects so far --
and has had an annual tumover of about SLR 30 million during the last two years. Fifteen of the
completed projects are in the tea industry and other projects have been spread out in various types of
industries including garment and printing. The typical project, worth SLR 1-2 million, is attractive for
achieving 2-2.5 year simple paybacks. The total market size in the industrial sector alone is estimated to be
on the order of US$ 160 million, and savings in that sector could run up to 960 GWh annually.
Project Vision: This sub-component will focus on accelerating the private sector delivery of energy
efficiency services in Sri Lanka through: i) technical assistance targeted at building capacity within the
fledgling ESCO industry; ii) encouraging new ESCOs to enter the market through training and awareness
programs; and iii) building capacity within commercial banks to appraise energy efficiency projects. In
addition, the component will also fund technical assistance activities at the CEB DSM branch in support of
their ongoing appliance-labeling program, DSM program design and evaluation efforts and demonstration
projects for encouraging voluntary implementation of Energy Efficiency Building Codes (EEBC).
Barriers to overcome: Although early efforts hold promise of advancing energy efficiency goals,
significant impediments to progress include: (i) lack of capacity, specifically in monitoring and verification
protocol and legal agreements; (ii) lack of knowledge and capacity within commercial Banks on Energy
Efficiency technologies and project appraisal; (iii) insufficient awareness/promotional efforts and training
to bring new entrants into the ESCO market; (iv) low awareness of and attention to the Energy Efficiency
Building Codes (EEBC); and (v) non-implementation of the appliance-labeling program due to lack of test
facilities.
Project strategy for interventions
Investments. Support for ESCO Development: The project will support awareness and training programs
to encourage local groups to enter the ESCO field. One-on-one assistance will be provided for business
plan development, developing legal agreements and purchase of audit equipment.
Co-financing. No co-financing grant is offered under this component.
Technical Assistance
*      EEBC: Support will be provided to apply the codes to two buildings through an RFP process.
GEF support will be provided to meet the incremental costs of some of the energy efficient
equipment;
*      Industrial Benchmarldng: Support will be provided for the DSM branch to develop energy
efficiency benchmarking standards for such sectors as textiles, tea etc.;
*      Energy Labeling Program: Support will be provided to set up a refrigerator testing laboratory that
will help implement appliance labeling;
*      Monitoring and Verification protocol: Development of generic monitoring and verification
protocols and build local capacity to customize protocols to the needs of specific sectors and
-46 -



projects;
*      Capacity Building for Commercial Banks: Consultant assistance will be provided to commercial
banks to build their knowledge base on EE technologies and their costs, to develop sound appraisal
templates for EE projects and to structure options to mitigate credit risks; and
*      Access to Credit for ESCOs/end-users: In addition to renewable energy technologies, the Project's
credit program will also be open for ESCOs and end-users interested in implementing EE projects.
Monitoring and evaluation. Component progress will be monitored by the AU and included in the
quarterly progress reports.
Project Component 5 - US$4.60 mililon
Cross-sectoral Links
Baseline: Except for a few, small, donor-initiated demonstration efforts marked by weak follow-up, the
energy needs of rural public service agencies and institutions in such fields as health, education and water
go unattended. Since no explicit guidelines authorize consideration of energy equipment and services
beyond grid connection, CEB is almost universally seen as the only source for electricity supply. As a
result, the 40 percent of Sri Larikans without access to electricity service for themselves also lack it for
their public service facilities. B3ecause of large geographical disparities in coverage, very large gaps in
service, especially in the North and East, leave a vast need for rehabilitation and rebuilding. This activity
was not included in the ESD Project.
Commercial use of renewable energy systems has received some attention for selected applications in Sri
Lanka. In particular, remote telecommunications facilities currently use solar PV where appropriate. Also,
a small number of commercial establishments and some cottage industries use power from solar "home"
systems and village hydro for daytime energy and nighttime lighting (see Text Box 1). There also are
limited productive activities in connection with village hydros such as refrigeration, carpentry, battery
charging, etc.
Business Environment for the Project: Both suppliers and ministries have limited experience with
designing, procuring, installing, and maintaining electricity solutions beyond CEB service. With respect to
institutions already receiving CEB service, although energy costs can be a significant portion of the total
operating budget, energy conservation receives little attention. Also, the current energy situation results in
power outages putting greater reliance on backup systems which in many cases have been neglected for
years.
Similarly, despite limited supplier and customer experience with commercial/industrial systems, there is a
strong potential for expansion in this area given the entrepreneurial spirit in the rural population and the
evidence of development in grid-connected areas.
Project Vision and Targets: Project interventions seek to improve public services delivery through access
to energy services. In addition to ensuring that policy-level energy guidelines are in place and in use in at
least two ministries and that stamdard energy packages are developed and deployed, it aims at connecting at
least 500 rural institutions, most of them in the North and East, during the Project. In unelectrified rural
areas, lighting, refrigeration and telecommunications are to be made available for health service delivery,
and the majority of health facilities, down to the primary health facilities (remote health clinics) will have at
least reliable lighting and refrigeration. Similarly, education facilities will have adequate lighting and the
-47 -



necessary power for laboratories, computer and/or telecommunications facilities. Sufficient energy will be
available for pumping of community water systems, and energy conservation arrangements will be in place
in two-four large institutions.
Text Box 1
Rural Economic Development in the Energy Services Delivery Project
Solar Home Systems: Tale told by a user
I am Upali Bemchandra from Soraborawewa Mahiyangana in Uva Province. A year ago my little
daughter was highly excited describing me that her friend has got a Sun Panel and they have lights in
the night. Her question was why can't we too have such a wonderful lighting system? I was worried. I
don't have that kind of money. If I get a loan from the local moneylender, he will charge me very high
interest. Still, I thought I will at least find out the price of a lighting system from the Solar Company
office in the town. I was very lucky that day. A gentleman with some leaflets came to my kiosk to buy
oranges. I asked for a leaflet and whether I could have a Sun panel system. He visited my house a
week later and gave me details. He could arrange a loan from "SEEDS" if I pay Rupees 7,500 (US$
85) as the first payment and continue to pay Rupees 1,200 per month regularly and find two people to
guarantee my loan.
Every thing appeared to be going well - but my wife started grumbling: Rupees 33,000 (US$ 370). It
is a big sum for poor people like us. Our income will not be increased. We will develop the kiosk she
said so that we can improve sales if there are lights in the night instead of just a kerosene lamp.
During the windy season it was impossible to keep the lamp burning. It was with my wife's
persuasions that we decided to go and meet the "SEEDS" officers. I already knew that office at
Sarvodaya building, not very far from the bus stand.. Decision was postponed until a visit to my
house and to my kiosk. Every thing went O.K. and I was given permission to fix the Solar panel on
the roof of my kiosk in the bus stand. That was the turning point of my life. My well-illuminated
kiosk caught the eyes of all commuters, and my night income became higher than the day income. I
keep the place open until midnight. My income has gradually increased. I have saved enough money
to purchase a small truck, which I now use instead of my kiosk. Thanks to my daughter for making
me think about Sun power. Thanks to SEEDS for giving me a loan. Thanks to the Solar Company for
their good service. They even check whether I have any problems with the panel.
-4
_   J        R        ' 'I:r^-1            - .
-1_ ,,          .     1
(Mrs. Bemchandra with the family's business kiosk truck, with attached solar panel)
- 48 -



In general, policy level energy guidelines will be in place and well understood by stakeholders including
both energy supply and conservation. Energy conservation practices will be regularized in larger
institutions. Cross-sectoral ministries will understand the impact and benefit of access to energy.
Similarly, the project seeks to ensure that sufficient energy is available and used for productive purposes
even in off-grid areas. This includes income generating activities such as agricultural processing,
carpentry, light industry and services. A Monitoring and Evaluation scheme will be in place to assess the
impact of the intervention.
Further, for commercial institutions, the Project aims to establish a broad-based understanding of the
productive potential of off-grid systems and to mainstream their productive uses. For existing village hydro
schemes, the project will suppoit the adoption of more commercial practices such as carpentry,
agricultural processing, or refrigeration, that encourage productive uses and appropriate tariff
structures. It is expected that at least 500 commercial/industrial off-grid connections will be achieved
during the course of the project
Barriers to overcome: The Project must address a number of barriers including the following:
for public institutions:
*      A lack of established contracting mechanisms for institutional systems
*      limited knowledge in acoss-sectoral ministries of energy alternatives when CEB power is not
available
*      absence of guidelines and procedures for design, specification and use of energy equipment
*      sparse knowledge of energy conservation options and implementation mechanisms
*      limited availability of cross-sectoral funds for energy equipment
*      uncertain legal framework (sale of electricity disallowed)
and for commercial systems
*      lack of knowledge of possible productive applications
*      uncertain legal framework (sale of electricity disallowed)
*      poorly established miciofinance channels
*      limited generation capacity of village hydro systems
Project Strategy: To address these barriers, the project will work with stakeholder ministries to apply
energy solutions appropriate to their sectoral strategies and goals. In particular, for public institutions, the
Project will provide:
*      A Technical Assistance package which will include: (i) awareness creation regarding energy
alternatives (supply, conservation, and backup) within the ministries and provincial councils; (ii)
assessment of the impacts and benefits of access to energy; (iii) development of policy-level energy
guidelines; and (iv) spe cification of standard energy packages; and
*      Co-financing support far implementation of selected investments. This cofinancing will leverage
additional financing from ongoing and planned Government initiatives and donor-supported
projects.
The near-term focus will be on the North and East where the strong need for this support constitutes a
political imperative and development funds are available from both Government and donor sources. In the
longer term, the lessons from irnplementation in the North and East can be applied in other parts of the
- 49 -



country as appropriate. In parallel, the innovation solicitation approach will be applied to seek broader
participation and new ideas.
To address the barriers for commercial systems, the project will work with rural communities, businesses,
and service providers toward.the Project objectives. In particular, the Project will provide technical
assistance in the areas of:
*      awareness creation,
*      assistance for "electrifying" businesses
*      Support for existing off-grid users to make better use of available energy
*      Development of an incentive framework for incorporating productive uses in new subprojects
*      Clarification of the legal/policy framework
*      Incorporation specific focus on productive uses into village mini-grid users groups
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring and evaluation of these activities will be included in the overall M&E effort by the
Administrative Unit and directly linked, where possible, with M&E activities of the concerned ministries.
Table 2 summarizes the main issues and proposed actions under the Project in the key public service areas
(i.e. health, education, water). During project implementation, participation in other cross-sectoral areas
will be actively pursued.
Table 2 - Cross Sectoral Energy Situation and Project Actions
Sector     General Situation    Energy Situation        Barriers                   Actions under Project
Health     Curently working on  Fairly good coverage of  Lack of knowledge about   Awareness raising about
a master plan for the  energy for their facilities  possible and alternative  alternative energy supply
health sector where  from rural hospitals and  energy solutions         and possibilities other
there will be a     upwards.                                           than CEB
re-classification of                        Limited awareness of the
the facilities       The need would mainly  impact on service delivery  Define the impacts
including upgrading  be in primary health care  that access to energy gives  energy would have on
to a specific service  units (especially in North                      the health care service
level for some      and East)               No expertise within energy  and link it with the
facilities.                                 sector - and design &       upcoming master plan.
No guidelines exist on  implementation guidance is
The indicative      energy supply or back up  needed                    Develop appropriate
numbers for the new  requirements.                                      energy guidelines/energy
classification are as                       Provincial councils often   efficiency
follows             New classification would  only consider connecting to  measure/back-up
require all primary care  CEB                      systems for each level of
10 Provincial       units to provide                                   facilities.
General Hospitals   vaccination service and  Lack of funds is mentioned
10 District General  therefore energy will be  as a constraint.        Develop standard energy
Hospital            critical (around half or                            packages (including
30 Base Hospital    more do not have).                                  specifications)
300 Divisional
Hospital                                                                Energy conservation at
600 Primary Care                                                       larger hospitals from
unit                                                                    base hospital and
- 50 -



upwards.
Education  There is very good  Around 50% do not have  Lack of knowledge about   Awareness raising about
coverage of schools  access to energy.      possible and altemative   altemative energy supply
with around 10.000                          energy solutions          and possibilities other
(primary/secondary)s;  Energy access only                             than CEB
chools countrywide.  through CEB.           Limited awareness of the
impact on service delivery  Define the impact of
The main            Service like computers,  that access to energy gives  access to energy in
responsibility for  electrical laboratory   schools.                  schools and how it links
schools comes under  equipment and so on can                          up with the sector
the provincial      only be provided where  No expertise within energy  strategy.
councils. However,  energy already exist(thus  sector - and lack of design
300 are under the   in CEB areas).          and implementation        Develop appropriate
central Government.  This means an increase in  guidance is needed    energy guidelines/energy
the bias of rural/urban                           efficiency
schools.                Provincial councils often  measure/back-up
only consider connecting to  systems for different
No guidelines exist on  CEB                       school levels.
energy supply for
schools, rather the     Lack of funds is mentioned  Develop standard energy
planning is done        as a constraint.          packages (including
assuming there is access                          specifications).
to energy.
Drinking   The goal is access to  Energy for pumping is  Ministry has looked for  Awareness raising
Water      clean water for all ini  sorely needed in the  alternative energy solutions  about alternative energy
2010. Currently 55%  sector                 but lacked the experience  supply and possibilities
of the population                           and guidance.             other than CEB
have access to clean  CEB often is not where
water.              the water is needed and  Ministry has had initial  Develop appropriate
cost for extension too  discussions with private  energy guidelines for the
Future focus in the  high.                  sector energy suppliers (PV),  different water supply
sector will be on                           but lacked the internal   schemes.
private supply of   The Water board has a   knowledge to verify the
water with ownership  rule that energy expenses  solutions presented.  Integrate the energy
including payment o:f cannot exceed more than                         guidelines in the
operation and       40% of total cost, which  Lack of guidelines on    community water supply
maintenance by      extension of the grid   specific energy solutions for  schemes.
communities.        often doesn't do.       different water supply
scheme.
Both WB and ADB
will have community
water projects
coming up in the
next years.                  _                           _
Project Component 6 - US$5.10 millon
Technical assistance
-51 -



The packages of non-component-specific technical assistance described here will be procured by the AU
following the World Bank guidelines. The TA packages are divided into the following categories:
1.     Project administration/promotion
2.     Sub-project promotion/developmen't support
3.     Technology/market introduction/promotion/capacity building related to renewable energy and
energy efficiency capacity building
4.     Cross-Sectoral Energy Applications
5.     Sustainability
6.     Monitoring and Evaluation
Package 1- Project administration/promotion
Objective: Ensure the Project's smooth operation, emphasizing simplicity, efficiency, and speed consistent
with the need for fiduciary and safeguard compliance.
Description: The Project will be implemented largely through private sector actors with the support and
facilitation of the Administrative Unit (AU) housed in the DFCC Bank that has already demonstrated its
ability to implement the ESD Project efficiently and effectively. Building and expanding on this
experience, the AU will continue to administer the Project's Credit Program, itself quite similar to the ESD
Credit Program. The AU will also continue and expand its role in technical assistance by acting as a
facilitator of the activities described in this section. With particular regard to the Cross-sectoral Links, the
AU will retain a consultant to facilitate the process including: (i) liasing with the cross sectoral ministries,
donors, relevant sectoral Bank staff, and civil society; (ii) conducting consultant procurements in
collaboration with the cross sectoral ministries; (iii) assisting in implementation of cross-sectoral
investments; and (iv) conducting the innovation solicitations around rural development (see Text Box 2).
In addition, the AU will continue to undertake and support Project representation and promotion
domestically and internationally by convening local meetings, seminars, and workshops and presentations
at selected conferences, as well as by hosting international groups seeking to learn from Sri Lankan
renewable energy experience.
Text Box 2
Tapping Into an Innovaffve Community
Under the ESD Project, and Innovation Solicitation process was undertaken with the goal of eliciting new ideas
on how to motivate the sluggish village hydro project pipeline. The solicitation invited bids addressing one of
four general areas of concern in village hydro: technical issues, sustainable financing, legal and regulatory
aspects, and capacity building. About 15 proposals were submitted. Each of the 6 accepted proposals included
analytical work and, with the exception of the legal/regulatory category, included measurable outputs indicators
in the form of village hydro proposals developed at the community level and submitted for financing. As a
result, the village hydro pipeline jumped from about 12 pending applications to nearly 60. The analytical work
also is being incorporated into new village hydro systems, as well as into Project design. An additional bonus
was the entry of several new firms and NGOs as village hydro project promoters as well as an enhanced
awareness of village hydro potential in a broader community.
Implementation: The Ministry of Finance will enter into a contract with DFCC Bank to carry out the AU
services. The AU will undertake its work in accordance with a set of Operating Guidelines (see Annex 12)
heavily based on the ESD Guidelines.
- 52 -



Monitoring and Evaluation: The AU will continue to provide quarterly reports for the Project along the
ESD format, which emphasizes physical progress of the project. In addition, the reports will be enhanced
to include progress on rural development indicators. Monitoring and evaluation of AU performance will be
conducted by the Ministry of Finamce and the World Bank Task Team in the course of project supervision.
Package 2 - Subproject Promotion/Development
Objective: Promote and develop renewable energy-based village grids with increasing efficiency and
integration into overall national and provincial programs and plans.
Description: This activity will follow the successful experience of ESD village hydro sub-project
development, (see Section C, Text Box 3) expanding the scope to other commercially viable renewable
energy village grid systems such as biomass. In particular, the process will seek both to encourage rapid
development of additional village grid systems and at the same time, reduce the development cost through
the tender process described below. Reduction in GEF contributions to project development will be sought
through the increased participation of Provincial Councils and possibly through the Rural Electrification
subsidy mechanism to be established during the Project lifetime.
Implementation: Since private and NGO entities with village hydro development experience are now in
place, the process will seek to establish the "market clearing rate" for village grid project promotion
through a tender process. Initially, the AU will seek to ensure a competitive rate by carefully monitoring
perfornance and cost of project development consultants. If appropriate, thethe AU could issue a call for
proposals to develop a block of, for example, 10 village grid systems. The three lowest cost proposals will
be accepted, and these bids will be used to establish the fee rate available for other village grid promoters.
This approach will allow village grid promotion to continue with all current actors and any other interested
parties able to maintain access to the program. The AU could issue a new tender at any time it (letermines
that the current rate is no longer ualid.
Monitoring and Evaluation: The AU will monitor financial and physical progress of village grids as
under ESD. In addition, the AU will periodically evaluate village grid development costs and assess the
need for changes.
Package 3 - Technology/Markelt Introduction/Promotion/Capacity Building
Objective: Introduce and promote renewable energy technologies that are commercially establi.shed in
other countries but not yet commercial in Sri Lanka and integrate new stakeholders into the project.
Description: Technology introduction, promotion, and capacity building will be undertaken primarily in
the context of the relevant components. The major areas of emphasis will be: (i) grid connected wind,
where a modest amount of additional support is required to reach closure on the first private wind farm; (ii)
off-grid wind, including support for promotion of wind water pumping in wind-rich areas; (iii) grid and
off-grid biomass electricity development, including stand-alone and cogeneration plants and village-scale
gasification schemes; and (iv) introduction of solar applications beyond the current home systems,
including small-scale systems targeted at low income households and new applications in agriculture,
health, and education. In addition, the Project will support the introduction of alternative schemes such as
a barter-based system for poor households now being successfully piloted in Nepal. Through NGOs, poor
households could be taught handicraft skills. These households also could be given solar home systems,
and the handicraft products could be accepted by the NGO in payment. The NGO could sell the products
- 53 -



through national/international outlets.
See the relevant component descriptions for more details on technology introduction, promotion, and
capacity building activities.
The AU will facilitate the integration of new stakeholders, such as microfinance institutions, consumer
finance organizations, rural retail companies, and provincial councils on an as-needed basis. In particular,
the AU will seek to alleviate the current microfinance pinch by sponsoring an innovation solicitation aimed
at bringing new microfinance and consumer finance organizations into the program. These organizations
may or may not wish to access the Credit Program, but may still benefit from technical assistance under the
program. Off-grid systems that meet technical eligibility requirements will be eligible for the GEF grant
even if IDA Credit funds are not used.
Implementation: To the maximum extent possible, the activities will be refined and executed by relevant
Sri Lankan institutions such as the Energy Forum, Village Hydro Associations, Solar Industries
Association, etc. Administering this activity, the AU will conduct/facilitate the necessary tenders.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Each activity will include monitorable indicators for measuring its
contribution to the project objectives. In addition, progress in these activities will be included within the
overall monitoring and evaluation program.
Package 4 - Cross Sectoral Energy Applications
Objective: The objective of this activity is to identify and promote opportunities where provision of energy
services such as electricity, modem sources of thermal energy and energy conservation will have a
significant impact on rural economic development. This objective includes but is not limited to business
development, provision of institutional services (e.g health, education, etc.), and monitorable enhancement
in quality of life. A secondary objective is to raise awareness among the broadest possible cross section of
Sri Lankan society of the importance of energy in development, potential productive applications and the
need to use energy resources wisely
Activity Description: This TA area will utilize a highly successful approach for soliciting innovations
from the Sri Lankan community (see Text Box 2). In particular, the initial TOR specifies the broad areas
of emphasis, the need for monitorable indicators of project success, as well as the evaluation criteria This
TOR will be used for the first solicitation round and modified as appropriate for subsequent rounds.
Among the several rural development initiatives now active in Sri Lanka supported by Government, NGOs
and donors are Govemment activities at the national and provincial level, the Samurdhi Program, initiatives
by Sarvodaya, Sanasa, and other NGOs, and donor-sponsored activities . Proposals that feature
integration of the energy emphasis into these ongoing activities will be encouraged. Evaluation criteria will
include cost sharing.
As a separate activity, support will be provided to "cross sectoral" ministries - such as those responsible
for health, education, water, etc. - to: (i) create awareness regarding energy altematives within the
ministries and provincial councils; (ii) assess the impacts and benefits of access to energy; (iii) develop
policy-level energy guidelines; (iv) specify standard energy packages; and (v) implement selected
investments. Monitoring the impact of these investments will also be supported. Ministry of Health also
has requested energy audits for their larger hospitals, for which energy is a major cost.
- 54 -



Implementation Arrangements: For the "innovation solicitations" the AU will guide a series of the
solicitations using advertisements in local newspapers and announcements distributed to key industry
stakeholders and previous village hydro solicitation participants. For purposes of evaluation, the AU will
convene a three-person evaluatiorn comrnittee comprised of a member of the AU, a nominee from the
Energy Forum and a nominee from the Ministry of Energy. Each of the several rounds of solicitations will
build on the previous history, and each proposal will be evaluated on its own merit with respect to the
evaluation criteria. Multiple awards are expected within each round.
Cross sectoral support will be implemented by the relevant ministry, with procurement facilitation and
support from the AU as needed.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Each proposal under this activity will include its own monitorable
indicators. Since, however, it is necessary to ensure that the overall activity is demonstrably contributing to
Project objectives, monitoring and evaluation of this activity will be incorporated into the Project
Monitoring and Evaluation, described in Package 6 below.
Package 5 - Post-Project Sustainability
Objective: Develop and implemmnt plans for the sustainable continuation and expansion of the renewable
energy industry including sustainability of funding, regulatory support, capacity building, etc., and
ensuring that renewable energy continues to make a significant contribution to rural development.
Description: This activity is prirnarily aimed at setting in place a scenario to ensure continued
development of financially and economically viable renewable energy and a continued contribution to rural
development after the Project ends. Activity sub-components include:
Preparation of an Integrated Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan by the Ministry of Power and
Energy. This sub-task will includie consultant support as needed to develop a plan consistent with
international best practices as relevant for Sri Lanka and assistance as well for consultative fora to ensure
public participation in the process. This strategy and plan must be fully consistent with the sector reform
and privatization initiatives currently before the Govemment.
Design and Start-up of a Nationcrl Rural Electrification Subsidy Mechanism to act as the key nationwide
subsidy mechanism for supportin3J private provision of rural electrification per the new sector structure.
The fund will include transparent criteria and procedures and will be operated by a body such as the
Regulator that will have a high degree of independence while still being accountable to Parliament.
Assistance to Regulatory Body to assist with issues such as: (i) determining pricing for the small power
purchase tariff; (ii) regulations regarding the treatment of stranded assets created when the national
electricity grid reaches a village grid system; and (iii) third party power sales with wheeling of power
through the national transmission network. If a formal regulatory body is not in place when the need for
this assistance arises, the Ministry of Power and Energy will sponsor the work instead, taking appropriate
action on study recommendations.
Easing Long Term Liquidity for Commercial Banks and MFIs to ensure continuity in availability of
finance for small power producers. This task will explore options such as tapping pension funds and other
sources of long-term liquidity, the securitizing of a portfolio of small power loans, etc. Pilot activities will
be initiated as soon as practical with a view to establishing alternative long-term liquidity mechanisms well
before the Project closes.
- 55 -



Support for Implementation of the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) in Sri Lanka. As the CDM
focal point in the country, the Ministry of Environment will continue to take the lead in developing CDM
policies and projects. This activity will provide limited support to the Government for development of an
interim CDM policy and initial CDM transactions.
Implementation: To the maximrnum extent possible, implementation of these activities will be with relevant
agencies and stakeholders, facilitated by the AU.
Monitoring and Evaluation: Each proposal under this activity will include its own monitorable
indicators. Given the need to ensure that the overall activity is demonstrably contributing to Project
objectives, however, monitoring and evaluation of this activity will be incorporated into the Project
Monitoring and Evaluation, described in Package 6 below.
Package 6 - Monitoring and Evaluation/ Surveys
Objective: Monitor program and sector physical progress as well as contribution to Government rural
development goals.
Description: This activity will establish and implement a comprehensive monitoring program to track for
the Project in particular and the sector as a whole: (i) physical progress in all forms of rural electrification,
including grid extension, village grid, and solar; (ii) impact of rural electrification on rural economic
development including quality of life enhancement, rural employment and changes in income. Panel
surveys, focus groups and other relevant techniques will be used to establish rigorous monitoring protocols.
Annual evaluation of progress will be undertaken and provided as input for relevant reports by the Ministry
of Energy. Evaluations also will be used to guide revisions of the Project design if needed.
This activity also covers additional surveys or market analyses which may be needed throughout the Project
period to assess specific areas such as assessment of a biomass gasification market, village grid productive
use assessment, etc.
Implementation: This activity will be implemented through a competitively tendered contract issued by
the AU.
- 56 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Table 1. Estimated Project Costs (including contingencies)
In US$ million
Components                     Local       Foreign      Total
Grid Connected Invesliments                    34.5         55.8        90.3
SolarPVInvestments                             10.2         18.1        28.3
Community Investments (hydro, biomass)          1.6          2.8         4.4
Energy Efficiency and DSM                       0.4          0.6         1.0
Cross Sectoral Energy Applications              2.7          1.9         4.6
Technical Assistance                            2.0          3.1         5.1
Total Project Cost                          51.4         82.3       13:3.7
Sti IanhRERED)
MDA   G     Ka   PCIae Calm Goit     Tdal
C    oV=6                                F*uly lvaTF1  Fh
Mnih>dm                                285    -    7.1   112    0.8     -  47.6
BinE                                    10.8  -    27     2.6   19      -  18.0
Uind                                    9.9   -    25     8.8   35      -  24.7
Sub4gb                                 492    -    123   22.6   6       -  903
HEdS-m1n   lrHfim                       18.8  39   42    1.4     -      -  283
Sub4                                    1818  39   42     1A     -      -  283
VlWl) bdD3.0                                  -    05    0.1     -      -   3.6
villior*m                               0.6   -    0.1   0.1     -      -   0.8
SuMM                                    3.6   -    0.6    02     -      -   4A
EmEfiDyaDSM
Echo 1nhnmit                            0.6   -    0.     03      -     -   1.0
Sub4dW                                  0.6   -    0.1    03      -     -   LO
lbti&&MaVCadm,OCwf                      712.3  0.8  05    1.0     -     -   4.6
Sub9tia                                 23   OS    (5     1.0    -      -   46
TechWeAsb
EByEffiBiy                              02   05     -      -      -    02   09
P1jedA&*iisatiE'pxs                      -   02     -      -     -      -   02
PojetA_mmtbARmxbmiviits mdCDM           -   0.1    -      -     -      -   0.1
Subp    rja1pt  t (aa1kw   inun)         -   0.4    -     02     -      -   0.6
Ted&ynflx              ik1E              -   1.1    -     0.1    -     02   1.4
&Mk&  h(WOMSirgaww)                      -   0.1    -      -            -   0.1
(h3WA        fTA                        0.1  04    02      -     -     02   09
M   tdnieMM   migandEvWLm&              02  05      -      -     -     02   09
Nd4ui                                    0.533      0L2   0.3     -     S   5.1
TowIaniec*                             75.0  8o   179    255    62     oS 137
- 57 -



Table 3. Total Project Financing Plan by Source of Funds
(in US$ million)
Investments    TA       Total     % of
(MUSS)      (MUSS)    (MUSs)    Total
Private                      25.5      0.3      25.8       19
PCI                          17.7      0.2      17.9       13
IDA                          74.5      0.5      75.0       56
GEF                           4.7      3.3       8.0        6
Carbon Trade Fin.             6.2      -         6.2        5
Government                    -         0.8      0.8         1
Total                       128.6       5.1    133.7     100.0
Note: Govermment financing covers participation in selected TA activities and counterpart financing of
costs including taxes. This is consistent with the prevalent Standard Disbursement Percentages for
Bank-financed projects in Sri Lanka.
- 58-



Annex 4: Economic and Financial Analysis
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
General Approach
This annex summarizes the economic and financial analysis of the subprojects such as: (i) mini-hydro
projects; (ii) solar home systems; and (iii) community-based village hydro projects, proposed to be financed
under this project.
Mini Hydro Project
The economic analysis for a typical mini hydro project indicates economically robust results and net
economic benefits both to the project developers and to the country. The analysis is based on the following
assumptions derived from actual data of sub-projects financed under the Energy Services Delivery Project:
*   A mini hydro plant of 1,500 kW capacity is considered with 46 percent plant factor. Annual
generation of the plant is around 6 GWh.
* Project cost is assumed to be US$ 800 per kW. Thus, the total project cost is around US$ 1.2 million
with US$ 150,000 as tax;
*   Operation and maintenance cost is assumed to be 5 percent of the capital cost per annum;
*   The Standard Conversion F'actor for Sri Lanka is taken as 0.90. This factor was used to adjust the
Operation and maintenance cost of local goods, works, and services to derive economic values;
*   Tariff charged by mini hydro developers to CEB is assumed to be USO 5.2 per kWh. This tariff is
based on marginal energy production cost of CEB and thus is considered as the tariff for both
economic and financial anallysis;
*   Exchange rate is assumed b) be 92 SLR per US$.
Under these assumptions the economic analysis shows EIRR of around 24 percent and the financial
analysis shows a FIRR of arourd 21 percent.
Valuation of Costs
All costs are expressed in terms of constant 2001 SLR. The foreign costs were converted to SLR cost at
border price level. The local cots are obtained at market level and then converted to economic cost based
on a Standard Conversion Factor (SCF) of 0.90. This is used to convert the local cost of the project to get
the economic input cost For the economic analysis tax portion is excluded from the project cost to
calculate the border price of the project. For financial analysis total project cost is considered.
Valuation of Benefits
To promote the mini hydro projects, CEB has agreed to set tariff for the mini hydro energy generation at
the avoided cost of power generation. Thus the tariff of USO 5.2 per kWh can be used as the economic
and financial tariff for the mini hydro power plants and is assumed to be at the same level over the life of
the project. Mini-hydro develope,rs are assured of receiving at a minimum 90 percent of the tariff paid
during the first commissioned year of the project. Hence, even if the avoided cost of power generation
reduces sharply, the developer is protected from the downside. Since the retail tariffs are higher than this
level (nearly USO 8.0 per kWh), using the retail tariff as a proxy for the economic benefit to consumers will
result in much higher EIRR
- 59 -



Results
These projects have very short construction period, usually around 10 to 15 months. For the analysis the
construction period is assumed to be around a year. From the second year the project starts to earn revenue.
Under the assumption of constant price and no escalation of variable cost and benefits over the years the
project generates a positive return of constant $ over its life, which is of 20 years.
In the economic analysis of the project, the economic costs of the input are netted out from the economic
benefits to calculate the net benefit of the project. The EIRR of the project is about 24 percent. The
economic analysis of the project is shown below:
Table 1: Economic Analysis of a Mini Hydro Project
(Figures are in US$)
Fiscal Year  Investment Cost  O&M Cost Total Cost Revenue     Net Flow
Excluding Tax
2002       (1,050,000)               (1,050,000)           (1,050,000)
2003                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2004                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2005                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2006                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2007                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2008                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2009                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2010                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2011                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2012                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2013                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2014                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2015                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2016                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2017                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2018                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2019                       (54,000)    (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2020                       (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309     260,309
2021                        (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309    260,309
2022                   .    (54,000)   (54,000)  314,309    260,309
EIRR of the Project                 24%
In the financial analysis of the project, the financial costs of the input are netted out from the revenue of the
project to calculate the net cash flow of the project. The FIRR of the project is about 21 percent. The
financial analysis of the project is shown below:
- 60 -



Table 2: Financial Analysis of a Mini Hydro Project
(Figures are in US$)
Fiscal Year  Total Investment  Operating  Total Cost  Revenue    Net Flow
Cost           Cost
2002        (1,200,000)                (1,200,000)           (1,200,000)
2003                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2004                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2005                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2006                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2007                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2008                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2009                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2010                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2011                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2012                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2013                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2014                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2015                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2016                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2017                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2018                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2019                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2020                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
2021                        (60,000)     (60,000)  314,309     254,309
2022                        (60,000)    (60,000)   314,309     254,309
FIRR of the Project                   21%
Conclusion
The economic and financial ass-ssment of the project indicates that the project will deliver net economic
benefits for the country and would deliver financial benefits to the implementing agency. These projects
also enable Sri Lanka to tap renewable hydro resources of the country mitigating to some extent need for
imported fuel to meet energy needs. Furthermore, they create economic benefits like job creation and use of
local construction materials in remote areas of the country, where such projects are usually located.
Solar Home System
The cost of off-grid solar home systems compares favorably with the cost of grid expansion for remote
areas. The solar component under this project would provide electricity to nearly 87,000 households at a
total investment cost of about US$ 28.0 million, i.e. US$ 330 per household. The marginal cost of
providing peak energy to the rwul consumer is about US$ 500 per kW and the cost of extending the grid to
the marginal rural consumer in Sri Lanka is about US$ 300 per consumer. It needs to be pointed out that
the grid electricity provides a dihferent and higher level of service to the consumer and has a much higher
impact on economic development and social well-being than the electricity made available from solar home
systems. The solar home systenms supports a very basic level of service, mainly lighting. However, a large
majority of rural households are low-intensity consumers, using less than 40 kWh (or units) per month,
mainly for lighting purposes. This level of service is consistent with that available from solar home
systems, when used in conjunction with compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs).
- 61 -



The approach for economic evaluation for the solar program considers the replacement of kerosene lamps
by solar lighting. This approach is also used in evaluating the incremental cost for solar home systems,
which is found to be about US$ 2.3 per Wp. The incremental cost calculation represents a financial
valuation of the cost of elimninating barriers and mnaking the solar system affordable. On this basis the IRR
would be 12 percent since the incremental cost calculations use this discount rate for computing the
levelized costs and benefits over a 15-year solar home system lifecycle. In this case there is little difference
between a financial and economic computation. It can be safely assumed that the economic rate of return
would be higher than 12 percent since the economic benefits are likely to be much higher than the mere
replacement cost of kerosene. For examnple, the itidirect benefits of replacing kerosene with solar lighting -
better quality of lighting, higher safety and freedom from indoor pollution, are not captured in the financial
benefit valuation. Given these factors and uncertainty about the valuation of actual benefits, a separate
EIRR calculation for solar has not been presented here.
Assumptions
The financial analysis of this component considers the financial position of a household who adopts the
scheme. The assumptions are derived from actual data with SHS in Sri Lanlka under the Energy services
Delivery Project.
* The scheme would be administered by the Administration Unit of the project through providing
refinancing to PCIs to extend micro finance to households to buy SHS;
*   A solar home system of 40 Wp is considered for the analysis. The total cost of the system is assumed
to be US$ 452 with a life of 15 years;
*   Battery life is considered to be 3 years;
*   At the end of third year, household would replace the battery at their own cost;
* Controller life is considered to be of 7 years and would be replaced at owner's cost;
* Bulbs and other accessories usually have a short life and would be replaced at owner's cost;
*   The incremental cost analysis shows that the incremental cost per Wp is equivalent to US$ 2.3.
However, to make the program sustainable without the grant at the end of this project it is decided to
reduce the grant amount from the SHS over the years. For a system of 40 Wp though the grant should
be around US$ 92, it is kept US$ 70 and also would be phased out after the third year of the project;
*   The PCI would extend a loan to the households maximum of 75 percent of the total cost of the system
to purchase SHS;
*   IDA refinances 80 percent of the loan amount made by PCIs;
*   The balance amount comes as the equity financing of the Households collected as a down-payment
before installing the system; and
*   The loan terms are flexible in terms of repayment period. Usually the PCIs charge 24 percent reducing
balance interest rate and the loan is to be repaid within four years. For this analysis a three-year
repayment period is considered.
Results
The cash inflows to the HH are the US$ saved from not using kerosene lamps and not incurring cost for
charging batteries. instalment Based on the above assumptions the chart for the cash flow of a household
purchasing a SHS is provided below.
The initial cash outflow shown in the chart is due to the down-payment and DSL payments to the PCIs by
the households. After they have repaid the loan they start deriving the benefits of the system. In every year
- 62 -



the households would incur an operating and maintenance cost of replacing bulbs, battery fluids, electrician
fees, etc. In every third and sevenith year, the households would have to replace the battery and the
controller respectively, which is considered as additional capital cost required by the households. This is
reflected in the chart as the periodic decrease in household cash inflows. Based on the above assumptions
the FIRR of the project is about N%. The financial analysis of the project at the household level is shown
below:
Chart 1: Net Cash Flow of a Household
50-
X      1111 
(50)
(100)       S~
(150)
N    Xn     LO   co X -   co X   aa o  -   N    n        z  (
04  N4  N4   N   N    N   N   N4  N4  N4   el  N    N   N   N    N4
- 63 t L  L L >  L  L  >  >  >   L   >
-63 -



Table 3: Financial Analysis of a SHS at Household level
(Figures are in US$)
Fiscal Year Investment Controller Battery  Bulbs  Total  Savings  Net
Cost                                 Cost            Flow
2002      (43)                                 (43)            (43)
2003      (160)                                (160)     72    (88)
2004      (160)                         (6)    (165)     72    (94)
2005      (160)                (49)     (6)    (214)     72    (142)
2006                                   (6)      (6)      72     66
2007                                   (6)      (6)      72     66
2008                          (49)      (6)    (55)      72     17
2009                 (32)              (6)     (37)      72     34
2010                                   (6)      (6)      72     66
2011                           (49)     (6)    (55)      72     17
2012                                   (6)      (6)      72     66
2013                                   (6)      (6)      72     66
2014                           (49)     (6)     (55)     72     17
2015                                   (6)      (6)      72     66
2016                 (32)              (6)      (37)     72     34
2017                           (49)     (6)     (55)     72     17
Note: investment cost net of co-financing grant
FIRR of the Project is            7%
Vimage Hydro Projects
The analysis of the village hydro project is based on the following assumptions:
*   A village hydro plant of 11 kW capacity is considered. The experience of the Energy Services Delivery
Project supports considering a project of this capacity. This size of a plant requires manageable
project cost and meets the demand of a village with around 50 to 60 households;
*   Total Project cost is assumed to be US$ 1,300 to US$ 1,400 per kW. The project cost of a 11 kW
village hydro plant excluding the project design cost is found to be around US$ 14,700 and with US$
7,000 as the project design cost the total project cost stands at around US$ 21,700;
*   The incremental cost analysis indicates grant requirement of US$ 7,000 for financing the project
development cost and US$ 400 per kW support for barrier removal. Thus the barrier removal grant
from GEF is considered to be US$ 4,400 for this project;
*   PCIs extends a loan of around 50 percent of the capital cost of the project to the village community.
These loans are usually with a tenor of five years, with the interest rate having a spread of 5-6 percent
over the AWDR. Seventy-five percent of this loan is refinanced to the PCIs by the IDA funds;
*   The balance amount required for the project after getting the loan and GEF grant financing is met by
equity contribution from the villagers;
*   These plants incur O&M cost of around 8 percent of the fixed cost per annum;
*   The community charges around SLR 400 to SLR 600 per household per month as tariff for using the
electricity service;
*   The project is assumed to have a 20-year life.
-64 -



Results
The cash outflows for the village community in connection to this project are the equity contribution, DSL
payment and O&M costs. The inflow is the revenue collected from the community members. The net cash
flow is calculated by netting the outflows from the project inflows.
The financial analysis of the project shows that the net present value of the project to the village community
is US$ 488 and the project has a FIRR of about 10 percent. Thus the project has a positive impact to the
village community. The financial analysis of the project at the village community level is shown below:
Table 4:: Financial Analysis of a Village Hydro Project
(Figures are in US$)
Fiscal Year Investment Operating Total Cost Revenue  Net
cost     Cost                        Flow
2002      (3,000)             (3,000)           (3,000)
2003      (2,362)   (1,220)   (3,582)   2,609   (974)
2004      (2,362)   (1,220)   (3,582)   2,609   (974)
2005      (2,362)   (1,220)   (3,582)   2,609   (974)
2006      (2,362)   (1,220)   (3,582)   2,609   (974)
2007      (2,362)   (1,220)   (3,582)   2,609   (974)
2008                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2009                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609   1,389
2010                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2011                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2012                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2013                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2014                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2015                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2016                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2017                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2018                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2019                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2020                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2021                (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
2022    .           (1,220)   (1,220)   2,609    1,389
Note: Investment cost net of co-financing grant
FIRR of the Prcject is          10%
- 65 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
This Annex presents the financial highlights of potential PCIs which are likely to meet the eligibility
criteria. These PCIs are participants under the ESD project and have expressed an interest in continuing
their participation in this Project. Additional PCIs which meet the eligibility criteria will also be invited to
join the Credit Program
Financial Highlights of Potential PCIs per Section 253(ii) of the Energy Services Delivery Project
Participation Agreement
Actual for FY ending 31 Dcember 2000
Subsection              Details              Minimum     NDB     DFCC (i)    HNB      Sampath    Commercial
A       Cash collection ratio - principal and  80.0  84.08     86.2       (vi)       84         96.71
interest (%)                              _              _
B       Cash collection ratio - principal only  80.0  88.38    82.4       (vi)       84         97.70
C       After tax profit on average         9.0      9.19      11.43     15.16       17.6      18.5 (v)
shareholder's funds (%)                     _
D       Debt service cover ratio (times)    1.25      3.14     2.34       00         (ii)         (i
E       Portfolio infection rate (max. %)   20.0     12.03     11.77      6.19       13.1      9.36 (v)
F       Debt equity ratio (max.)            8:1      5.24:1    3:1       2.51:1      2:1       0.15:1 (v)
G       Capital adequacy ratio: Tier 1 (%)  4.0      14.61   25.1 (vii)   9.6        9.6       14.97 (v)
Tier 2 (%)      8.0      13.02  25.3  (iv)    10.8      12.1      16.62 (iv)
_______________________________          ~~~~~(vii)  _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _      (v)
H       Single party/ group exposure        10.0      3.5      1.55       2.0        Nil        <= 10.0
(max. % of total assets)                   I
I       Single sector exposure (max. % of   30.0     15.6      14.9      55.17       Nil      <= 30.0 (v)
total loan portfolio)                    (        i    ii)
Notes
(i)   DFCC Bank FY ends 31 March 2001
(ii)  Not requiredfor commercial banks
(iii)  HNB's largest sectoral exposure is to commercial sector as defined by Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL).
The commercial sector includes sub sectors such as exports, imports, trading, construction, housing etc.
(iv)  Tier 1 and 7Ter 2
(v)   Not certified by auditors
(vi)  At present HNB is geared to extract data required by CBSL only and therefore the collection ratios are not
extracted However HNB is in the process of acquiring a sophisticated IT package which will facilitate
flexible reporting in the future.
(vii) From annual report
- 66 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Procurement
A.     Procurement Implementation Capacity
The Project is designed to on-lend funds through intermediaries (MFIsl PCIs) to developers, promoters,
households and rural enterprises to support renewable energy sub-projects and energy efficiency
investments. There is provision for technical assistance for development and implementation of grid
connected and off-grid renewable energy systems. Technical assistance is being funded both by an IDA
credit and a GEF grant. Grid conmected investments include mini-hydro, wind, and biomass projects.
Off-grid investments include solar home systems as well as small independent grid networks powered by
micro-hydro, biomass, and possibly wind generation systems. The fund flows vary somewhat between the
grid-connected and the off-grid investments.
The Project is a follow-on project to the ongoing Energy Services Delivery (ESD) Project. The Project's
Credit Program is based heavily on the ESD Credit Program. The ESD Project is being implemented
satisfactorily without any major issues or complaints, and therefore similar arrangements will continue
under the Project. The DFCC BEnk is the implementing agency for the Project through the Administrative
Unit [AU]. The AU staff has gained sufficient experience in IDA project procurement during the
implementation of the ESD project and is well placed to monitor and guide stakeholders accordingly. The
procurement arrangements for the Credit Program have worked well and will be continued in the Project.
Established conmmercial practices would essentially form the main mode of procurement under the Project.
Procurement oversight arrangernents for the Project are as under:
*   The PCIs will be required to maintain details of the procurement methods used by sub-borrowers and
to monitor the utilization of subloan funds for procurement through regular site supervision visits.
Administrative Unit staff and IDA field supervision missions will continue to review implementation of
these procedures; and
*   To strengthen the fiduciary review process, the following additional safeguards will be followed in the
implementation of the Project:
(a)  PCIs will be required ic obtain from sub-borrowers, certificates that agreed procurement
procedures have been .followed for all cases where commercial practices have been adopted. An
agreed format for this certification is included in the PIP;
(b) An external consultant will be hired by the AU to carry out ex-post reviews and asset verification
for 100 percent of grid-connected projects and 50 percent of off-grid projects except for Solar
Home Systems (SHS). In case of Solar Home Systems, random checks will be carried out on a
regular basis for a limited number of systems; and
(c)  The Bank will conducl. sample ex-post audits on the consultant's review referred to above.
Procurement methods (Table A)
B.    Methods of Procurement
Procurement of Goods and works financed by IDA credit proceeds and GEF grant proceeds will follow the
- 67 -



Guidelines for "Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" issued in January 1995, revised January
and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Selection of consultants will follow the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" issued in January 1997, revised September 1997
and January 1999. In general, the QCBS process will be used for consultant contracts for firms above US$
100,000 as shown in Table B below. Consultant contracts for firms under US$ 100,000 would be procured
using the Consultant Qualification method. For individual consultants requirements set for in paragraphs
5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers shall
be followed. The following thresholds will be used to determine the applicable procurement method.
Credit Line Component:
*   ICB for goods contracts in excess of US$ 2.0 million.
*   ICB for works contracts in excess of US$ 3.0 million.
* ICB for turnkey contracts in excess of US$ 5.0 million.
*   Established commercial practices will be utilized for all non-ICB contacts. Three quotes will be
required to ensure competitive prices. An opinion from an independent expert acceptable to IDA on the
reasonableness of quoted prices will be required for all contracts where three quotes are not received.
Technical Assistance Component:
Goods
*   ICB for goods contracts in excess of US$ 200,000.
* NCB for goods contracts between US$ 25,000 and US$ 200,000.
*   Local/international shopping with a minimum of three quotations for goods and works contracts below
US$ 25,000.
Services
*   Quality and Cost Based Selection method (QCBS) shall be used for consulting service contracts for
firms above US$ 100,000
*   Selection based on Consultant Qualifications may be used for consulting contracts for firms below US$
100,000
* For individual consultants requirements set for in paragraphs 5.1 to 5.3 of the Guidelines for Selection
and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers shall be followed.
Prior review:
*      All subloan ICB contracts; and
*      The letter of invitation to bid, terms of reference and short list for all consultant services contracts
above US$50,000 under the Technical Assistance component.
The break-up of technical assistance subcomponents by method of procurement is summarized in the
following table:
- 68 -



Technical Assistance: Procurement Methods
Technical assistance area     Estimated costs       Procurement Method
Energy Efficiencv: Training, About 10 cons. contracts  QCBS, CQ
and capacity building    ranging in value from US$
activities, pre-feasibility  20,000 to US$ 200,000. Total
studies, market assessments  costs = US$ 0.9 mill
Cross-sectoral: project  About 20 contracts ranging in QCBS, CQ
development, capacity    value from US$ 20,000 to
building/training        US$ 100,000.
Total costs = US$ 0.9 mill
Village Hydro/Biomass:   About 10 contracts ranging in QCBS, CQ, other
project development,     value from US$ 20,000 to
capacity building of     US$ 100,000.
developers               Total costs = US$ 0.6 mill
Technology Promotion:    About 7 contracts ranging in  QCBS, CQ
Media based awareness    value from US$ 50,000 to
campaigns, training and  US$ 200,000.
demonstrations.          Total costs = US$ 1.7 mill
Sustainabilitv: Evaluative  About 6 contracts ranging in  QCBS, CQ
.studies on market       value from US$ 100,000 to
development and utilization  US$ 200,000.
of subsidies, creation of RE  Total costs = US$ 0.1 mill
subsidy mechanism.
Monitoring and Evalaution:  About 10 contracts ranging in QCBS, CQ
Market surveys, customer  value from US$ 20,000 to
Satisfaction surveys, audits  US$ 100,000.
etc                      Total costs = US$ 0.9 mill
- 69 -



Table 1. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          ICB      NCB       Other      Total
1. Credit Program                                         127.6      127.6
(74.5)     (74.5)
2. Technical Assistance
(a) Consultant Services and Training                     5.1       5.1
(0.5)      (0.5)
(b) Goods                                      0.7       0.3        1.0
(O)       (O)        (O)
Total                                            0.7      133.0      133.7
(0)      (75.0)     (75.0)
* Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit only.
** Of the total IDA US$75.0 million, US$2.5 million is being passed through by Govemment as co-financing
grants and will be following the same criteria as GEF grant.
Note:  ICB = Intemational Competitive Bidding
Other = Includes Established Commnercial Practices
Consultant Procurement
Technical assistance will be provided for consultant services in capacity building, and targeted studies, and
also for training, awareness, and outreach activities as described in Annex 2. Estimated expenditures for
consultants by selection arrangements are given below in Table Al.
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
,onsultant $e~vkes       -       SFB   Selection Method
Expe-nditre Ctegory   QC~BS  .Ql;BS     f     -> F LCS.;,  -CQ;  Other   N.B.F.  Total Cost'-
A. Firms                1.70    0.00    0.00     0.00     1.40    0.50     0.00     3.60
(0.30)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0. 1 0)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.40)
B. Individuals         0.00     0.00    0.00     0.00     0.20    1.30     0.00     1.50
(0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.03)   (0.07)  (0.00)    (0. 1 0)
Total   1.70    0.00     0.00    0.00     1.60    1.80     0.00     5.10
, (0.30)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.13)   (0.07)  (0.00)    (0.50)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit/Grant.
- 70 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure      Contrsact Value Threshold  Procurement Method     Contracts Subject to
Category                (US$)                                        Prior Review
1. Sub Projects  Goods in excess of US$   (i) ICB                 (i) All ICB contracts
2,000,000
Works in excess of US$   (ii) Below these thresholds, (ii) Certification by Sub
3,000,000                standard commercial     borrowers countersigned
Turnkey in excess of US$  practices apply        by PCIs
5,000,000
2. Consultant
Services/Training
(a) Consulting                            (a) Quality and Cost Based  (a) Contracts of value more
Finns                                     Selection or Consultant  than US$ 50,000 - full
Qualifications          prior review
(b) Individuals                           (b) Selection of Individual  (b) Contracts of value more
Consultants based on Section than US$ 50,000
V of the Guidelines
3. Goods          (i) Goods in excess of US$  (i) ICB              (i) First two contracts
200,000                                          every year regardless of
value and all contracts of
value more than US$
100,000
(ii) Goods between US$   (ii) NCB
25,000 -IJS$ 200,000
_(iii) GoodIs below $25,000  (iii) Shopping
- 71 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Financial Manaeement
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
The implementing entity, DFCC Bank, has a proven track record of good financial management and sound
project operating guidelines under the ongoing Energy Services Deliveiy Project. It has been operating a
satisfactory financial management system and has demonstrated capacity in submitting project audit
reports and informative quarterly project management reports to the Bank on a timely basis.
The Project is being implemented at a substantially enhanced scale compared to the ESD. To manage the
increased scope and scale of operations efficiently, the DFCC Bank has agreed to the following risk
mitigation measures: (i) expanding the scope of project audit to cover independent physical verification of
assets and procurement/accounting practices of the beneficiaries; (ii) engaging the services of a consultant
for verifying satisfactory installation of the Solar PV systems (the most dispersed and tramnsaction intensive
project component); and (iii) computerizing the project accounting system at the DFCC Bank.
The Project will follow report based disbursements from inception and will produce an agreed set of
Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on a quarterly basis. Two special US Dollar accounts will be
opened, one for IDA credit and the other for GEF grant funds.
Country Issues
As the AU will function within the operating framework of the DFCC, many country issues are not
applicable for this project. One exception could be inadequate budget provision for credit and grant funds
and slow release of counterpart funds for the two technical assistance components. This issue was
discussed with the Govermnent during Project negotiations, and the latter has agreed to make adequate
budgetary provisions and ensure timely release of counterpart funds for the Project. Agreements in this
regard have been incorporated in the Project documents.
Strengths and Weaknesses
The project has the following strengths:
*   Satisfactory implementation of the ESD project, paving the way
for a comprehensive, simple and clear set of operating guidelines
that are well understood by all stakeholders concemed,
particularly, PCIs and MFIs;
*   Established systems, procedures, and practices for implementing
the project;
*   Efficient and competent staff at the AU in the DFCC; and
*   Timely submission of disbursement claims and audit reports to the
World Bank
- 72 -



The project has the following weaknesses:
Signiflcant weaknesses                  Resolution
1. PCI/MFI compliance with the eligibility  TORs for the project auditor have been agreed.
criteria were not confirmed in project audit
under the ongoing ESD project.
2. Procureement and record keeping practices, and Separate audits will be undertaken; included in
physical existence of assets of project sponsors  above TORs.
and VES were not independently verified in
project audit, though monitored by the PCIs.
3. Given the significantly enhanced size of the  AU will computerize the financial management
project, the AU's capacity in teims of staffing  system by March 2003.
and computerized facilities might be inadequate.
4. Project auditors and consultants for verifying  AU shall appoint auditors and consultants by
implementation.of the Solar PV installation yet to November 2002.
be identified.
5. AU to get accustomed to preparing Financial  The existing formats for the progress reports
Monitoring Reports (FMRs) and forecasting  provides a good basis for preparing FMR
project cash flow requirements on a quarterly  reports. AU has a competent team of
basis.                                   professionals who will be able to easily adopt
FMRs.
Inplementing Entity
Project administration will be carried out by the AU, which also has a significantly enlarged role compared
to the ongoing ESD project because of the increased scope of the proposed project. Actual implementation
will be carried out by the PCIs/MFIs and project beneficiaries.
The financial management assessment did not cover the PCIs/MFIs, since there are other existing
arrangements in place for their evaluation. Under ESD, the Bank's South Asia Financial and Private Sector
Development Unit carries out annual assessments of their compliance with eligibility criteria, and in the
new Project, this annual review will be undertaken by the Government in consultation with the Bank.
Furthermore, the Banking Super-vision Departnent of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka closely reviews the
financial soundness of the PCIs.
Funds Flow
The National budget of the GOS'L will include a budget for the Project. Counterpart funds for technical
assistance are to be provided by the project beneficiaries, PCIs or MFIs as the case may be or by GOSL.
Two special dollar accounts (SDAs) will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to deposit the
proceeds of IDA credit and GEF grant. AU will have the right to operate the SDAs and withdraw funds for
reimbursement to the PCIs and MFIs. PCIs will be responsible for approving the loans to ultimate project
beneficiaries following their owci loan screening procedure. Once the loan has been approved, PCIs will
forward a Loan Refinance Application form to the AU requesting commitment for a maximum of 80
percent of the approved loan armount. As and when the PCI disburses funds against the approved loan
amount, a disbursement request form will be forwarded by the PCI (with appropriate supporting
documents) to the AU for obtaining a maximum of 80 percent of the amount disbursed to the beneficiary.
- 73 -



Specific funds flow arrangements for each component and further details on the required supporting
documentation for reimbursements are given in the Operations Manual and Operating Guidelines (see
Annex 12). Also refer the funds flow diagram in Annex I to the FM assessment report.
Staffing
Financial management for the project will be overseen by the Project Accountant in the AU. He will be
responsible for verifying the eligibility of the reimbursement claims forwarded by the PCIs, MFIs and solar
dealers, maintaining supporting documents, recording project financial transactions, and preparing financial
monitoring reports to the World Bank for withdrawal purposes. An additional project officer is being
appointed to strengthen AUs capacity.
Accounting Policies and Procedures
For the ongoing ESD project, the AU has a self-contained accounting system using Microsoft Excel
spreadsheet. It is a double-entry accounting system on an accrual basis. AU's current practice of recording
and accounting for project expenditure is sufficiently detailed and adequate for the purpose of generating
reports by various types of expenditure classification, as specified in the Administration Agreement.
However, for the Project, the accounting system should be computerized given the high volume of financial
transactions. Accounting policies and procedures of the ESD project can be adopted for the computerized
system.
The AU's accounting practices are govemed by provisions in the Administration Agreement and the
Operating Guidelines. However, there is no separate accounting guidelines for describing the accounting
policies of the project. With the proposed computerization, project accounting policies will be clearly spelt
out in the User Manual of the software.
Intemal Audit
DFCC Bank has an internal audit department. Nonetheless, project activities have not been subject to
internal audit by this department. Given the extemal audit, outsourced supervision arrangements for the
solar PV systems, and the satisfactory state of AU's financial management arrangements, this is not
considered to be a significant risk. The consultant for solar PV system verification will be appointed by
November 30, 2002.
Reporting and Monitoring
The AU has in place a comprehensive reporting and monitoring system in accordance with the Project
Administration Agreement for the ongoing ESD project. These reports are generated from the accounting
system based on a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet. The reports are submitted to the Bank on a quarterly basis.
Given the enhanced scale of the Project, a computerized system will be developed.
Format of Financial Statements
As the Project will adopt the report based disbursement specific FMR formats have been developed for the
project Financial reporting will be on the basis of these agreed formats. The FMRs will be the basis for the
annual financial statements of the project.
Information Systems
- 74 -



The AU maintains all financial and physical data about the ongoing ESD project in a Microsoft Excel
spreadsheet. Though this is satisfactory and is adequate for the purposes of the ongoing project, given the
scale of the Project, the AU needls to develop a computerized information system. The AU has agreed to
take necessary action to computerize the accounting system by March 31, 2003.
Given the scale of the Solar PV component, the AU intends to automate the process of verifying and
processing the claims under this component with the help of customized software.
Impact of procurement arrangenients
Procurement arrangements of th, project require IDA prior review of sub loans which involve procurement
of goods, works and turnkey contracts exceeding US$ 2 million, US$ 3 million, and US$ 5 million
respectively. Such contracts will follow the ICB procurement method. For contracts below these limits,
PCIs, MFIs and AU will review the sub loan request, and monitor procurement, to ensure that the
beneficiary follows standard coramercial practice. Nonetheless, for disbursement purposes, all project
payments for subloans will be claimed under the 'subloans' disbursement category, without drawing
distinction between goods and works. This practice is similar to that of the ongoing ESD project. To
summarize, the following actions have been agreed.
Action Plan
Action                      Responsible Person          Comnletion
FMR formats to be agreed      AU and the Bank             Completed
TORs for project auditor to be  AU           -            Completed
finalized
TOR for the solar PV systems  AU                          Completed
audit to be finalized
Project Auditor to be appointed  AU                      November 30, 2002
Solar PV System consultant to  AU                        November 30, 2002
be appointed
Computerized project          AU         -                March 31, 2003
accounting software to be
operationalized
Supervision Plans
From a financial management perspective, the project will need regular supervision. The focus during the
supervision will be to review PCI and MFI cornpliance with the agreements, and verify beneficiaries'
procurement and accounting practices on a sample basis.
2. Audit Arrangements
Project accounts will be audited by an extemal auditor and audit reports submitted to the Bank within
six-months of the end of the fiscal year. The fiscal year is January to December. Terms of Reference for the
project audit is given in Annex 2 of the financial management assessment report.(available in project files)
The auditor will be appointed by November 30, 2002.
Audit reports of the ongoing ESI) project have been satisfactory. Audit reports were received on a timely
- 75 -



basis and did not carry any major audit observations. Cost of external audit will be financed by the IDA.
Audit Reports
Following audit reports will be monitored in the ARCS:
Implementing Agency        Audit                      Auditor
DFCC Bank                  Project/SOE                To be appointed
DFCC Bank                  Special Account             To be appointed
3. Disbursement Arrangements
The project will adopt the report-based disbursement procedure on the basis of agreed FMRs. Given the
AU's demonstrated capacity under the ongoing ESD project, quarterly FMRs will not be difficult to
produce. Two sets of FMRs financial reports will be produced, i.e. for IDA funds and GEF grant. FMRs
will help simplify disbursements as well as to provide useful project infonnation to the AU and the Bank.
FMR reporting quarters would be March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31 of each year.
Allocation of crediUtgrant proceeds (Table C)
Table B: IDA Loan Disbursement Arrangements
Expenditure Category                Amount      Expenditures to be Financed
in US$
(millions)
1. Subloans under Part A of the Project  65.80  Upto 80% of amounts disbursed
(finance for Investment Projects)              in respect of subloans
2. Investment Project Preparation
grants
(a) Grants made for preparation       0.48       100% of amounts disbursed
activities and feasibility studies carried
out by tax-exempt consultants and non-
government entitites
(b) Other grants for preparation      0.63     80% of amounts disbursed
activities and studies
3. Sub-grants under Part A of the     1.27     100% of amounts disbursed
Project
4. Consultants' services, training and
internal audit expenses
(a) Individual consultants            0.13     80% of amounts disbursed
(b) Consulting firms                  0.51     80% of amounts disbursed
(c) training, workshops and study tours  0.13  80% of amounts disbursed
5. Goods                                       100% of foreign and ex-factory
0.10     costs and 75% of local
expenditures
6. Unallocated                        5.95
Total                             75.00
- 76 -



Table C: GEF Grant Disbursement Arrangements
Expenditure Category                  Amount in   Expenditures to be Financed
US$
(millions)
1. Investment Project Preparation Grants
(a) Grants made for preparation activities  0.25  100% of amounts disbursed
and feasibility studies carried out by tax-
exempt consultants and non-govermment
entities
(b)Other grants for preparation activities  0.05  80% of amounts disbursed
and studies
2. Subgrants under Part A of the Project  3.75    100% of amounts disbursed
3. Consultants' Services, training and
study tours
(a) Individual consultants               0.80     80% of amounts disbursed
(b) Consulting firms                     1.90     80% of amounts disbursed
(c) Training, workshops and study tours  0.15     80% of amounts disbursed
4.Goods                                  0.80     100% of foreign expenditures and
ex-factory costs and 75% of local
expenditures
5. Support for Administrative Unit       0.20     100% of amounts disbursed
6. Unallocated                           0.10
Total                              8.00
Special account:
To facilitate project implementalion the borrower shall open and maintain two Special Accounts (SAs) in
US$ in the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) on terms and conditions satisfactory to Il)A. There will be
two special accounts, one for IDA funds and one for GEF funds.
- 77 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
,PPoJect,ii,XhberduIe             ~                  7 'Planned'                Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)       12                           7
First Bank mission (Identification)              01/03/2002                   01/21/2002
Appraisal mission departure                                                   01/21/2002
Negotiations                                     05/06/2002                   05/06/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    07/31/2002           _
Prepared by:
DFCC Bank Administrative Unit and other stakeholder organizations, and the Government of Sri Lanka,
External Resources Department.
Preparation assistance:
NA
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Nname,                                    Speciality
S. Vijay Iyer                      Task Team Leader, Project Finance Specialist
Chandra Govindarajalu              Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Specialist
Malcom Cosgrove-Davies             Renewable Energy Specialist
Pradeep Perera                     Policy and Project Dialogue
Jon Exel                           Renewable Energy Business Development
Sriyani Hulugalle                  Financial Sector and Banking Specialist
Sumith Pilapitiya                  Environmental and Social Specialist
Raihan Elahi                       Energy Finance Specialist
Santhanam Krishnan                 Procurement Specialist
Vikram Raghavan                    Legal Counsel
Irene Julitta Rasiah               Financial Management Specialist
Trine Refsbaek                     Rural Energy/Development Specialist
Anna Goodman                       Program Assistant
Subodh Mathur                      Consultant - Renewable Energy
Jim Finucane                       Consultant - Solar
Ad Dankers                         Consultant - Biornass
Alfred Friendly                    Consultant - Editor
- 78 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
A. Project Implementation Plan
1.     Project Implementation Plan edited by ESD Administrative Unit (DFCC Bank)
2.     Sri Lanka Rural Electrification Policy
3.     Sri Lanka Energy Efficiency, Conservation and Demand Side Management Strategies for the
Electricity Sector
B. Bank Staff Assessments
3.     Financial Management Assessment
4.     Solar Business Analysis
C. Other
1.     ESD Solar Progress Reveiw (James Finucane)
2.     Village Hydro Potential Study - (ITDG)
3.     Energy Poverty Gender (EnPoGen) Sri Lanka Case Study
4.     Energy Services Delivery Project - Mid-Term Review
5.     GEF Focal Point Endorsement
6.     Sri Lanka Energy Services Delivery Project Independent Evaluation/GEF Project Comnpletion
Report (Integrated Resources Group Ltd.)
*Including electronic files
- 79 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
18-Apr-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount In USS Millions                             disbursements
Project ID    FY    Purpose                                      IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.    Undisb.      Orig   Frm Revd
P050738        2001 LAND TIT. & REL.SERV WIL)                         0.00      5.00                  0.00      0.00      4.76       0.36      0.00
P069784        2001 Disance Leaning InItiatiw - UL                    0.00      2.00                  0.00      0.00       1.30     -0.30      0.00
P071131        2001 LK Cenltrl Bank StrengtIng                        0.00     30.30                  0.00      0.00      28.46      3.75      0.00
P044809        2000 LEGAL AND JUCICIAL REFORMS                        0.00      18.20                 0.00      0.00      13.71     -3.53      0.00
P058070       2000 Norft-East bMgated Agriulture Project              0.00     27.00                  0.00      0.00      21.35      5.40      0.00
P035828        1998 CONS OF MEDIC PLANrS                              0.00      0.00                  4.60      0.00       1.44      0.57      0.00
P034212        1998 MAHAWEU RESTRUCTURi                               0.00      57.00                 0.00      0.00      24.58     16.94      0.00
P010525        1998 GENERAL EDUCATION II                              0.00     70.30                  0 00      0.88      38.12     35.38      0.00
P039965        1997 ENERGY SERV.DLVY.                                 0o00     24.20                  5.90      0.00       1.39      0.67       0.00
P010498        1997 ENERGY SERVICES DLW                               0.00      24.20                 5.90      0.00       2.57      4.40       0.00
P010513        1997 ENVRONMENTALACTION                                0.00      14.60                 0.00      0.00       4.59      5.54       0.00
P010526        1997 HEALTH SERVICES DEV                               0.00      18.80                 0.00      3.46       2.28      6.68       0.00
P042266        1996 TEACHER EDUWATION & TEACHER DEPLOYMENT            0.00      64.10                 0.00      0.00      18.01     24.72       5.69
P010517        1996 PVTSECTINFRASDEV                                  0.00      77.00                 0.00     15.02      38.66     62.80      3263
Total:       0.00      432.90              16.40       19.34     201.22     163.56      38.72
- 80 -



SRI LANKA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jan - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company                     Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity    Quasi  Partic
1999               Aitken Spence                0.00   2.73    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.73    0.00    0 00
1998               Apollo Lanka                 0.00    1.11   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1996/97            Asia Power                   0.00    0.00   0,00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999               Fitch Srilanka               0.00    0.09   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00
1997               LOFAC                        1.26   0.30    0.00    0.00    0.86    0.16    0.00    0.00
1981               Lanka Hotels                 0.00    0.64   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.64    0.00    0.00
1996               LankaOrixLease               0.56   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.56    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               MLL                          0.75   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.75    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               NDB Housing: Corp            0.00    1.06    0.00   0.00    0.00    1.06    0.00    0.00
1999               Nations Trust                0.00    1.09   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.09    0.00    0.00
1997               Packages Lanka               0.00    1.11   0.00    0.00    0.00    1.11    0.00    0.00
1999               SAGT                        35.00    7.30   0.00    0.00   12.00    3.62    0.00    0.00
2000               Suntel                       0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00   0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1988/95            Union Assunince              0.00    0.50   0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:       37.57   23.43    0.00    0.00   14.17   19.61    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Conmmitment
FY Approval       Cornpany                        Loan    Equity    Quasi    Parfic
Total Pending Commitment:       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00
- 81 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SRI LANKA. Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                    Sri    South   middle-
Lanka      Asia   Income      Development dlamond'
2000
Populatlon, mid-year (millions)                      19.4     1.355    2,046                 Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   850       460      1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     16.4      617     2,327
Average annual growth. 1994-00
Population {X)                                        1.3       1.9       1.0     GN
Labor force (X)                                       2.2       2.4       1.3     GNI                            Gross
per                            primary
Moot recent estimate (latest year avaliable, 1994-00)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)  25
Urban Population (6 of total population)              24        28        42
Life expectancY at birth (Years)                      73        63        69
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)               15       74        32
Child malnutrition (X of children under 5)            33        47        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an Improved water source (X of populatIon)  83        87        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   8        45        15
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  III      100      114              Sn Lanka
Male                                               112       110       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             110        90       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990      1999      2000
Economic ratios'
GDP (USS billions)                           40       8.0      15.7      16.3
Gross domestic investment/GDP               33.7     22.6      27.3      28.0                    Trade
Exports of Roods and services/GDP           32 2     29.2      35.5      39.7
Gross domestic savinqs/GDP                  11.2     13.8      19.5      17.2
Gross national savinos/GDP                  17.4     17.0      23.7      21.4
Current account balance/GDP                -16.2     -5.6      -3.6      -6.5     Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GDP                        0.8      1.5       1.0       1.1     savlngs
Total debt/GDP                              45.8     73.0      62.6      55.8 6   sa
Total debt service/exports                  12.0     13.5       9.9       9.5
Present value of debt/GDP                                                42.8
Present value of debt/exports                                            89.6
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000   2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                 4.0      5.3      4.3       6.0       3.9              SrLanka
GDP per capita                      2.5      3.9      2.8       4.3       2.9              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services       4.7      7.0      4.0       7.2       6.1
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990      1999      2000     Growth of Investment and GOP (%.
(X of GDP)                                                                       20
Agriculture                                 27.6     26.3      20.7      19.5
Industry                                    29.6     26.0      27.3      27.5    I
Manufacturing                              17.7    14.8       16.4     16.9           _
Services                                    42.8     47.7      52.1      53.0                            _
Private consumption                         80.3     76.5      71.5      72.4           a5    es    s,   98   as    00
General government consumption               8.5      9.8       9.0      10.4                -GDI         0*  GDP
Imports of goods and services               54.8     38.0      43.3      50.5
(average annual growth)                  1980-90  1990-00      1999     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                  2.2      1.9       4.5       1.7
Industry                                     4.6      7.0       4.8       7 5     c 
Manufacturing                               6.3     8.1        4.4      9.2
Services                                     4.7      6.0       4.0       6.8 s
Private consumption                          4.0      3.8       5.3       4.4
General oovernment consumption               7.3      8.8       5.3      24.4           a5    SE   97    O8    99   00
Gross domestic Investment                    0.6      6.4       6.4       6.2                  Exports  -   -mports
Imports of goods and services                3.4      8.6       7.0      12.9
Note: 2000 data are preliminary esUmates.
The diamonds show four key Indicators in the countrY (in bold) compared with Its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 82 -



Sri Lanka
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic pdtces                            1980     1990      1999     2000     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                      20
Consumer prices                             261     215        47        71     '/
Implicit GDP deflator                       20.0    20.1       4.2       7.1    to
Government finance
(0 of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                             23.5    23.2       18.3     17.0            90   9G    s7     99    99    0
Current budget balance                       5.0     0.9       -0.4     -3.3              -GDP deflator  _CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                    -19.2     -7.8      -6.9     -9.5 
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1980     1990      1998     2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                        1.065    1.913     4,610    5.522    aotoo
Tea                                        373      495       621      700
Other agricultural goods                   285      308       375      427     e.000
Manufactures                               360     628      3,308    4 012
Total Imports (cf                          2.051    2,689     5.980    7,320    _._00
Food                                       379     465        662      693     20_t
Fuel and energy                            442      310       500      901
Capital goods                              492      584     1,585     1.737       o -
94   90   99  97   90    99   00
Export price Index (1995=100)                36       57       139       151
Importpricelndex(1995=100)                   42       71       122       132                *Expots      MImports
Termssoftrade(1995=100)                       87      80       114       115
BALANCE ot PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999     2000      Current account balance to GOP (%)
(US$ millons)
Exports of goods and services              1,296    2.346    5578     6.475     o
Imports of qoods and services              2.197    3.054     6.800    8.235       *    f*
Resource balance                            -901    -708     -1.222   -1,760     2 --
Net Income                                   -26    -167       -254    -305
Net current transfers                       274      424       912      999        -i   ii4  
Current account balance                     452      -451     -564    -1,066    -8
Financing Items (net)                       371      537       413       549
Changes in net reserves                     282       -86      151       516     _
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)               435      1.639      910
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUSS)            16.5     40.1      70.6     77.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWII
1980     1990      1999     2000
(USS millions)                                                                   Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       1.841    5.863     9.797    9.065
IBRD                                       31       82        20        13                 0: 705 A 13
IDA                                        98      864      1.652    1.610                              B1,610
Total debt service                           179     384       674       738          F: 988
IBRD                                        5       14         8         7                                   C:1161
IDA                                          1       8        27        31
Composition of net resource flows
O/flcialrrants                             161     221       112       109
Official creditors                         135     307       160       159                                   D: 1780
Private creditors                          86       10       -83        83
Foreign direct investment                  43       43       176       173           E: 3,808
Portfolio eoultv                            0        0         8         6
World Bank program
Commitments                               152      321        56        18     A- IBRD                    E - BilatersI
Disbursements                              20      128        49        47     B -IDA    D- Other multIlateral  F - Pnvate
PrIncpal repayments                         3       10        21        24     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Netflows                                    18     118        28        23
Interest payments                           3       13        14        14
Net transfers                               15     105        14        10
Development Economics                                                                                              4/4102
- 83 -



Additional Annex 11: GEF Incremental Cost Summary
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Incremental Costs and Global Environmental Benefits
Introduction
The Government of Sri Lanka (GOSL) has requested the Bank to prepare a follow-on project to the
Bank-GEF-financed Energy Services Delivery (ESD) Project, which has a closing date of December 2002.
The Bank, GEF and GOSL are pleased with the progress that has been achieved under the ESD Project.
After some initial delays, all indications are that the ESD Project will meet or exceed its targets prior to
the project closing date (see Annex 13 for an ESD status report). As a result, GOSL and the Bank are keen
to build on the ongoing momentum in the follow-on project.
Complementarity of GEF and IDA Project Objectives
Like the ESD Project, this Project's objective features renewable energy prominently, and in this sense, the
GEF and IDA objectives in both projects are closely aligned. Prior to ESD, a nascent renewable energy
market existed in the country. Recognizing the strong potential of this subsector, the ESD Project objective
focused on developing a sustainable renewable energy market in Sri Lanka. As ESD draws to a close, this
market has reached the early stages of maturity, and could be characterized as in its adolescence.
The Project will pursue an objective which aligns GEF and IDA still more closely by supporting the Sri
Lankan renewable energy market to full maturity (of greater interest to GEF), and at the same time
focusing the renewable energy market more directly toward rural development (of greater interest to IDA).
Barriers to Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Development and Barrier Removal Strategy
The ESD Project has laid the foundations for sustainable growth of renewable energy industry in Sri
Lanka, but certain critical barriers still need to be addressed to allow this remarkable growth to reach its
full potential both in terms of global environmental benefits and in rural development impact. Though these
barriers are different for different technologies there are some common themes:
Market size needs to be increased in order to take advantage of economies of scale. One avenue for
this is to target poorer households and other niche markets.
Capacity building is still needed for achieving greater outreach and proliferating new renewable
energy technologies/applications.
Renewable energy needs to be integrated into general policies and strategies for the country's
energy sector development, including power sector reforms.
Availability of microfinance for off-grid (including solar PV) projects and long term finance for
grid connected projects needs to be enhanced.
Refinement is needed in pricing mechanisms for grid connected renewable energy projects.
Annex 13 provides a technology-specific summary of ESD progress and remaining barriers.
- 84 -



The Baseline
The baseline scenario is that the 'ESD Project ends as scheduled in December 2002, without a follow-up
project. In this scenario, further development of renewable energy in Sri Lanka would slow markedly, and
the foundations laid in the ESD project would likely begin to deteriorate over time. In particular, the lack of
a follow-on project is likely to be interpreted by many of the key stakeholders as a lack of commitment on
the part of the Bank and GEF, wi.thout whose support, the private sector and NGOs would be less likely to
invest further time and money in renewable energy. Government also would slowly lose its focus on
renewable energy as an important contributor to a sound power sector policy.
The Alternative (The Project)
The project will support provision of electricity through: (i) financing and grant mechanisms for solar home
systems and other solar energy applications in rural areas through private companies, NGOs and MFls; (ii)
developing and financing wind energy and biomass electricity projects; (iii) developing and financing small
hydro projects, both grid connected and off-grid; (iv) promoting income generation and social service
delivery improvements based on access of villages to electricity and (v) technical assistance for promotion
of energy conservation, household energy efficiency, development of carbon trading mechanisms and
integration of renewables into go vernment policy, provincial council development strategies and sector
reform initiatives. Co-financing would be sought for all five sub-components; in particular from GEF,
which cofinanced the ESD project as well. The project also would finance complementary energy sector
technical assistance related to renewable energy including: (i) energy efficiency and demand side
management initiatives, especiall y in promoting private sector delivery of efficiency services and to
facilitate faster implementation of EEBC; and (ii) technical assistance for sector reforms and addressing
renewable energy issues as relevant to the sector reform and development strategy.
Incremental Cost Summary
The proposed baseline and GEF alternative are described below by project component:
Grid-Connected Renewable Enegy
Baseline - In general, the baseline for grid connected renewable energy development in Sri Lanka would be
continued development of grid-connected mini-hydro in the near term. In the longer term biomass plants
could be expected to come on line, and possibly wind. The prospects for these latter two would be greatly
enhanced by the introduction of a carbon trading market in Sri Lanka. The prospects for such a market
developing are moderate in the medium term.
However, there are two serious concems relevant to further grid connected renewable energy development:
(i)    disputes between small power producers and CEB over the SPPA and Tariff, which have arisen in
the past, could resurface. In the absence of unbiased arbitration, the credibility of this legal
framework could suffer, Ieading to lack of confidence, and a resultant lack of interest in further
development; and
(ii)  the chronic lack of availability of long-term financing could choke further development.
The Government will continue its own efforts on power sector reform including staff and consultant work.
The portion of Govermment's efforts directly relevant to renewable energy is estimated at $100,000.
- 85 -



GEF Alternative - Limited GEF technical assistance support will be needed to assist the Government in: (i)
resolving the Small Power tariff issues relevant to all small-scale grid connected renewables, (ii) ensuring
that grid and off-grid renewables are properly incorporated into the Power Sector Strategy in general, and
the Rural Electrification Strategy and Plan in particular, and (iii) formulating policies and options for
possible participation in proposed international mechanisms and protocols, such as the Clean Development
Mechanism (CDM). The total cost of these activities will be $300,000, for an estimated incremental
cost of U$ 200,000; no GEF support is sought for the investments to be undertaken under this
component:
Grid-Connected Mini-Hydro. Baseline - Of all the renewable energy technologies now commercially
present in Sri Lanka, grid connected mini-hydro would fare the best under the baseline scenario
although the general concerns expressed above are relevant here. The industry is firmly based on the
continued existence of the Small Power Purchase Agreement (SPPA) and Tariff, and as long as these
remain in place, additional mini-hydro schemes could be expected to develop. GEFAlternative - The
Project will assist further mini-hydro development largely by means of the IDA-supported Credit
Program. This will ease the long-term financing constraint. There are no GEF incremental costs
associated with this investment
Grid-Connected Wind. Baseline - In the absence of the Project, wind development after ESD would
have an uncertain future. The proposed limited Project support in Sri Lanka's early CDM
development would not occur, reducing the prospects for early development of a CDM transaction in
support of Wind development. In addition, in the absence of the Project, a prospective wind power
developer would have great difficulty in locating the long-term rupee financing, the preferred financing
vehicle for local costs. It is likely that in the long term, a private wind farm would be established in Sri
Lanka, however, without the Project the schedule for this development would be extended considerably.
GEFAlternative - The project would support wind development through support in CDM development
and access to long-term credit. There are no GEF incremental costs associated with this investment.
Grid-Connected Biomass. Baseline - Biomass fuelled power generation is rarely used in Sri Lanka
today. However, current industrial tariff levels are causing some industries to explore alternative
power generation systems. This is especially true for industries such as tea and coconut processing
with access to significant biomass fuel sources. In the absence of the Project biomass power systems
would still develop, although technology introduction would be on an ad hoc uncoordinated basis.
Moreover, project developers would have difficulty in securing the necessary long-term financing
needed for these investments. In addition, the strict environmental and social safeguards required for
Bank projects would not be applied, leaving the more relaxed national standards in force. GEF
Alternative - The project would support biomass development through support in CDM development
and access to long-term credit. There are no GEF incremental costs associated with this investment.
component beyond the Grid Connected Renewable Energy support described above and to some extent,
the TA package described below.
Solar
Baseline. The rapid growth of the solar industry over the past 18 months, has created a broad-based rural
sales and service network supported by commercially viable and strongly committed companies. While this
progress is extraordinary, the Sri Lankan solar industry is still in a vulnerable position today. One key area
of vulnerability is the heavy reliance on a single microfinance institution (SEEDS) which is working hard to
catch up with solar industry expansion, but the growth from 10 household solar loans per month two years
ago to more than 1,000 per month is already straining its capacity. At present the delay between sales
- 86 -



closure and SEEDS paymnent to dihe solar dealer is an unacceptable 120 days, placing serious cash flow
constraints on the solar companies. There is an urgent need to develop new microfinance channels.
However, the baseline scenario of IDA/GEF withdrawal would send a strong signal of lack of confidence
and likely inhibit new market enirants.
Another point of vulnerability of the current solar industry is its limited ability to cope with the order of
magnitude transition in sales volumne. This is essentially the transition of moving from a small company
setting, which can operate successfully on semi-formal rules and procedures, to a large company, which
must rely far more heavily on eflicient business procedures and approaches. Moreover, the industry is
rapidly transforming its entire approach and in the near future can be expected to expand its business links
to more established retail marketing companies already operating on the island. The existing ntral
dealerships will have to ride this wave of change. This is a tall order for an organization which has only
recently commenced operation. T he rapid transition of the industry, will require nimble, visionary
management which also keeps a close eye on the bottom line. The "Tamil" peace process if it is successful,
will open a vast new market for solar. This will require another major expansion effort, on top of the one
already underway. While shocks and setbacks are likely, the baseline scenario of IDA/GEF withdrawal
would be a major shock which would pose a serious challenge to the industry.
GEF Alternative. The Project would provide support to the solar industry by providing a co-financing
grant for sale of solar systems on a $/Wp basis, with a particular focus on reaching a larger market
segment of smaller size systems. The focus on smaller size systems would also be consistent with the IDA
poverty alleviation objectives. The grant will be scaled back gradually over project life with a view to fully
phase-out GEF grant support before the end of the Project. In addition, technical assistance will be
provided for: new entrants to the industry to build their capacity, awareness programs specifically targeted
at poor households, and to encourage solar system usage for increased income generation.
Incremental Cost. Over the 20 year life of a solar system, an average household in the market for a solar
home system spends about US$ 536 over on kerosene and batteries which could be displaced by a 40 Wp
SHS, or about US$ 292 for similar services which could be displaced by a 2OWp SHS. The NPV of the
respective solar systems are US$ 615 and US$ 246 respectively. Weighted average system sales during the
project period result in an initial incremental cost of US$ 2.3/Wp for the systems eligible for grant support.
This means that the incremental cost begins in year one at US$ 2.3/Wp. However in future years, as the
ceiling for grant support reduces vhile sales of the larger systems continue to grow, the effective grant per
Wp declines considerably during the course of the project to less than US$ 0.5 /Wp in the final project
year. A total of 85,000 systems vwould be eligible for grant support, at an average size of 29 WI) results in
an incremental cost of US$ 5.7 million. See Annex 2 for a description of the grant mechanism.
Village Hydro
Baseline. The ESD Project is now, the major driver for village hydro development in Sri Lanka. In
particular, the project promotion grants have attracted interest from a group of consultants and NGOs,
which through ESD experience have built capacity in this area. In the baseline scenario, the project
preparation grants would cease, and as a result, the interest in promoting village hydros would quickly
wane. The reduction in financial viability resulting from the curtailment of the GEF cofinance grant would
stall virtually all of the current village hydro pipeline. Some Provincial Councils would provide support to
selected village hydros, and Regional Rural Development Banks would possibly support some initial
investments. However, the momentum gained in village hydro development would be almost completely
lost, with few additional projects developed beyond the existing pipeline.
- 87 -



GEF Alternative. The Project will provide project preparation grants and cofinancing grants through the
GEF assistance in support of village hydro development. The grant support will be scaled down over the
project life to a level that could sustainably be funded through other resources. GEF technical assistance
will be provided to communities and developers to increase the capacity to implement projects and
encourage use of energy to enhance income generation opportunities.
Incremental Cost. The incremental cost calculation for a village based renewable energy system
Calculations are based on the data collected from the village hydro projects financed by ESD project. At
this time, no experience on off-grid biomass and wind system exists in Sri Lanka, and it is assumed that
these cost would be similar to a village hydro. During project implementation actual costs will be collected
and incremental cost will be adjusted accordingly. were based on a least cost comparison for a typical
village of 50 households in Sri Lanka. The village uses for domestic purposes kerosene lamps, car batteries
and dry cell batteries for its non cooking energy supply. Exceptionally, a small diesel system is used for
water pumping, food processing or other productive activities. The kerosene lamps consumes about 12
liters of kerosene each month at an economic cost of Rs2O/liter per household. An average fifty percent of
the households use a car battery for radio, television and lighting, requiring recharging cost at least twice a
month and capital cost annualized to about RslO0 per month per household. In addition, two to three dry
cell batteries are used for lighting at a cost of Rs4O per month per household. The levelized cost of these
expenditures compared with a village based renewable energy system shows an incremental cost of US$
400/kW.
(Calculations are based on the data collected from the village hydro projects financed by ESD project. At
this time, no experience on off-grid biomass and wind system exists in Sri Lanka, and it is assumed that
these cost would be similar to a village hydro. During project implementation actual costs will be collected
and incremental cost will be adjusted accordingly.)
Small-Scale Wind
Baseline. Small scale wind systems are in use at scattered sites in Sri Lanka, but no coordinated
promotional activities have been undertaken. In the absence of the Project, a very small number of new
systems would be installed by innovative, enterprising individuals, but the potential environmental and
development impact of these systems would remain undeveloped.
GEF Alternative. The project will provide technical assistance for promotion of the off-grid wind energy
systems. In particular, support will be provided for demonstration of such systems and awareness building,
targeted at increasing the number of installations and developing the market for such systems.
Biomass Village Grids
Baseline. Village grid systems powered by biomass systems are unknown in Sri Lanka. In the absence of
the Project, this situation would likely remain for the foreseeable future, leaving the environmental and
development potential of this technology untapped.
GEF Alternative. The project will assist the setting up of the biomass supply chain for off-grid biomass
power generation. In addition a few number of demonstration projects on the (gasification) technology,
including distribution and the organization of the rural power companies. Awareness creation and
information dissemination on these demonstration projects completes the GEF assistance.
- 88 -



Energy Efficiency and DSM
Baseline
The ESD Project, through support to the DSM unit of the CEB, helped create a better environment for
energy efficiency and DSM wiithin Sri Lanka. Specifically, GEF support helped CEB in improving the
implementation and evaluatiorn of the audit program and the Compact Fluorescent Lighting (CFL) programn.
The training provided was also helpful in helping develop the ESCO industry. GEF assistance was also
provided for developing energy efficiency building codes (EEBC). In absence of fiirther GEF support, the
appliance labeling program initiated by the CEB will not be implemented and the DSM program will be
restricted to audits and CFLs. The Implementation of the EEBC will be limited in the absence of incentives
and demonstration efforts. ESCO market development will be slow due to the lack of capacity building
efforts and easy access to comnercial Bank financing.
Alternative
The this Project will provide GEF assistance to support CEB's labeling progamn, and to expand the range
of DSM activities. Implementation of EEBC will take place in two buildings (one new and one retrofit) to
demonstrate the benefits EEBC to consumers. Technical assistance will also be provided to promote ESCO
development in Sri Lanka.
Cross Sectoral Applications
Baseline
The use of energy for applications in health, education, water, agriculture, and other cross-sectoral
applications is generally not a subject emphasized by either designers or practitioners. In general,
electricity is either available from CEB, in which case it is taken for granted, or is not available, in which
case coping strategies are exercised, the most common of which is simply making do without electricity. In
some cases, diesel generators are installed, frequently with little planning for operation and maintenance
costs. With the recent increase in the solar PV market, this option would begin to find cross-sectoral
applications, but institutional inertia would likely result in very slow uptake of any renewable energy
solutions for cross-sectoral applications. In the absence of GEF support, there are expected to be no
expenses on renewable energy solutions in cross-sectoral applications.
Alternative
Through this Project, renewable energy solutions in cross-sectoral applications will be emphasized through
a combination of technical assistance and targeted investment support. In particular, technical assistance
will be provided to key cross-sectoral ministries such as health and education to: i) assess the impacts of
energy on their ability to effectively accomplish their goals; and ii) create standardized energy packages for
rural health, education, and other facilities to ensure that procurement, installation, operation and
maintenance are properly handled. Targeted investment support may also be required in selected
applications to demonstrate viability and replicability.
-89 -



Incremental Cost Matrix
Baseline                              Alternative                         Increment
Domestic   Thermal (i.e. fossil-fuel) based power sector Renewable energy share of generation  Mini-hydro,
Benefits   development continues with some ancillary  capacity increases fourfold over 5 year  Solar, Village
renewable energy development, amounting to baseline scenario. Thermal expansion  hydro
about 25 MW over the next five years.  will continue, but at a somewhat reduced  industries
Local environmental degradation associated  rate. Investments from largely local firms reach
with fossil fuels accelerates. Sri Lanka's  and generation based on indigenous  maturity
total absence of fossil fuel resources means  energy sources reduces reliance on
hat increased fossil fuel reliance translates  foreign currency reserves and allows  Wind,
directly to increased demand on foreign  profits to remain in Sri Lanka. Increased biomass
currency reserves.                    local employment. Reduction in local  technologies
environmental degradation.          firmly
New solar and off-grid project investments                                established.
slow considerably. Total of 20,000 solar
systems installed (0.6 MWp) over next five                                 Rural
years.                                                                    economic
development
results from
investments
in rural areas
(employment)
and increased
rural access
to electricity.
Global      Carbon emission reductions from 25 MW of Carbon emission reductions from  1,250,000 tones
Environment renewable energy generation, 20,000 SHS,  installation of 100 MW grid-connected  of carbon
al Benefits  and 10 village grid systems amounting to  renewables, 80,000+ SHS, and 100  emissions
450,000 tones of atmospheric carbon   village grid systems (1,700,000 tonnes of avoided
displaced.                             carbon displaced)
Cost by                                                                               ($US Million)
Component
Grid        General - Continued growth of known   General - Grid connected renewable   $0.2
Connected   technologies likely although future   energy would proceed far more quickly, by
Renewable   development will be heavily influenced by  increasing stability and investor confidence
Energy      small power purchase tariff as well as pace in this subsector. New technologies (wind
and direction of power sector reform  and biornass) would follow an accelerated
aseline expenditures on technical   development path in part through the
assistance and reforrn-related work directly operationalization of CDM. Development
relevant to grid-connected renewables: $0.1 and operation of distribution concessions
millon                                by small power producers strong
possibility depending on sector reform
progress. Alternative expenditures on
technical assistance and reforrn-related
work directly relevant to grid-connected
renewables: $0.3 million
- 90 -



Mini-h dini-hydro - Development of new projects                           -0-
pipeline as well as nevw investments will  beyond existing pipeline would continue
continue, pace and volume dependent on  with greater confidence.
small power tariff
Wind - development wrill only proceed with Wind - Development of first commercial  -0-
carbon financing                     wind farm. This experience could lead to
additional private wind development.
Biomass - current high industrial electricity Biomass - coordinated development leads  -0-
tariffs will impel rual industries to explore to faster, broader introduction of
biomass power generation, but development commercially viable systems.
will be uneven, uncoordinated, and slow
Solar PV    Developers will contirue marketing   Solar market encouraged to mature and  $4.9
Investments aggressively, but abrupt end of grant, and  stabilize, allowing smooth transition to
constraint of microfinmnce resources will  non-GEF operation. Solar also reaching
cause serious upheaval in industry, likely  poorer households. GEFAlternative $41.3
resulting in departure of one or more key  million.
industry players. Sales would slump to a
much lower volume, aid grow gradually
from there. Baseline: S36.4 million
Conmunity/ Village hydro development momentum would Steeply expanded village hydro   $0.5
off grid    be lost. New installations would steeply  development (80+ per year) at reduced
Investments decline to about 2 per year. Without benefit preparation costs and with increasing
of follow-up assistance, some existing village contributions from Government. TA to
hydros would fall out cf use before the end  solidify Village Hydro Users Group would
of their useful life. Potential for mini-grids offer key path to robust sustainability.
based on other renewable energy      Other renewable energy mini-grids
technologies (e.g. biomass) would remain  developed and incorporated into
undeveloped for the foreseeable future.  Independent Village Grid program. GEF a
Baseline per communiJy: $19,300      'ternative per 1I kWcommunity system.
$30,800 (increment = $400/kW)
nergy      DSM - Continued strong audit, load  QSM - Expanded DSM program (e.g.     $0.7
Efficiency  research, and lighting program, but weak  water supply, public lighting, etc.).
progress on labeling program, and slow  Demonstrate EEBC in two buildings.
implementation of energy efficiency building Refrigerator testing & labeling program.
code (EEBC). Baseline expenses by CEB  iternative expenses on expanded DSM
DSMBranch: $0.1 million.             program: $0.8 million.
Cross       Ad hoc energy design a&:d usage in health,  Cross-sectoral applications for renewable  $0.8
Sectoral    education, agriculture, water supply, etc.  energy given appropriate attention, helping
Applications would continue. Baseline expenses on  o catalyze increased efficiency and
cross-sectoral usage of renewable energy: effectiveness in delivery of products and
$0                                   services. GEF expenses on cross-sectoral
usage of renewable energy: $0.8 million
- 91 -



Coordinated technical assistance and pilots
Technical   Small-scale, highly targeted initiatives by  support national strategy resulting in rapid  $2.5
Assistance  local and international agencies would  uptake of commercially viable renewable
continue. Lack of coordination of these  energy systems. Alternative Technical
efforts would seriously compromise their  Assistance expenses: $2.75 million
impact. Baseline technical assistance
expenses: $0.25 million
Quantitative monitoring and evaluation of
Monitoring & Monitoring and evaluation of renewable  renewable energy progress and impacts,  $0.7
Evaluation  energy progress and impacts not explicitly  especially impacts on rural development
accounted for, but included in general power undertaken. Alternative M&E expenses:
sector M&E activities. Baseline M&E   $0.7 million
expenses: $0
GEF                                                                                   $10.3*
lncremental
Costs
* Of this total amount, GEF will finance US$ 8.00 million.and the Government will finance the balance
using US$2.3 million from the IDA Credit as grant.For detailed financing plan, see Annex 3.
Sustainability
The Technical Assistance and cofinancing grant structures included in the Project are specifically designed
to enhance sustainability of the Project supported activities during and after the project period. In
particular, there are several factors which will contribute to this sustainability goal:
(i)    a regime of declining GEF grants, with a transition to a more sustainable grant structure such as a
Rural Electrification Fund
(ii)   explicit incorporation of renewable energy into power sector planning in general and rural
electrification in particular
(iii)  a monitoring and evaluation program which is aimed at quantitatively assessing the contribution of
energy to rural development thus providing a clear indication of its value to decision makers and
civil society
(iv)   specific TA activities aimed at identifying potential barriers to sustainability and developing
mitigation strategies
Monitoring & Evaluation and Information Dissemination
The program also includes a strong emphasis on monitoring and evaluation of progress toward Project
objectives. The physical monitoring begun in the ESD Project will continue in an expanded way for the
Project. In addition, monitoring of rural development impact will be assessed by means of a panel survey
or other suitable program which uses repetitive visits to control and beneficiary villages to track changes
over time. Professional evaluation of the results will provide rigorous, unbiased informnation on actual
development impacts of the investments. This will be useful not only for Sri Lanka, but as an important
case study in the international development of renewable energy.
Information dissemination of project progress will take two tracks. Within Sri Lanka, detailed project
progress reports will be provided to MOPE and MOFP, and made available to other relevant public sector
decision makers and key opinion leaders in civil society. Outside Sri Lanka, progress of and results both
- 92 -



the ESD and the Project will be dissemninated through contributions to technical journals, conference
presentations, etc. The AU wiUl facilitate this information dissemination program, and will also serve to
facilitate visits to Sri Lanka froin other countries wishing to learn from its renewable energy experience.
Several such renewable energy study tour visits, from Laos, Cambodia, Bangladesh have already been
hosted by Sri Lanka under the ESD Project. These have provided useful insights into the design and
operation of a successful projeci1 as well as a time-efficient means of observing a wide range of renewable
energy (e.g. solar, mini-hydro, village hydro, wind) technologies in appropriate field operation.
GEF STAP Review and Response
A review of the GEF Project Brief, undertaken by Dr. Daniel Kamrnen, of the GEF Scientific and
Technical Advisory Panel, is attached. In general, the Task Teamn is in agreement with these comments,
and has incorporated relevant revisions into the document as appropriate. The exception is the
incorporation of conditions relating to opening of Pension Funds for renewable energy investments and the
implementation of a rural electrification subsidy mechanism. While the team agrees in principle on these
issues, we believe that conditionality is not the appropriate way to implement them. The Government has
indicated a willingness to follow through on these issues, and has shown good progress in this regard.
- 93 -



UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA. BERKELEY
BERKCELEY * DAVIS * IRVINE * LOS ANGELES * RIVERIDE * SANDIEGO * SAN FRAiNCISCD 
SANTA BARBARA * SANTA CRLZ
Energy and Resources Group                                Daniel M. Kammen
310 Barrows Hall                                          Professor of Energy and Society
University of California                                  Professor of Public Policy
Berkeley, CA 94720-3050                                   Director,
WWW: http://socrates.berkeley.edu/erg                     Renewable and Appropriate
Energy Laboratory
Fax: (510) 642-1085                                       Email:
dkammen@socrates.berkeley.edu
Tel: (510) 642-1139 (Office)
Tel/Fax: (510) 643-2243 (RAEL)
March 9, 2002
To:    Mac Cosgrove-Davies, Subramanium V. Iyer, Jon Exel
From: Daniel M. Kammen
Re:    Review of: Sri Lanka Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development Project (P076702)
Summary:
This is an important project, which builds on and expands a largely successful GEF project already in
place in Sri Lanka. There is clearly a benefit to moving this extension/expansion phase into operation,
there is a danger to magnify some of the problematic aspects of this project if this is done too quickly. I
recommend that either an interim project be approved, or that the full-scale effort be initiated in conjunction
with an outside review. The review would then need to be formally recognized so that the new project will
have a clear timetable to evaluate and if appropriate act on the recommendations of the review at a stage
still early on in the new Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development Project.
In that context I recommend support for this project.
Major Comments:
- 94 -



The Project builds on the ongoing Energy Services Delivery (ESD) Project, which was originally scheduled
to close in December 2002. IcLeally, the Project would incorporate the results of an ESD Project
Completion Review. However, the ESD Project has gained considerable momentum over the last 18
months, and is now expected to be fully disbursed well before the scheduled closing date. Even with the
proposed fast-track processing of the Project, this faster-than-expected project completion will result in a
funding gap of several months for renewable energy industries which have just begun to reach sustainable
business volumes. This funding gap will result in a severe shock, especially to the solar industry which is
in a heavy expansion mode and therefore quite sensitive to such shocks. Increasing this gap by several
months to provide time for conducting and incorporating a full completion review would be counter
productive to the GEF/IDA objectives for both ESD and the Project. However, there is also a risk that
problems existing in the ESD Project may be replicated - on a larger scale - in the Project. To address this
issue while still maintaining the fast track approach, I have two recommendations:
Commission the Project Completion Report immediately to minimize delays in defining key
lessons for the Project
*      Buildflexibility for the Project design to ensure there is room to incorporate lessons. In
particular, flexibility slhould be included in the Credit Program Operating Guidelines, the Eligibility
Criteria for the Participating Credit Institutions, and the overall Technical Assistance Package.
The ability to modify project design details in these areas should permit sufficient flexibility to
incorporate lessons identified in the Project Completion Report.
Solar Market Development - The rapid growth of the Sri Lankan solar market over the past 18 months is
one of the most interesting aspects of the Energy Services Delivery Project. This unprecedented market
growth, and the prospects for klng-term sustainability, warrant a detailed review by an independent expert
with broad knowledge of international solar market experience. This will provide not only important
lessons to apply to the Project, but also to other projects now under preparation internationally.
*      The Project Completion Report should include a subtask which focuses on the experience and
prospects for the Sri Lankan solar market.
Microfinance - One key element of the recent solar market development is the introduction of microfinance
to support household purchases. However, only one microfinance institution is currently providing this
service, and its capabilities are not keeping pace with industry growth. The Project Appraisal Document
(PAD) rightly identifies this as a critical issue for further market growth, and a potential point of
vulnerability.
*      The Project should include TA activities specifically focused on: i) upgrading the capabilities of
the existing microfinan ce provider; and ii) rapidly inducting new microfinance providers into the
program including traditional microfinance institutions as well as rural retail outlets which
themselves provide credit and perhaps leasing companies.
Grid Connected Renewable Energy Market Development - The Project proposes to support a substantial
expansion (100 MW, in addition to the -30 MW installed under ESD) of grid connected renewable energy.
This includes mini-hydro, for whlich the market was established under ESD, and also two new market
areas: biomass and wind. It is clear that Sri Lanka has renewable resources in both of these new areas, but
the financial viability of a Sri Lamkan wind or biomass power market has not been proven. The project
includes GEF support for private development in these areas in the form of cost-sharing of business plan
development, but no GEF grant support for investments. Instead, GEF support would assist in the initial
- 95 -



development of a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) carbon trading regime that could provide
additional 'climate change' funding for these private investments. While I'm supportive of this overall
approach, the PAD should more clearly explain the division of responsibility - and funding - between the
GEF support and the future CDM support.
Clarify the division of responsibility andfunding between GEF and CDM activities, and in
particular, ensure a clear mechanism is in place to prevent commingling of GEF and CDM funds.
Long-Term Sustainability - The case for GEF support as presented in the PAD is clear and compelling.
However, it must also be clear that additional GEF support beyond the Project should not be expected.
Similarly, Sri Lanka may graduate from IDA during the Credit period. For these reasons, a follow-on
project modeled after the Project is unlikely. The project design therefore rightly places emphasis on
long-term, post-project sustainability. In particular:
with regard to access to long-term funds, the task team should consider a condition requiring the
Government to open pension funds or other available sources of long-term liquidity to Participating
Credit Institutions
a condition should also be considered linking progress on the rural electrification subsidy
mechanism to the project processing schedule
Detailed Comments
Page 4, under "the Electricity Sector' - 'This implies an investment of US$ 1-1.2 billion dollars in
generation, transmission and distribution if only the grid is extended to provide access; the greater
utilization of renewable energy systems will reduce these costs".
This calculation is unclear, and does not appear to be full documented in the appendices.
Page 5, under 2.3 Rural Electricity Access and Rural Economic Development - "All indications are that
the ESD Project will meet or exceed its revised -targets for Solar Home Systems (revised downwards from
30,000 units to 15,000 units at mid-term, because of a slow start) and the original key targets for all
other components prior to the project closing date."
Italics mine: the reasons for this slow start should be described. Is this simply initial setup, or are there
functional features of the project that should be addressed (i.e. see comment on page 1, para 2, above).
The PCD lists (pages 63 and 65) criteria for qualifying MFIs and PCIs. What are these based on?
Page 10 - under Solar PV investments - "In particular, the project will provide refinance, grant, and TA
support to seek to solidify the existing middle-range solar home system market and expand service to other
applications such as: i) smaller systems accessible to a poorer market segment; ii) community applications
for health clinics, schools, street lighting, etc.; and iii) commercial systems for water pumping, telecom, and
other applications."
The expansion to school, clinic, and other markets is not straightforward (as was seen in the South African
RAPS efforts). A more detailed plan, with market assessment and testing of usage/economic returns in
this area is needed
Same para - '"he indicative targets are 85,000 household systems and 2,000 community, commercial and
- 96 -



institutional systems". How are these targets deternined?
Page 12 - "For rural householIs, there will be direct and indirect benefits of increased access to adequate
and reliable supplies of electricity from off-grid supply or solar photovoltaic systems, which will improve
the quality of their lives and expand income producing opportunities. "
This assessment needs to be donLe more carefully. Because Sri Lanka is such a small country, off-grid
areas are never all that far from grid-connected areas. So all commercial activity is concentrated primarily
in the grid-connected towns, and people from off-grid areas come into these towns for their business. The
only off-grid commercial activity are a few shops, but this is really not all that frequent. SELCO has been
trying to target this sector, but apparently they find this sector is marginal.
There are some areas where a market could develop, and appears promising. Sri Lanka has a very large
garments export industry. One could provide loans for solar-powered sewing machines for women to use in
off-grid areas.
Another opportunity is to develop housing in off-grid areas with a SHS built in to the house. Combine
house loan + solar loan. This cc'uld also address war refugee issues.
Middle of page 17 - "It is easier to make a commercial run village hydro project more social than the visa
versa " and "Adopt light-handed regulation for local, rural situation".
These statements, at minimum, need some documentation.
Bottom of page 41 - "The design is flexible, with changes being introduced in response to implementation
experience, based on reports and information brought together by the AU and the findings of Bank
supervision missions. The most cTitical change introduced during ESD implementation was the
modification of eligibility criteria to permit a non-bank microfinance organization to be a PCI."
Page 56 - "Through NGOs, pooIr households will be taught handicraft skills."
This notion, while excellent in theory, does not seem to fit with the ongoing project or the available
resources. How specifically will this be implemented.
Page 66 - Do any of these banks currently lend for SHS purchases?
Page 75: A summary of the ZES]) Solar Progress Solar review should be included.
Page 79, table 11.1 - For SHS - "Global technical and service quality standards in place". Current
program does not do enough to emphasize service.
Bottom of page 84 - The incremental cost calculations are sound..
Page 93 - Criteria No. 2 - "In orcler to become eligible to participate in the ESD Credit Program and to
maintain their eligibility, credit institutions must be privately owned and controlled, and meet the following
criteria".
Has there been an assessment to see if there are privately owned credit institutions who are interested in
SHS, or micro-hydro systems?
- 97 -



The document should also address the means to support financing for technician training programs and the
SLBDC awareness program.
Page 83 - "Another point of vulnerability of the current solar industry is its limited ability to cope with the
order of magnitude transition in sales volume. This is essentially the transition of moving from a small
company setting, which can operate successfully on semi-formal rules and procedures, to a large company,
which must rely far more heavily on efficient business procedures and approaches."
As stated on the page 2 comments, these limitations may largely be due to the cash flow issues facing
SELCO.
References:
Duke, R.D., Jacobson, A.,and Kammen D.M. (2002), "Product Quality in the Kenyan Solar Home Systems
Market," in press, Energy Policy.
Available online at: http://socrates.berkeley.edu/-rael/qualityshs.pdf
Kammen, D. M. (1999) "Bringing power to the people: Promoting appropriate energy technologies in the
developing world", Environment, 41 (5), 10 - 15, 34 - 41.
Kammen, D. M., Bailis, R, and Herzog, A.V. (2001) "Clean Energy for Development and Economic
Growth: Biomass and Other Renewable Energy Options to Meet Energy and Development Needs in
Poor Nations," UNDP report for the 7th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change (COP7-UNFCCC): Marakech, Morocco (October 29 - November 9), 111 pages, in
press.
Available online at: http://socrates.berkelev.edu/-rael/RAEL UNDP Biomass CDM.pdf
Kammen, D. M., Bailis, R., and Herzog, A.V. (2001) "Clean Energy for Development and Economic
Growth: Biomass and Other Renewable Energy Options to Meet Energy and Development Needs in
Poor Nations," UNDP report for the 7th Conference of the Parties to the UN Framework Convention
on Climate Change (COP7-UNFCCC): Marakech, Morocco (October 29 - Novernber 9), l1l pages, in
press.
Available online at: http://socrates.berkelev.edu/-rael/RAEL UNDP Biomass CDM.pdf
Martinot, E., Chaurey, A., Lew, D., Moriera, J. and Wamokunya, N. (2002) "Renewable energy markets
in developing countries", Annual Review of Energy and the Environment, 27, in press.
- 98 -



RESPONSE TO STAP REVIEW COMMENTS
General Comments
Overview:     Recommend that either an interim project be approved, or that the full-scale effort be
initiated in conjunction with an outside review.
Res.   The outside review wil! be undertaken and completed by end June 2002. Extensive reviews by the
Bank and outside entities of the ESD Project have not identified serious problems. It is
anticipated that lessonsfrom the outside review can be incorporated into the project through the
flexiblility described in the response to C1.2 below.
Cl. 1. Project Completion Review - Commission the Project Completion Report immediately to minimize
delays in defining key lessons for the Project.
Res.:  Agree. Furthermore, a lessons learned/best practice study will be conducted before closing of the
ESD project.
C1.2. Project Completion Revdew - Build flexibility into Project design to ensure there is room to
incorporate lessons.
Res.:  Agree. One of the main lessons learned during the implementation of the ESD project was that
fine-tuning of the design as well as adaptation to the changing reality requires rural and
renewable energy projects to be flexible. The multiple driving elements (commercial financing,
publicfinancing, NGOs, MFIs, commercial businesses, etc) that come together in any of these
projects on a national, regional and local level should allow close monitoring and real time
interference. This has been included as much as possible in the design of the project.
C2.    Solar Market Development - The Project Completion Report should include a subtask which
focuses on the experience and prospects for the Sri Lankan solar market.
Res.:  Agree. In addition, the assignment will document the experiences and lessons learnedfor
replication purposes in other countries and programs.
C3.    Microfinance - The Project should include TA activities specifically focused on: i) upgrading the
capabilities of the existiag microfinance provider, and ii) rapidly inducting new mnicrofmance
providers into the program including traditional microfinance institutions as well as rural retail
outlets which themselves provide credit and perhaps leasing companies.
Res.:  Agree, this technical assistance has been included as one of the packages mentioned under
component v of the project.
C4.    Grid Connected Renewable Energy Market Development - Clarify the division of responsibility
and funding between GE]F and CDM activities, and in particular, ensure a clear mechanism is in
place to prevent commingling of GEF and CDM funds.
- 99 -



Res.:  Agree. The Government with support of DFID has conducted a first activity to identify the key
issues that need to be addressedfor an effective operational mechanism for CDM activities. With
support of the World Bank, the Ministry of Environment is embarking on National Strategy
Studies which will include baseline studies and institutional arrangements. The project will
complement these activities to remove additional barriers for project sponsors to obtain the
fuinds.
C5. 1. Long-Term Sustainability - with regard to access to long-term funds, the task team should
consider a condition requiring the Government to open pension funds or other available sources of
long-term liquidity to Participating Credit Institutions
Res.:  Agree in principle. However, condition is not necessary at this stage as Government has agreed
on the approach and is actively pursuing the option through the Administrative Unit who is
facilitating a dialogue between the national Pension Fund (EPF) and the Participating Credit
Institutions to allow the EPF to purchase bonds at market rates.
C5.2. Long-Term Sustainability - a condition should also be considered linking progress on the rural
electrification subsidy mechanism to the project processing schedule.
Res.:  Agree in principle. However, the Government has agreed on the issue and is taking steps to
address these. A first outcome is a draft Rural Energy Policy paper, which is a condition of
project negotiation.
Detailed Comments
Comments                                      Responses
Page 4, under "the Electricity Sector' - "This  The calculation is part of the grid extension
implies an investment of US$ 1-1.2 billion dollars  plans of CEB and the current cost of
in generation, transmission and distribution if only  extending the grid by CEB. The cost per
the grid is extended to provide access; the greater  household of about US$600 are within the
utilization of renewable energy systems will reduce  intemational accepted parameters of
these costs". This calculation is unclear, and does  US$250 to US$1,000 per household and
not appear to be full documented in the appendices.  found to be realistic.
Page 5, under 23 Rural Electricity Access and  ere was a slow start because of (i) the
Rural Economic Development - "All indications  learning curve companies had to go through
are that the ESD Project will meet or exceed its  including the establishment of the rural
revised -targets for Solar Home Systems (revised  infrastructure and (ii) the non participation of
downwardsfrom 30,000 units to 15,000 units at  micro financing institutions. Major
mid-term, because of a slow start) and the original  movement in the market started after one of
key targets for all other components prior to the  the local solar companies was purchased by a
project closing date." The reasons for this slow  large multinational solar company (Shell
start should be described. Is this simply initial  Solar) prompting all market players to
setup, or are there functional features of the project  significantly expand their market presence.
that should be addressed (i.e. see comment on page
1, para 2, above).
The PCD lists (pages 63 and 65) criteria for  Previous successful project experience in Sri
qualifying MFIs and PCIs. What are these based  Lanka (for the commercial and development
on?                                          banks, and Bangladesh (for the MFI). These
- 100 -



were augmented by best practice experiences
world wide.
Page 10 - under Solar PV investments - "In   Agree that more work is needed, but to the
particular, the project will provide refinance, grant,  extent possible, there will be a demand-driven
and TA support to seek to solidify the existing  approach to support. For expanding the solar
middle-range solar home system market and    market to smaller systems, the existing
expand service to other applications such as: i)  dealers are well placed to develop their own
smaller systems accessible to a poorer market  plans. TA will be provided to the
segment; ii) community applications for health  cross-sectoral ministries to develop
clinics, schools, street lighting, etc.; and iii)  appropriate approaches for health, education,
commercial systems for water pumping, telecom,  etc. The.'innovation solicitation' approach
and other applications." The expiansion to school,  also will be used to bring forth approaches on
clinic, and other markets is not straightforward (as  a market basis.
was seen in the South African RAPS efforts). A
more detailed plan, with market assessment and
testing of usage/economic returns in this area is
needed.
Same para - "The indicative targets are 85,000  The targets are based on business plans from
household systems and 2,000 community,       solar dealers, village hydro facilitators,
commercial and institutional systems". How are  statistics from AU, PCIs, and business plan
these targets determined?                    MFI. Current monthly sales for solar home
systems for the industry is 1,300. In a
conservative scenario with no further growth
in monthly sales this would lead to 78,000 or
about 50% of the real market.
page 12 - "For rural households, there will be  Other country experiences have taught us that
direct and indirect benefits of increased access to  a lot of productive opportunities with regard
adequate and reliable supplies of electricity from  to electricity are available. With a focused
off-grid supply or solar photovoltaic systems,  roductive uses program for example in
which will improve the quality of their lives and  Indonesia a substantial amount of new
expand income producing opportunities. " This  businesses emerged or existing businesses to
assessment needs to be done more carefully.  more efficient and lower cost electricity
Because Sri Lanka is such a small country, off-grid  operation.
areas are never all that far from grid-connected
areas. So all commercial activity is concentrated  One of the dealers had a promotional activity
primarily in the grid-connected towns, and people  where they provided free sewing machines if
from off-grid areas come into these towns for their  household purchased their solar system.
business. The only off-grid commercial activity are
a few shops, but this is really not all that frequent.
SELCO has been trying to target this sector, but
apparently they find this sector is marginal. There
are some areas where a market could develop, and
appears promising. Sri Lanka has a very large
garments export industry. One could provide loans
for solar-powered sewing machines for women to
use in off-grid areas.
Another opportunity is to develop housing in  In keeping with the project approach of
off-grid areas with a SHS built in to the house.  encouraging market driven solutions, this
- 101 -



Combine house loan + solar loan. This could also  suggestion could become a strategy of one of
address war refugee issues.                 the solar dealers.
Middle of page 17 - "It is easier to make a  We have addressed this in the text.
commercial run village hydro project more social
than the visa versa " and "Adopt light-handed
regulation for local, rural situation". These
statements, at minimum, need some documentation.
Bottom of page 41 - "The design is flexible, with
changes being introduced in response to
implementation experience, based on reports and
information brought together by the AU and the
findings of Bank supervision missions. The most
critical change introduced during ESD
implementation was the modification of eligibility
criteria to permit a non-bank microfinance
organization to be a PCI." Excellent and important
point.
Page 56 - "Through NGOs, poor households will  Several NGOs have experience in this area
be taught handicraft skills." This notion, while  and will work with dealers, MFIs and NGOs
excellent in theory, does not seem to fit with the  to integrate as need be.
ongoing project or the available resources. How
specifically will this be imnplemented.
Page 66 - Do any of these banks currently lend for  One commercial has given a few SHS and a
SHS purchases?                               development bank has on-lent to an MFI for
SHS loans. However the reluctance of most
of these banks to loan for SHS was the
incentive for brining in the first MEI.
Page 75: A summary of the ZESD Solar Progress  Several of the results have been included in
Solar review should be included.            the detailed project description.
Page 79, table 11.1 - For SHS - "Global technical
and service quality standards in place". Current
program does not do enough to emphasize service.
This, again, is an important point that will be
come increasingly central over time.
Bottom of page 84 - The incremental cost
calculations are sound..
Page 93 - Criteria No. 2 - "In order to become  Several of the PCIs have provided credit for
eligible to participate in the ESD Credit Program  village hydro and some also for SHS.
and to maintain their eligibility, credit institutions  However the Project will include a redoubled
must be privately owned and controlled, and meet  effort to bring in additional consumer finance
the following criteria.". Has there been an  institutions.
assessment to see if there are privately owned
credit institutions who are interested in SHS, or
micro-hydro systems?
The document should also address the means to  This is part of the technical assistance
support financing for technician training programs  ackage as mentioned under the solar
- 102-



and the SLBDC awareness progam.               component.
Page 83 - "Another point of vulnerability of the  In varying degrees, this issue is affecting all
current solar industry is its limited ability to cope  of the solar dealers.
with the order of magnitude trarsition in sales
volume. This is essentially the transition of moving
from a small company setting, which can operate
successfully on semi-formal rules and procedures,
to a large company, which must rely far more
heavily on efficient business procedures and
approaches."
As stated on the page 2 commein,ts, these limitations
may largely be due to the cash flow issues facing
SELCO.
- 103 -



Additional Annex 12: Operating Guidelines for the RERED Credit Program
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Part 1. Credit and Grant Arrangements
Measure                                      Arrangement/Entity
1. Loan Amount and Fmancing   * Total estimated project cost: US$ 133.7 million; IDA: US$ 75.0 million, GEF:
Sources                       US$ 8.0 million and others US$ 50.7 million.
* US$ 10.0 million from IDA has been earnarked for off grid projects and will be
reviewed at mid-term evaluation.
2. Borrower                 Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
3. Executing Agency         DFCC Bank/Administrative Unit (AU)
4. Estimated Commitment     Four and half years for grid connected and five years for off-grid projects after Credit
Period                   Effectiveness
Interest Rates
5. Service Charge to        Standard Service Charge levied by the International Development Association (IDA)
Government of Sri Lanka
(GOSL)
6. Interest Rate to Participating  * Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR) which is the weighted average of the
Credit Institutions (PCIs)  interest rates paid to depositors by all commercial banks on interest-bearing term
deposits, as issued weekly by the Central Bank, or another appropriate rate to be
determined during project implementation by GOSL in consultation with IDA.
* Rate subject to revision (both new and existing loans) every six months.
7. Interest Rate from PCIs to  To be determined by PCIs in agreement with their clients.
Final Borrowers
Maturity Structure of Credit
and Subloans
8. IDA to GOSL              Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity.
9. GOSL to PCIs             Amortization based on an aggregate of individual subloans, repayable in 20 equal
semi-annual installments imnmediately following the date of the sixty-sixth month's
anniversary on which the PCI made the first withdrawal.
10. Subloans                 * Maximnum ten years, including maximum two-year grace.
* Maximum maturity not to exceed useful economic life of equipment financed.
11. Applicant Eligibility   Any private enterprises, NGOs, cooperatives and individuals operating in Sri Larika
Criteria                 are potentially eligible, subject to PCIs' creditworthiness assessment.
12. Eligible Subprojects     * Private investment proposals for (i) grid-conmected renewable energy power
projects (with capacity not more than about 10MW); (ii) off-grid village based
renewable energy power projects; (iii) solar home systems; (iv) other renewable
energy investments and (v) energy efficiency, conservation and demand side
management (DSM) investments.
* Funds cannot be used for financing or acquisition of existing assets (including
land) or refinancing of existing debts or accrued interest.
13. Maximum Amount of       Maximum of US$ 8.0 million for any one subproject, or single borrower exposure limit
Refinancing              of concerned PCI, whichever is lower.
14. Portion of Subloan      Maximum of 80 percent of PCI total loan amount for a specific subproject.
Refinanced
Other Measures
-104 -



15. Responsibility of         0 Process disbursement requests for loans approved by PCIs under their 'free limit'
Administrative Unit (AU)     and process disbursement requests for loans above PCIs free limit approved by
IDA. Process disbursement requests for GEF grant co-financing. Free-limit for
subloans is US$ 1.0 million.
* With respect to subloans and GEF grant cofinancing, maintain disbursement
records and accounts of each PCI, keep supporting disbursement documents, and
keep bank accounts relating to disbursement. Maintain Project Accounts.
* Appoint independent auditors to continuously verify data entry by solar companies
and perform systems reviews in respect of cofinancing grant disbursement requests
made to the AU.
* Inform IDA from time to time regarding the progress of the Project, provide
regular reports on the progress of the Project, and assist IDA and GEF supervision
and/or evaluation missions.
e Maintain RERED credit program related statistical records.
D Monitor timely preparation and submission by PCIs to AU of subproject
completion reports.
o Submit quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) on the RERED Project
and other periodic reports (e.g., semi-annual collection performance report) as
required by GoSL, IDA and GEF.
* Perform project support including facilitating barrier removal with stakeholders,
procurement of consultants, award of contracts, and monitoring of Technical
Assistance assignments.
lo Perform other tasks and functions as are necessary to achieve the objectives of the
Project.
16. Loan Approval           The following are subject to approval by IDA: (i) the first two subloan proposals,
Procedures (if not       inespective of size, presented by each PCI, (ii) subloan proposals above the 'free
previously satisfied under  linit', (iii) each PCI's first solar home systems subloan proposad, (iv) each subproject
ESD Project)             developer's first solar home systems subloan proposal, (v) each PCI's firs
grid-connected hydro, wind and biomass proposal and (vi) each PCI's first village
based hydro, wind and biomass proposal.
17. Environmental/Social    In accordance with national standards and procedures as mentioned in the Environment
Assessment Requirements  and Social Assessment Framework prior review is required for: (i) all biomass projects;
(ii) mini hydro projects >5MW; (iii) wind projects >IOMW; (iv) all projects involving
land acquisition and/or resettlement. Also, the first two EAs of mini hydro power,
biomass, and wind power projects require IDA prior review.
18. Subloan Documentation    *l Subloans involving refinancing below  'free limit': (i) PCI confimation of
Requirements to be           assessment of creditworthiness  of subborrower including  description  o
furnished for refinancing    business(es); (ii) description of project and confirmation of compliance with IDA
approval                     procurement requirements and adequate due diligence in appraisal; (iii) list o
goods and services to be financed; (iv) project costs and financing; (v) PCI
confirnation that terms and conditions of subloans including adequate insurance o
subproject assets; (vi) timetable for implementation; (vii) evidence of fil
compliance with environmental and social framework; (viii) financial justification
for the project, and (ix) any other informaiton as agreed betweeen IDA and AU.
* Additional information for refinancing above the "free limit". Appraisal report o
the project which will include: (i) cash flow projections for subborrower and th
project; (ii) assessment of technical and commercial feasibility; and (iii) financial
- 105 -



justification for the project.
19. Procurement Procedures   * For Credit Line Component, bid packages over US$2.0 million for goods
contracts, over US$3.0 million for works contracts and over US$5.0 million for
turnkey contracts are subject to International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
requirements.
* Goods contracts for technical assistance: (i) over US$200,000 are subject to ICB;
(ii) between US$25,000 and US$200,000 subject to NCB; and (iii) good and work
contracts less than US$25,000 local/intemational shoppping with a minimum of
three quotations.
* Consulting service contracts for firms above: (i) US$100,000 QCBS shall be used;
and (ii) less than US$100,000 CQ shall be used. Consultancy service contracts for
individuals shall be based on requirements as per paragraph 5.1 - 5.3 of Guidelines
for Selection and Employment of Consultants.
* With regard to Parts B and C of the Project the first two contracts each year
regarless value will require prior review of IDA.
20. Disbursement Procedures  * Eligibility of expenditures: (i) below prior procurement review limits would be
ascertained by AU and disbursements of expenditures for all subloans would be
made on the basis of PCIs' submission of full documentation; (ii) above the prior
review limits, AU to submit reimbursement applications to IDA for
review/approval.Documentation evidencing expenditures to be kept by AU in
respect of grid-connected subprojects and with PCIs in the case of off-grid
subprojects, for external audits and for review by World Bank missions.
* Reimbursement available for project-related expenditures made within 120 days
prior to World Bank/AU receipt of subloan/subproject proposals together with
corresponding subproject documentation. The 120 day limit will be relaxed until
September 30, 2002 for ESD eligible claims for which no re-financing and grants
were available under the ESD project. These projects will be subject to and paid on
RERED terms.
* AU would have the authority to notify the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) to
make payments from the Special Accounts and would be responsible for keeping
track of these Accounts.
21. Audit Requirements       * Annual external audit required of Special Accounts, and separate opinion on FMR.
* Annual external audit required of PCIs' financial statements and its compliance
with the eligibility criteria.
22. Exchange Risk           GOSL would bear all foreign exchange risk.
23. Assessment of Compliance  Supervision Department of Central Bank of Sri Lanka or other relevant regulatory
with Prudential Regulations  agencies would confirm that PCIs conform with prudential regulations, taking into
by PCIs                  account eligibility criteria for each PCI. For PCIs not under the CBSL supervison,
evaluator to be hired by AU and report to IDA.
Grant Arrangements                Off-grid village based hydro, wind, biomass systems &
Off-grid household based solar, wind systems
24. Basis and Amount of GEF  Off-grid, non-solar sub-projects:
Grant Cofinancing        $400 per kW installed, up to a maximum of $ 20,000.
Off-grid solar:
Yearl: 10 to < 2OWp (US$ 40); 20 to < 4OWp (US$ 70); 40 to 6OWp (US$ 70);
Years 2&3: 10 to < 2OWp (US$40); 20 to 4OWp (US$70);
Years 4&5: 10 to 2OWp (US$40).
- 106-



_Luimted to one subgrant per household and per systemr
25. Trigger for Release of  Cif-grid village based systems:
Grant Cofinancing        Certification by a Chartered Engineer that system is complete, complies with
specifications and is operational.
Off-grid household based solar:
P.-esentation of detailed schedules in read-only soft copy format of REREDP compliant
S]HS installed along with grant disbursement request. The solar company will also
fcrward to AU a declaration confinning that the schedules exactly match the
information given in the Customer Acceptance Receipts (CARs) and that the original
CARs will be available for inspection by authorized personnel.
Household based wind:
Plesentation of Acceptance Receipt(s) evidencing installation and confirnation of
eligibility.
26. Grant Cofinancing       Qae year, beginning on the date of subloan approval (and annual anniversary dates if
Reservation Period after  applicable).
Commitment
27. Project Preparation Grant  Up to 95 percent of Preparation Costs subject to a maximum of UJS$ 6,000 plus, in the
Amount                   case of village based systems, an incentive of up to US$ 2000 for demonstrated success
in achieving economic benefit targets agreed to between the consultant and AU during
sub-project preparation.
28. Preparation Grant Eligible  Fees of an independent consultant directly attributable to subproject preparation. Only
Expenses                 expenses incurred after April 30, 2002 would be eligible. Each subproject developer
would be eligible for only one grant.
29. Trigger for Project     Ojf-grid, non-solar subprojects:
Preparation Grant Release  o On presentation of eligible expenses and submission of grant disbursement request:
(i) 50 percent of grant amount (subject to a maximum of USS 3000) will be
released on approval of subloan by PCI or any other lending institution acceptable
to AU; (ii) 35 percent of grant amount (subject to a maximum of US$ 2000) will
be released on first disbursement of subloan; and (iii) 15 percent (subject to a
maximum of US$ 1000) will be released six months after date of installation
certification of subproject.
* In addition, the incentive payment of up to US$ 2000 will be released against an
independent verification that confirms that the economic benefits as per agreed
project outcomes indicated by the consultant and confirmed in appraisal report
have been created. This incentive has to be claimed within 12 months of
installation verification.
30. Renewable Energy         0 Stakeholder will prepare TOR as needed in consultation with AU, stakeholder
Technical Assistance: where  groups and IDA. A TOR will be endorsed by at least five key stakeholders
the industry as a whole is  acceptable to AU/IDA, or ratified by a recognized industry association. AU will
the beneficiary             contract consultants and oversee the technical assistance efforts. Payments to be
based on agreed deliverables.
* The AU will approve the activities up to US$100,000. Applications for more than
_  US$100,000 need a no-objection from IDA.
31. Renewable Energy         * Stakeholder will prepare TOR. The AU - with support of independent technical
Technical Assistance: where  expertise if required - will approve the activities up to US$ 100,000. Applications
an organization is the      for more than US$100,000 need a no-objection from IDA. AIJ will contract
- 107 -



primary beneficiary          consultants and oversee technical assistance efforts.
* Activities will be cost-shared with a substantial portion (not less than 25 percent)
bome by the stakeholder. Payments to be based on agreed deliverables.
32. Off-Grid Project        US$ 1,000 per subproject only for off-grid village based sub-projects.
Supervision Fee to PCIs
33. Trigger for Release of  Certification by a Chartered Engineer that system is complete, complies with
Off-Grid Project         specifications, and is operational.
Supervision Fee
34. Off-Grid Project        Subloan refinance application received by the AU after 30 April 2002 and up to six
Supervision Fee Eligibility  months prior to date of Project close.
Period
35. Verification of village based  * AU will prepare TORs (in consultation with IDA) for design verification,
and household based         installation verification and spot checks to ensure installation compliance
systems                    * AU will maintain a list of qualified consultants for above and release grant funds
for PCI to contract consultants
* AU will follow-up on design and installation irregularities and seek remedial
action. If the remedial action is unsuccessful and suspension from the Credit
Program is required, the AU will notify all PCIs.
* AU will verify SHS data furnished by solar companies for completeness, technical
compliance and duplication before releasing cofinancing grant.
36. Off-grid Consumer Protection AU will prepare TOR for Consumer Education and Protection Facility (in consultation
Facility                    with IDA). GEF grant will cover the costs of maintaining and publicizing the facility,
which will investigate consumer complaints and seek appropriate solutions.
37. GoSL provisions       PCIs to ensure that the terms and conditions of subloans provide for (i) GOSL and
IDA to inspect Investment Projects including goods, works, sites and construction.
This includes inspection of both physical assets and relevant documentation; (ii)
GOSL to suspend or terninate access by the Investnent Enterprise to the Credit Line,
Subgrants, Preparation grants and/or Technical Assistance for failing to comply with
the Operating Guidelines.
Part 2.       Eligibility Criteria for Participating Credit Institutions
Participating credit institutions (PCIs) shall satisfy the criteria given in section (A) below, as well as those
identified for specific classes of institutions as applicable.
A.     For all Participating Credit Institutions
In order to become eligible to participate in the Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
(RERED) Credit Program and to maintain their eligibility, credit institutions must be privately owned and
controlled, and meet the following criteria:
(a)    The International Development-Association (IDA) should receive a satisfactory statement approved
by the Board of Directors of the institutions outlining:
*      A proposal as to how they would plan to utilize the credit facility, how they would get
internally organized to market the RERED scheme, evaluate the subproject proposals and
manage subsequent follow-up monitoring and loan recoveries
*      Name of the senior officer who will be in charge of RERED credit operation and key team
- 108-



staff;
*      Lending institutions which are not PCIs under the Energy Services Delivery (ESD) Project
should submit the institution's business strategy and operating policies, and
*      Details of their existing term lending programs and portfolio management scheme, if any.
(b)    Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, a profitable operation for at least two full years of operation
preceding its application for participation, attested to by unqualified audit reports from independent
private auditors acceptable to IDA.
(c)    A majority of the share capital of the PCI should be held by private sector
(d)    The PCI should furnish to IDA, a certificate from the external auditors within 90 days of the date
of audited financial statement, that the financial performance of the PCI concerned is in
conformity with the applicable financial criteria outlined below. The PCI shall physically forward
this certificate to the World Bank's office in Colombo who will receive it on behalf of IDA.
(e)    After fulfilling the eligibility criteria, the PCI shall continue to meet the eligibility criteria
aforementioned to the satisfaction of GOSL and IDA, which will monitor the PCI's compliance
therewith semiannually. If the PCI fails at any time to satisfy the above specified criteria the
GOSL and IDA reserve the right to suspend subloan authorizations under the RERED Project
until the PCI has taken specific steps to address its problems in a manner acceptable to GOSL and
IDA.
B.     For Commercial Batiks and Licensed Specialized Banks
Compliance with Ministry of Finance and Planning/Central Bank of Sri Lanka guidelines on prudential
regulations, capital adequacy, classification of risk assets, provisioning, single borrower exposure limit,
sector exposure limits, and disclosure and reporting requirements.
A confirmation from external auditors acceptable to IDA that, at the date of its application for participation
and subsequently at the end of its financial year, the credit institution met the following financial criteria,
ratio requirements and exposure limits calculated in accordance with IDA standard guidelines:
(a)    A minimumn total cash collection ratio of principal and interest of 80 percent on term loan portfolio
calculated on a rolling twelve-month basis;
(b)    A minimum total cash collection ratio of principal only of 80 percent on term loan portfolio
calculated on a rolling twelve-month basis;
(c)    A minimum after tax profit equivalent to 9 percent p.a. on average shareholders' funds;
(d)    A minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25 times (only for Licensed Specialized Banks and similar
institutions);
(e)    A maximum portfolio infection rate of 20 percent;
(f)    A maximum debt equity:ratio of 8: 1;
(g)    Compliance with minimum capital adequacy ratios for tier-l and tier-2 as required by prevailing
Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) guidelines;
(h)    Credit exposure (loans and leases) to one party or any one group of companies must not exceed 30
percent of the PCI's total capital funds (shareholders' funds);
(i)    Credit exposure (loans and leases) to any one sector, as defined in the UN Standard Classification
of Economic Activities, nmust not exceed 30 percent of PCrs total credit portfolio.
- 109-



C.     For Merchant Banks and Leasing Companies
A confirmation from external auditors 4cceptable to IDA that, at the date of its application for participation
and subsequently at the end of its financial year, the credit institution met the following financial criteria,
ratio requirements and exposure limits calculated in accordance with IMA standard guidelines:
(a)    A minimum total cash collection ratio of principal and interest of 80 percent on the lease and loan
portfolio calculated on a rolling twelve month basis;
(b)    The value of non-perfonming leases and loans less cumulative provisions shall not at any time
exceed 30 percent of the shareholders' funds of the company;
(c)    A minimum after. tax profit equivalent to 9 percent p.a. on average shareholders' funds;
(d)    A maximum debt equity ratio of 8: l;
(e)    Compliance with the minimurn risk weighted capital adequacy ratio in accordance with measures
prescribed by the Central Bank of Sri Lanka or the Basle Commnittee on banking supervisory
practices appointed by the Bank of International Settlements (BIS);
(f)    Credit exposure (leases and loans) to any one party or to any one group of companies
should not exceed:
*      15 percent of the PCI's total lease rentals receivable, and
*      25 percent of the shareholders' funds.
(g)    Credit exposure (leases and loans) to any one sector, as defined in the UN Standard Classification
of Economic Activities, must not exceed 30 percent of the PCI's total credit portfolio;
(h)    Lease receivables at fixed interest rates which are financed by loans at variable interest rates shall
not at any time exceed 50 percent of the shareholders' funds;
Compliance with pertinent laws and regulations regarding capital adequacy, classification of assets,
non-accrual of interest and provisioning, exposure limits, etc.
In the absence of relevant regulatory framework, merchant banks or leasing companies that wish to
participate in the Credit Program should adopt and comply with their own financial policies acceptable to
IDA, which might be tighter than the eligibility requirements listed in paragraph (4) above. A confirmation
from external auditors acceptable to IDA that, at the date of its application for participation and
subsequently at the end of its each financial year, the credit institution is in full compliance with its own
financial policies. Any changes in financial policies of these institutions would be subject to prior review
and approval by IDA.
D.     For Micro Finance Institutions
A confirmation from external auditors acceptable to IDA that, at the date of its application for participation
and subsequently at the end of its each financial year, the micro finance institution met the following
financial criteria, ratio requirements and exposure limits calculated in accordance with IDA standard
guidelines:
(a)    Minimum loan collection ratio of 92 percent
(b)    At least 10,000 borrowers with strong expansion potential
(c)    At least RslOO million in Accumulated Fund (including foreign grants)
(d)    Maximum debt/accumulated fund ratio of 3.5 times
(e)    Minimum liquidity ratio (liquid assets to deposits) of 20 percent
- 110-



(f)    Minimum current ratio of 1.5 times
(g)    Minimum capital adequacy ratio of 20 percent
(h)    Minimum debt service cover ratio of 1.25 times
(i)    Minimum rate of return on capital of 12 percent
Five-year successful track record, substantiated by written confirmation by extemal auditors acceptable to
IDA of running a successful micro-credit program.
In the absence of relevant regulatory framework, micro finance institutions that wish to participate in the
Credit Program should adopt and comply with their own financial policies acceptable to IDA, which might
be tighter than the eligibility requirements listed in paragraph (4) above. A confirmation from extemal
auditors acceptable to IDA that, at the date of its application for participation and subsequently at the end
of its each financial year, the credit institution is in full compliance with its own financial policies. Any
changes in financial policies of these institutions would be subject to prior review and approvad by IDA.
- 111 -



Additional Annex 13: Summary of ESD Project Achievements and Remaining Barriers
SRI LANKA: Renewable Energy for Rural Economic Development
Renewable Energy             Achievements                    Remaining Barriers
Technology
Solar               SHS technology well accepted and  Economies of scale to sustain business not
established.                      achieved.
4-5 commercial suppliers with a   Development has not progressed to non-SHS
network of over 50 sales and service  applications/productive uses.
centers
Global technical and service quality  Outreach and awareness building for poorer
standards in place                households and for other applications are
lacking
Microfinance and private sector
partnership model for market      Limited microfinance players and also
development and financing;        limited availability to SHS.
commercial banks involved.
Only a few provincial governments have
Over 500 technicians and sales    adopted the solar program, and even there, it
professional trained              has not been integrated into rural
development strategy
Adoption of Solar programs by
vanguard provincial governments
Village Hydro       Community based projects have     The business model still requires grant
(off-grid)          evolved to the point where total grant  funding.
dependence has been eliminated.
The issues of stranded investments not
Capacity built in private sector to  addressed and legal/policy status of village
identify, develop and implement such  hydro is unclear.
projects through communities.
Daytime productive use of electricity from
8-10 capable players now involved in  such projects not realized.
developing these projects, and actively
sharing know-how.
Potential village hydro resource study
available
Commercial banks are financing such
projects
Mini-Hydro          Substantial capacity built for feasibility  Need to ensure that mini-hydro is
study, design, construction, operation,  appropriately incorporated into restructured
maintenance, and financing of     power sector
mini-hydro investments.
Long-term financing still a constraint
Small Power Purchase Agreement    Transparent pricing mechanism needed for
provides effective legal basis for  SPPA.
electricity sale to CEB.
- 112 -



Wind                 Technical and economic feasibility of  High costs of wind energy pose problems for
projects established.               widespread applications.
Interconnection issues resolved.   Framework for commercial development of
wind projects not available. Incremental
Capacity now exists within the utility  costs and power pricing for grid sales not
and the indigenous engineering      established.
induslry to oversee construction and
operation of such projects.         Limnited private sector players and capacity
in Sri Lanka.
Private sector interest in wind projects
becoming evident.                   Constrained availability of long term finance
and limited appetite among lenders.
Resource assessment completed
(through GEF support, via UNDP)
Biomass              Biomass widely used for domestic and  While technical feasibility of biomass
commercial applications, but was not  gasification has been established in other
addressed under ESDP. However,      countries of the region, Sri Lanka has little
indigenous entrepreneurs have       experience and limited capacity/skills to
propo:ed biomass gasification projects  develop such projects.
and there is interest and limited
capacity to develop this resource.  Grid and off-grid markets assessments not
available.
Commercial awareness among private sector
and financial institutions is limited.
Capacity building in  Concept has been accepted and     Limited adoption of energy efficient
utility for energy   mainsireamed within utility        practices by commercial builders and
efficiency,DSM and                                      industries
renewables           Capacity to design and execute DSM
programs in place                   Limited ESCO development.
Energy efficient building codes     Lack of framework for power purchase from
developed and in use.               wind and biomass projects.
Partial Private Sector Energy Service  Limited expertise and capacity in private
CompEny established                 sector to implement energy efficiency
projects.
Framewvork for power purchase from
grid-connected small hydros in place  Uncertain future of DSM under reforms
scenario and independent regulation.
Training and awareness generation
programs for renewables within utility
staff
- 113-






IBRD 3923
W                               010                             828
FFNA                                   SRI LANKA
0  TOWNS
,DlSMC TAtS
/  PROVINC CAPITALS
Kdloo&\ ,,                        *  NASl4AL CAtAL
Kill CKILCHCHI         So ,             _MAJNROADS
.   {     i         t  ~~~~~~  ~    ~    ~~~~MA*lo  - PROVINCE SOUNDARES
MILoaIH E R N                   -  DISCT BOUNaIDAES
_ _ _---_-_-_I- _ _          -                  - - DMSIN NDARIES
/18w  f kp R 0  ,t - E.,  \           NOTES , oD wr-d DM,ro Non-.-
C \M,     PR C      
944NNAR    VAVU IYA f    -
M-uANNAR  -   |       I-' 
\> / /            0  9  O  10  20  30  O  iD
I  I   \_  J{MEDAST CHCIYl T  >Efl,rC O   fiAO  )   -  I  I  I  J
/                 O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KLOMETERS
0,AA 009&OCHCOICO\      \  \    E   J   W nl
A,  AAt-W-  A  DHAPURA H 
I  ' &u\t  N  - T R   A   L
-j3  :  Jr TLCPD p ROP V I N Cot
I~~~~ \pood                   / rALWM 
|  / I GAS?SW \91  I            IUU HY; C OA A  )  _)  //  
Te90       t         |o      \        ;~POLONNARUWA                     9.
-r   \  ) \<  ~    ~/         t o S    \7'   P 0 0 9 u9    X
I ) O R T H                              * EyOEASTERN
\  \        A      X       ,, / 7     O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rondooni.or
\  W E S t\tR N  \4  \  =          _   LBATTICALO
P R O V IN                                  PR VIN E
CENTRAL     rdonolofl  J
P RtClbtBOf C Er 1-K o P 1VC
ARM~~~~~~~*              Q GA    A7
\\MERN 5                           RO VI C8  E WILADW
\\PROVINCEP \           NCE
901, n Thh  -p  p ro.o.d by H  A.p D.gn UL,, of 0. Word fln-
80.  d. So Aodpo,dTolon ho .  w.4f  kk G,o o
nn, . fo . h 07rd,099
JUNE 2000






IMAGING
Report No.:        23886  CE
Type:.    PAD



