Report No. PID11206
Project Name             Sri Lanka-Supplemental Project to the Renewable Energy for Rural
Economic Development
Region                   South Asia Regional Office
Sector                   Other Power & Energy Conversion
Project ID               LKGE77761
Borrower(s)              GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Implementing Agency
GOVERNMENT OF SRI LANKA
Ministry of Finance
Address: Treasury Building, Colombo 01,
Sri Lanka
Contact Person: Mr. Faiz Mohideen,
Director General, Department of
External Resources
Tel: 94-1 434-876
Fax: 94-1 447-633
Environment Category     F
Date PID Prepared        May 10, 2002
Auth Appr/Negs Date      January 20, 2002
Bank Approval Date       June 20, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
The Electricity Sector The Government of Sri Lanka places high priority on
rural electrification. It envisions rapid expansion of electricity access
to enhance rural economic and social development. While good progress has
been made in connecting villages by conventional grid extension, the
success of the ongoing Bank-GEF financed ESD Project has demonstrated that
off-grid systems - such as solar home systems and community-level
independent grids - are frequently better suited to provide electricity
services to remote, rural communities in a timely and economic manner.
Thus, the likelihood of attaining Sri Lanka's vision of 75 percent
electrification by 2007 will be increased by a rural electrification
strategy that used both main grid and off-grid systems. Further, even for
the main grid, Sri Lanka is in a position to add significant generation
capacity in a least-cost manner through grid-connected hydro, wind, and
biomass projects developed and financed by the private sector. In order to
be in a position to attract needed investment in generation, transmission
and distribution over the next five years and facilitate the proliferation
of rural energy systems to meet electrification goals, Sri Lanka's new
Government has articulated a two pronged strategy: (i) creation of
investor confidence by restructuring the electricity industry along
commercial lines and establishing appropriate regulation critical to
secure the scale of investments required; and (ii) establishment of a
coherent and credible rural electrification and renewable energy policy to
promote sustainable market-based provision of rural energy services and
reduce the need for larger grid investments.Restructuring the Electricity
Sector Status: The sector has two utilities; the Ceylon Electricity Board
(CEB) is the main, vertically integrated utility and a smaller,



Colombo-based distribution company, the Lanka Electricity Company (LECO).
These institutions have functioned reasonably well in the past and compare
favorably with other similarly structured utilities in the region. A
large part of the country's generation capacity (nearly 70 percent) is low
cost hydro, and the island has well-developed transmission and
distribution networks. The operational parameters of the utilities, such
as system losses of about 20 percent, appear reasonable by South Asian
standards, but need improvement. Despite these strengths, the sector
currently faces acute power shortages and a serious financial crisis.
There is an overall unfavorable view of the sector's management given that
there are significant power cuts, and electricity prices are perceived to
be high in relation to the poor service. Inattention to upgrading thermal
capacity to match demand and indifferent tariff actions are responsible
for the current state of affairs. There is a perception that these
problems are creating critical impediments to the country's development.
Under the changed political circumstances in Sri Lanka, the Government is
moving ahead to address the shorter term crises, as well as the longer
term issue of reforms. A high-powered Energy Supply Committee (ESC) has
been established under special legislation to resolve the sector's
immediate problems and play the role of an interim reform, regulation,
policy planning and implementation body. Chaired by the Secretary,
Treasury, the ESC has commenced interventions to arrest the sector's
decline. Emergency power is being contracted and tariffs have been
increased. Actions to speed up institutional and regulatory reform are
underway. Strategy: The Government acknowledges that sector reforms would
bring high economic gains, and considers these critical to the sector's
revival. A reform process has been initiated. The strategy is to
restructure the sector along the lines of a modern, commercial electricity
industry with competition and private investment in generation and
distribution, providing a confidence-building regulation mechanism and
facilitating private sector investment. There is a recognition that this
is a politically difficult process, but high-level policy makers and
political leaders appear committed to implement the process quickly. The
World Bank, ADB and other donors are supporting the Government in this
effort. Rural Electricity Access and Economic Development Status: Sri
Lanka has successfully promoted energy efficiency and renewable energy
development under the ongoing Bank-GEF financed ESD Project (scheduled
closing date December 2002). All indications are that the ESD Project
will meet or exceed targets for rural access through Solar Home Systems
and other renewables. While the foundations have been laid for
sustainable growth of the renewable energy industry in Sri Lanka, certain
critical barriers still need to be addressed.    The main issues are: n
Renewable energy needs to find formal place in the country's overall
electrification policies and strategies. n Market size needs to be
increased to reap further economies of scale, target poor households and
serve productive and service sectors.n Ensuring level-playing field for
electricity provision by private sector and utility operators in terms of
market entry, pricing and financing.n Expanding participants and
stakeholders, as well as capacity building initiatives to achieve greater
outreach and proliferation of renewable energy technologies/applications.n
Integrating renewable energy into Government's policy and strategy,
including those for rural development, reforms and decentralized
governance.n Enhancing quantum and quality of micro-financing for
renewables such as Solar Home Systems through participation of more
financial institutions and expansion of long term credit liquidity
- 2-



sources.n Establishing a sustainable and transparent basis for subsidies
for rural electrification, with an appropriate exit policy. In addition
to the above general barriers, there are certain specific barriers in the
respective components - solar, hydro, wind and biomass energy
segments.Strategy: Presently, renewable energy and its importance to
rural access do not find formal acknowledgement in Government's
development strategy. In order to promote rural electrification in general
and renewables in particular, the Government has prepared a Rural
Electrification Policy and is in the process declared its intent to
announce this formally by June 20, 2002. The policy would enable
harmonious growth of grid and non-grid electrification based on rational
economic principles. Both modes of electricity provision are needed to
accelerate economic development opportunities for rural households. The
salient features of the proposed policy are summarized in the following
box.Reform related issues relevant to Rural Electrification: Some of the
key legal and regulatory issues relevant to Rural Electrification are to
be given effect through the new power sector reform legislation and
regulations, which are now under preparation. The current status is that
a draft electricity reforms act is under Cabinet's consideration and is
expected to come up for legislative action by June 2002. These issues
are:n electricity pricing for grid-connected renewables to be placed under
the purview of the regulator;n exemptions from licensing to be provided
for small generation and distribution systems or mini-grids, whilst
retaining a 'light handed' regime for ensuring appropriate technical and
safety standards. Establishment of mini-grids in rural areas that can
produce and distribute electricity on a smaller scale and allowing
mini-grids to buy and distribute bulk power from the network and/or sell
to distribution points by accessing the grid. These measures would help
reduce the need for large investments in generation and distribution.
This will also be consistent with extending access to more people in rural
areas and promoting renewable energy; andn enabling third party sales (via
wheeling of power through the network where necessary for smaller systems)
subject to some regulatory restrictions.
2. Objectives
This project's objectives are to: (i) Improve the rural quality of life by
providing electricity access to remote communities through off-grid
renewable energy technologies; and (ii) Promote private sector power
generation for the main grid from renewable energy resources. These
objectives are consistent with Sri Lanka's vision of extending electricity
access to at least 75 percent of its population by 2007, and developing
initiatives for productive use of electricity to increase rural household
incomes and improve the delivery of rural social services, such as health
and education. Consistent with the opening up of the Northern and Eastern
parts of the country following recent peace initiatives, the project will
enable Government to extend electricity access to conflict-affected people
living in those regions. The project concept and design recognizes and
responds to Sri Lanka's desire to preserve its unique ecology and
bio-diversity. The project will significantly contribute to Government
initiatives aimed at reforming Sri Lanka's struggling power sector.
First, it promotes greater private sector investment and participation in
generation and distribution of electricity, with an emphasis on use of
renewable resources. Second, it facilitates the growth of a vibrant
energy industry based on commercial principles and transparent rules.
Third, it helps Government integrate renewable energy into the overall
- 3 -



national energy policy and the country's decentralized governance
framework. Fourth, through its emphasis on rural electrification, and its
linkage with economic growth and social well-being, as well as the new
rural electrification policy proposed by the Government, the project
strengthens "voice" of rural communities and stakeholders in the sector
development agenda. Finally, the project will for the first time enable
Sri Lanka to trade 'carbon emission reduction credits' in the global
market that is now emerging under the auspices of the Clean Development
Mechanism (CDM).
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank is recognized and accepted in Sri Lanka as a key catalyst, in
partnership with other donors such as UNDP, for renewable energy
development and energy efficiency. The key value-added stems from the
Bank's ability to promote a policy framework that can facilitate both grid
and off-grid solutions. With respect to the former, the Bank's involvement
will help Government establish a competitive and efficient sector that can
attract and sustain private investment in all segments of the business.
With respect to the latter, the Bank's involvement will help promote
appropriate policy and implementation regime for renewables, integrating
initiatives by the private sector and community based organizations in
delivering access to the rural poor and increasing productive use of
electricity. Further, it is recognized that the Bank brings to bear a
vast repertoire of world-wide knowledge and practical experience, based on
related projects being undertaken in Asian, as well as African and Latin
American countries. In other words, the Bank is able to bring to and adapt
for Sri Lanka, established international best practice as well as emerging
concepts that are being developed in the context of other countries. In
particular, the RERED project team brings together professionals with a
range of expertise and experience with renewable energy projects in
Uganda, Cambodia, Indonesia, Bangladesh, South Africa, Argentina, and
India, besides Sri Lanka.
4. Description
The project will support provision of electricity and socio-economic
improvements in rural areas through: (i) grid-connected and off-grid
hydro, wind and biomass renewable energy technologies; (ii) financing and
grant mechanisms for solar home systems and other solar energy
applications in rural areas through private companies, NGOs and MFIs;
(iii) technical assistance for income generation and social service
delivery improvements based on access of villages to electricity; and (v)
technical assistance for promotion of energy efficiency, development of
carbon trading mechanisms and integration of renewables into government
policy, provincial council development strategies and sector reform
initiatives.The key components of the project are:(a) Grid-Connected
Renewable Energy Power Generation. This component will enable
continuation on a larger scale of the refinancing support for mini-hydro
projects provided under the ESD Project, as well as extend support to two
other commercially available renewable energy sources - wind and biomass.
As a result, grid-connected small-scale renewable energy will provide more
than 5 percent of all of Sri Lanka's main grid capacity, a figure that
would be higher than for most other countries. All grid connected
renewables will come under the purview of standardized small power
agreements and tariff developed under ESD. However, the existing
agreement may need some changes in order to accommodate wind and biomass
- 4 -



and this will be addressed during project implementation. Mini Hydro
Projects: A pipeline of eight projects, totaling 39 MW, is in an advanced
stage of development. It is conservatively estimated that an additional
20-25 MW of hydro projects could come under the credit program during the
second half of the RERED Project. With the experience gained so far, the
risks are better understood, and banks are willing to explore other local
long term financing sources to supplement the refinance and long term
lending needs. Wind Projects: After the successful implementation of a
CEB 3MW pilot wind farm under the ESD project, regional wind resource
measurements supported by UNDP/GEF and specific evaluations of sites by a
commercial company, there is now adequate information in Sri Lanka for the
private sector to develop and implement these projects. The RERED project
will support commercialization and up-scaling of wind development
including exploring the possibility of off-shore development. The
newly-opened areas of the North and East have high potential for wind
projects. The project will support technical assistance for business
development, feasibility studies, and off-shore resource assessment. It
will also provide long term financing for project developers. A private
sector developed wind-farm of 22.5 MW is in an advanced stage of
development and is being also considered for Carbon Trade Financing
opportunities. Biomass: Ad-hoc and small biomass (research) projects have
provided limited experience with grid connected biomass projects. The
project will support the market initiation of viable grid connected
biomass projects and will focus initially on two areas: small scale
co-generation/gasification projects in the coconut and tea-industry, and
larger scale dendro projects with potential biomass plantations.
Technical assistance will be provided for business development,
feasibility studies, and regional trade shows, as well as longer term
financing for the developers through the Participating Credit
Institutions. Additional support for pilot biomass gasification
investments will be needed. This will be determined and implemented
during the life of the project. The project takes a conservative approach
to biomass energy development. Subprojects anticipated are one 8 MW
project (coconut based) and about 4-5 smaller biomass in the range of MW
in the range of 1-2 MW based on wood waste (from saw mills) and/or new
plantations.(b) Solar PV Investments. Sri Lanka currently has a good
foundation for the solar home system market to expand and gain commercial
viability. This component will provide support to enable the market to
become fully commercial through credit and grant support for solar PV
investments for household, commercial, and institutional use. In
particular, the project will provide refinance, grant, and TA support to
seek to solidify the existing middle-range solar home system market and
expand service to other applications such as: (i) smaller systems
accessible to a poor households; (ii) community applications for health
clinics, schools, street lighting, etc.; and (iii) commercial systems for
water pumping, telecom, and other applications. In this way, the project
will both build economies of scale to solidify the market and increase
outreach and awareness building for poor families. Further capacity
building in respect of micro-finance institutions and other household
financing organizations serving limited communities is also necessary to
expand credit access for remote communities. The indicative targets are
85,000 household systems - a target higher than in any other Bank-GEF (or
any other agency) in the South Asia region.(c) Independent Grid Systems.
This component would again build on experience through ESD and other
donor-funded activities, and would support further commercialization of
- 5-



village hydro and other community-based independent grid systems through:
(i) refinancing and grant support for investments; (ii) project
preparation support; and (iii) TA to address such issues as: (a) use of
electricity in daytime - when there is little household demand - for
income generation activities; and (b) stranded cost. The status of
independent grids within the sector reform agenda also will be emphasized
in the broader sector technical assistance. The indicative target is
access for 15,000 new households through independent grids - village
hydros, as well as projects based on biomass and other technologies, if
feasible.(d)  Energy Efficiency and Demand Side Management (DSM). The
project intends to provide technical assistance for further development of
energy efficiency service delivery in the private sector and development
of a framework for sustainable implementation of energy efficiency
programs under a reforms scenario. It is envisioned that responsibility
of policy and regulatory issues related to DSM, as well as the
implementation of public policy type DSM programs will rest with the
government, regulator, or utility, while private sector enterprises such
as Energy Service Companies (ESCOs) will implement commercially viable
energy efficiency projects.     (e)  Cross-sectoral Energy Applications.
This component would help rural communities to realize the direct and
indirect economic benefits of electrification. For rural enterprises, the
project would provide credit support for larger systems. For service
institutions, technical assistance will be provided for development of
energy and standardized energy packages, awareness creation, etc to
integrate energy provision into improved service delivery. In addition,
cofinancing support will be provided for investments in selected areas.
Commercial/institutional support will include TA aimed at mainstreaming
productive applications in off-grid systems. The Project seeks to connect
at least 1,000 institutional/commercial systems. These type of
interventions are critically important in restoring economic development
in the country's northern and eastern areas.(f) Technical Assistance. In
addition to the component-specific technical assistance described above,
technical assistance under the Project is being envisaged for the
following categories:n Project administration/promotion;n Subproject
promotion/development support;ft Technology/market
introduction/promotion/capacity building related to renewable energy and
energy efficiency;n Cross-sectoral energy applications;n Sustainability;
andfn Monitoring and Evaluation Project Costs and Financing
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER/RECIPIENT $0.80
IBRD
IDA $75.00
BORROWING COUNTRY'S FIN. INTERMEDIARY/IES $17.90
SUB-BORROWER(S) $25.80
FOREIGN PRIVATE COMMERCIAL SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED) $6.20
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY $8.00
Total Project Cost $133.70
6. Implementation
Implementation period. The project will be implemented over a five-year
period (FY2003 to FY2008)Executing agencies: Ministry of Finance and
Planning Project coordination: Project implementation for all the
components will be through one common agency, the Administrative Unit (AU)
- 6 -



in the DFCC Bank - which is well staffed and professionally managed under
the leadership of a Senior Vice President of the DFCC Bank. The unit has
established an excellent track record in project implementation and earned
the respect of all stakeholders. Institutions such as the Solar
Industries Association, the Grid Connected Small Power Developers
Association, the Provincial Council Governments, SEEDS and other
Participating Credit Institutions and a number of NGO, non-profit and
for-profit renewable energy firms and advisers are expected to participate
in project implementation. The AU would be responsible for: (i)
administration of the Credit Program and the GEF grants; (ii) guiding the
cross-sectoral activities, and (iii) technical assistance. The technical
assistance intended for other project entities such as the CEB,
cross-sectoral ministries, and the various industry associations will be
administered by the AU, but the task of supervising the work and reporting
will be that of the concerned recipient institution. Detailed operating
policy guidelines and proposed on-lending arrangements for the ESD Credit
Program are in place and have been demonstrated to work well with adequate
safeguards for accountability purposes. These have been enhanced and
strengthened as necessary. These guidelines define the on-lending
mechanism, including the onlending rate, the terms and conditions, the
responsibility of the Administrative Unit, procurement procedures,
disbursement procedures, and audit requirements. Eligibility criteria for
PCIs, including commercial banks, development finance institutions (DFIs),
merchant banks, and leasing companies have been reviewed and made more
appropriate to the enhanced scope of onlending and energy applications.The
AU would administer GEF grant funds to: (i) support off-grid subproject
preparation activities; (ii) cofinance off-grid subprojects; and (iii)
provide off-grid project support through promotional activities, provision
of grant funding for verification of solar home systems, biomass and wind
energy projects and consumer education and protection.Project oversight
(policy guidance, etc.): Policy guidance for the incorporation of
renewable energy and energy efficiency into the power sector reform
process will be provided through the Ministry of Power and Energy.
Accounting, Financial Reporting and Auditing arrangements: Project
administration will be carried out by the AU, which also has a
significantly enlarged role compared to the ongoing ESD project because of
the increased scope of the proposed project. Actual implementation will be
carried out by the PCIs/MFIs and project beneficiaries. The financial
management assessment did not cover the PCIs/MFIs, since there are other
existing arrangements in place to assess the them. The SASFP unit carries
out annual assessments of PCIs/MFIs compliance with the eligibility
criteria. Further, the Banking Supervision Department of the Central Bank
of Sri Lanka closely reviews the financial soundness of the PCIs. Project
accounts will be audited by external auditors and the audit reports will
be submitted to the Bank within 6 months of the end of fiscal year. The
auditor will be appointed by November 30, 2002. Audit reports of the
ongoing ESD project have been satisfactory. Audit reports were received on
a timely basis and did not carry any major audit observations. Cost of
external audit will be financed by the project.Funds Flow: Project will
be budgeted for in the national budget of the GOSL. Counterpart funds are
to be provided by the PCIs and MFIs for the first three components and
GOSL for the technical assistance components. Two special dollar accounts
(SDAs) will be opened at the Central Bank of Sri Lanka to deposit the
proceeds of IDA credit and GEF grant. AU will have the right to operate
the SDAs and withdraw funds for reimbursement to the PCIs and MFIs. PCIs
-7 -



will be responsible for approving the loans to ultimate project
beneficiaries following their own loan screening procedure. Once the loan
has been approved, PCIs will forward a Loan Refinance Application form to
the AU requesting commitment for a maximum of 80 percent of the approved
loan amount. As and when the PCI disburses funds against the approved loan
amount, a disbursement request form will be forwarded by the PCI (with
appropriate supporting documents) to the AU for obtaining 80 percent of
the amount disbursed to the beneficiary. Specific funds flow arrangements
for each component and further details on the required supporting
documentation for reimbursements are given in the Operations Manual and
Operating Guidelines.
7. Sustainability
n Grid-connected renewable energy power generation. The 2002 tariff
announcements under the SPPA framework represent a major breakthrough for
renewable energy development. These features are: (i) inclusion of a floor
price so that the developer is guaranteed to receive 90 percent of the
first year's tariff during the contract's lifetime; (ii) the short-term
volatility of the market is addressed in the current tariff regime by
providing for a tariff which is an average of the past three-year annual
tariffs. Further, the project will include TA to the regulator to ensure
that the future tariff regime provides appropriate incentives and security
for economically viable grid-connected investments. The availability of
long-term financing to the developers is key to sustainability. The
project will support PCIs to tap local sources of long-term financing. n
Off-grid village hydro systems. The experience shows that the system of
village ownership and operation is working well so far in Sri Lanka, which
implies sustainable operations of these systems. At the same time, it
will be necessary to closely monitor their functioning to detect any
problems that may arise, and take timely corrective action. The financial
sustainability of the supported systems arises from the fact that
operational costs are relatively low and can be covered from revenues,
once capital costs and largely the development costs have been partly
subsidized with GEF funds. While the need for GEF capital cost subsidies
for additional schemes is expected to decline over time, it is unlikely
that the need for capital cost subsidies for future schemes will be
eliminated at the end of the project. The emphasis on productive uses is
expected to help boost financial sustainability even as the GEF grant
declines. At the same time, other sources of targeted subsidies will be
needed. The latter could for example come from provincial councils or a
Government supported rural electrification funding mechanism. Another
issue in relation to the sustainability of village hydros is that of
stranded assets, in case grid is extended to an area served by village
hydro systems. In order to address this issue, the Government is
considering use of a separate set of distribution system and
interconnection standards for small size rural systems so that village
hydros can be interconnected to the gird. n Solar PV systems. At
present, three large companies have made significant investments (more
than US$ 1.0 million each) developing their distribution networks - an
achievement seen in few other Bank client countries. A fourth company has
not made significant investments yet, and is still considering its
options. Also, credit for solar system purchases to the end-user has
become available through one of the largest Micro Finance Institutions
(SEEDS). Together, this lays the foundations for sustainable development,
but there still remains a need for GEF subsidies - at a lower scale than
- 8 -



in the ESD project - in order for these companies to develop and grow into
commercially viable ventures. It is recognized that it is essential to
have an exit policy for GEF from the solar PV market development; at the
same time, it is also clear that the private sector, particularly foreign
companies whose perception of local risks may be high, would prefer
continuation of GEF support beyond this project. An exit policy for GEF
funding for solar home systems is to be developed in consultation with the
stakeholders in the course of project preparation. While complete
phase-out of grants for SHS during the project's lifetime is expected,
grant support for second-generation uses - for productive purposes and
delivery of services - may need to continue. Also, two risk mitigation
measures against GEF dependence are adopted in the SHS co-financing
scheme: (i) if the total industry revenue for smaller systems (10 to 19
Wp) accounts for more than 30 percent of the total SHS industry revenue
the US$ 40/unit will be reduced to US$ 20/unit; and (ii) if for any
product range a company gains more than 85 percent of the total market the
company will not receive any more co-financing grants from GEF. n
Cross-sectoral Energy Applications. Given the lack of precedent and
experience with cross-sectoral links, sustainability will require close
monitoring, and some adjustments may have to be made during the course of
implementation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Project takes into account a rich menu of knowledge acquired from
similar projects and reviews. These include the Sri Lanka Energy Services
Delivery Project, as well as, Rural Electrification: A Hard Look at Costs
and Benefits; OED Precis, May 1995; Rural Energy and Development (World
Bank Development in Practice, September, 1996; India Renewable Resources
Development, Indonesia Solar Home Systems, Indonesia Renewable Energy
Small Power and Energy, Poverty and Gender in Indonesia and Sri Lanka, May
2001, and Uganda Energy for Rural Transformation Project. The guiding
principles for success that emerge from these studies are: providing
consumer choice, ensuring cost reflective pricing, overcoming high first
cost barrier, encouraging local participation, and implementing sound
sector policies.The Energy Services Delivery Project in particular offers
many useful lessons for RERED Project design. The design is flexible, with
each supervision mission being viewed as an opportunity to adjust project
design to address emerging problems and issues. The grant design and
delivery models are simple and easy to implement, credit lines and grant
administration are commercially managed and industry associations and
advocacy groups are promoted for guiding industry growth and directions.
Technology-specific lessons learned are given below:Grid-based
renewables: Certainty of tariff regime and availability of long term
financing are critical to private sector development of grid connected
projects. The private sector mini-hydro experience has opened the door for
similar projects using biomass and wind resources.Village Electricity
Systems: Participation and mobilization of the whole community is
essential for long-term sustainability. While village hydros remain the
least-cost solution for many isolated rural communities, high development
and investment costs continue to be a barrier. To overcome this cost
barrier, the returns from use of electricity have to be enhanced through
increased productive activities, energy conservation, and streamlining of
project development to reduce costs. Commercial banks incur high
transaction costs in financing and supervising small-scale rural projects
and the costs to villages of accessing special credit/grants are also
-9-



high. Increasing the role of rural credit institutions could ease this
constraint. Technical capacity to operate and maintain such projects an be
easily developed within the existing infrastructure of village technicians
and fabricators. It is important to facilitate village hydro development
within an appropriate legal framework to bolster their legal status and
there is a need to mitigate the stranded cost risks in the event of grid
reaching a village hydro system. A light-handed regulation would be
appropriate for small systems in remote, rural areas.Solar PV: The
relevant lessons from a recent review World Bank Solar Home Systems
Projects: Experiences and Lessons Learned 1993-2000 are that adequate
after-sales service, including consumer education in proper maintenance
and operating procedures, is important for consumer satisfaction,
minimizing maintenance costs and enhancing overall system reliability. In
as much as marketing campaigns are important in order to enlarge the
market, consumer awareness must be combined with other factors such as
affordability, demonstrations, opinions of neighbors, and service presence
etc. to be effective. Also, the adequate facilitation of consumer credit
is key to expanding the market beyond cash sales. Additional solar
industry lessons for scale-up of operations point to the need for
involvement of large firms whose business plans feature sales of
thousands of systems per month, rather than the tens or hundreds per
month. Large firms are attracted by a stable operating environment - i.e.
stable ground rules such as the SHS specifications and transparent grant
release procedures over a long period - and the prospects for attractive
returns on investment. In order to promote market growth, more
micro-credit/consumer finance institutions are needed and consumers are
aware enough to utilize the quality of life and income producing potential
of solar systems.Energy efficiency and conservation: Key lessons learned
from the implementation of Bank-supported energy efficiency projects
within the Bank in Thailand, India, Sri Lanka and China are that high
tariffs are a strong incentive to promote energy efficiency and DSM but
are not by themselves sufficient to expand the market. Other barriers
including awareness and lack of private sector service provision channels
are equally important. Also, financial packaging of energy efficiency
projects are important as such projects often need innovative financing
and security structures. Energy Services Companies (ESCOs) are appropriate
private sector vehicles for implementing energy efficiency projects, but
the industry needs to be nurtured through technical assistance.
Cross-sectoral Energy Applications There is little operational experience
yet with this component. However, the lessons learned during the
preparation of the Uganda Energy for Rural Transformation Project have
been incorporated in the design of this project. The key lessons are that
cross-sectoral applications can stimulate demand for electricity services,
making it more attractive for private sector participation in rural
electrification schemes and that these are welcomed by all stakeholders.
However, given the lack of precedents, it would take time to develop
operational models.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The project has been classified as category 'FI'
(Financial Intermediation) under the Bank's Environmental and Social
guidelines. The project has been categorized 'FI' considering that it is
a credit line to finance private sector development of grid connected mini
- 10 -



hydro, off -grid village hydro, solar PV, wind and biomass energy
generation projects, where sub-projects have not been identified at
present. Most of the anticipated impacts are local, reversible and are
proposed to be mitigated/minimized by addressing them through good
environment and social management practices. A framework for
environmental and social analysis and mitigation has been developed by the
Government and is available in the Public Information Center. All
sub-projects will undertake project specific EAs based on the
Environmental and Social Assessment Framework. The Framework is
consistent with World Bank Safeguard policies and the National
Environmental Act of Sri Lanka. The sub-project proponent will be
responsible for preparing the EAs with assistance from consultants. The
EAs will be reviewed by the Central Environmental Authority (CEA) or the
project clearance agency (PCAs), as designated by the CEA. In Sri Lanka
the CEA and PCAs have a good record of environmental and social
responsibility. The CEA also has the responsibility of monitoring EMPs.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Subramaniam V. Iyer
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4441
Fax:   (202) 522-2427
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 17, 2002.
- 11 -



