Document of
The World Bank
FOR OmCLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13265
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 2107-JM)
JUNE 30, 1994
Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy Operations
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Exchange rates used for conversion of J$ values in this report are:
US$1 = J$1.78 in 1982; J$2.45-JS$3.30 in 1983; J$3.40-J$4.95 in 1984; J$4.90-
J$5.50 in 1985; J$5.50 in 1986-87; J$5.50-6.50 in 1989; J$6.50-J$7.99 in 1990;
J$8.03-J$20.95 in 1991; and J$21.95-J$22.15 in 1992
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
EPZ        -    Export Processing Zone
ERR        -    Economic Rate of Return
GOJ        -    Government of Jamaica
JAMPRO   -    Jamaica Export Promotion Agency
KFZ        -    Kingston Free Zone
KFZC       -    Kingston Free Zone Company, Ltd.
PAJ        -    Port Authority of Jamaica
PCR        -    Project Completion Report
SFBs       -    Standard Factory Buildings
UNIDO      -    United Nations Industrial Development Organization
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
Kingston Free Zone Company Ltd. (KFZC)-KFZC's financial year covered April 1
through March 31.



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
June 30, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Jamaica -
Kinzston Free Zone Project (Loan 2107-JM)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Jamaica - Kingston Free Zone Project (Loan
2107-JM). Parts I and III were prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with
Part II contributed by the Borrower. The project was approved in March 1982 and closed in May 1991
about 40 months after the original Closing Date. Because of cost savings resulting from the devaluation
of the Jamaican dollar and at the request of the Government of Jamaica, US$5.0 million was cancelled
as of March 14, 1989. A further US$877,080 was cancelled on May 10, 1991, when the final
disbursement was made.
The project objectives were to promote exports and create new employment opportunities by
building rentable factory floor space in a free zone. The project objectives and physical targets were
achieved and the PCR presents recalculated financial and economic rates of return of 7 + % and 20 + %,
respectively. The design of the operation conformed with best practices as set out in the Bank policies
applicable at the time, including those related to the allowable extent of local cost financing. The
Government complied with all covenants during implementation. The main lessons of the project
concern how to successfully operate such endeavors on sound commercial principles. The project
outcome is rated as satisfactory and its sustainability as likely. The institutional development impact
is rated as modest with the relevant support for technical assistance, included in the project, secured
from USAID, with satisfactory results.
The PCR provides a good and complete assessment of the strengths of the project. No audit
is planned.
Robert Picciotto
by H. Eberhard Kopp
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its
couteaut may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 2107-JM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   ...................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........................................iii
PART I. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  ..............                                          1
1. Project Identity.                                                                                         1
2. Background.                                                                                                1
3.   Project Objectives and Description .................................                                    2
4. Project Design and Organization.                                                                          3
5. Project Implementation.                                                                                   4
6. Project Results.                                                                                          5
7 Project Sustainability.                                                                                    7
8. Bank Performance.                                                                                         8
9. Borrower Performance.                                                                                     9
10.  Project Relationship  ..........................................                                       12
11.  Consulting Services  ..........................................                                        12
12.  Project Documentation  ........................................                                        13
PART II. PROJECT REVIEW  FROM  THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  ...                                  ......      14
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION  ..............................                                           18
i. Related Bank Loans  ...........................................                                          18
2. Project Timetable .............................................                                          19
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements  .........................                                 21
4. Project Implementation   .........................................                                       22
5. Project Costs and Financing  ......................................                                      23
6. Project Results  ..............................................                                          24
7. Status of Covenants  ...........................................                                         25
8. Use of Bank Resources  .........................................                                         26
9. Kingston Free Zone Profile .......................................                                       27
10. Annual Data on Rent Paid by Each Firm   .............                ..        ...............          28
11. Annual Data on Wages and Salaries Paid by Each Firm  ........               .............               29
12. Balance Sheet as of March 31, 1983-86; 1987-91  ..........               ...............                30
13. Income Statement for Year Ended March 31, 1983-86; 1987-91 ......                 ..     ........       32
14. Statement of Changes in Financial Position for Year Ended March 31, 1983-91  ......                     34
15. Financial Rate of Return Based on Actual Investment Costs  .......              ..      .........       36
16. Economic Rate of Return ......            ..............               ....................             37
Annex 1. Project Results  ..........................................                                        38
IThis document has a rt.;-i'c auibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.             l






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 2107-JM)
PREFACE
This Project Completion Report (PCR) reviews the performance of the Kingston Free Zone
Project in Jamaica for which Loan 2107-JM (US$13.5 million) was approved by the Board on
March 23, 1982. The Loan had a civil works component of US$13.4 million and a technical
assistance (TA) component of US$0.1 million. In view of project costs savings resulting from
the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar and at the request of the Government of Jamaica, US$5.0
million was cancelled as of March 14, 1989. Further US$877,080 was cancelled on May 10,
1991 when the final disbursement was made, about 40 months after the original Closing Date.
Parts I and III of the PCR were prepared by the Trade, Finance, Industry and Energy
Operations Division, Country Department III, Latin American and the Caribbean Region
(LA3TF). These Parts I and III were sent to the Government and KFZC for their review and
comments. Part II has been prepared by KFZC. The Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ), as 60%
owner and provider of counterpart fund and technical support for the project, has reviewed the
entire draft PCR (including Part II). The Borrower and PAJ approved Part II prepared by
KFZC.
The PCR is based on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR); the Loan and Project Agreements;
supervision reports; internal Bank memoranda; correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower/KFZC; KFZC's audited financial statements and periodic progress reports; and other
data supplied by KFZC and World Bank missions' interviews with selected tenants.






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 2107-JM)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Objectives. The principal objectives of the project were to promote exports, generate
foreign exchange earnings and create new employment opportunities, in the Greater Kingston
area--near one of the highest unemployment areas of Kingston (para. 3.1). In order to
accomplish these objectives, the project was to help finance development of about 23 acres of
land and construction of about 80 standard factory buildings (SFBs) totalling about 520,000
sq. ft. of space and approximately 950 yards of a 12 foot security wall (para. 3.2).
2.    Implementation Experience. The project's scope and scale on the whole were
appropriate although the early standard factory buildings (SFBs) could have had greater roof
insulation to maintain lower interior temperatures and the original placement of loading bays
could have been improved. At completion, the 23 acres of land were developed as planned;
88 SFBs representing 596,420 sq. ft. of factory space were completed, surpassing the
original project design. About 1,190 (as against the originally planned 950) yards of 12 foot
high security wall was erected. While implementation of the project as originally conceived
was completed without major delay (para. 5.1), the final disbursement took place 40 months
after the original Closing Date of December 31, 1987. In view of project cost savings
resulting from the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar and at the request of the Borrower,
US$5.0 million (out of the original US$13.5 million Bank loan) was cancelled in September
1989. Further US$877,080.24, representing the undisbursed balance at the time of final
disbursement, was cancelled. Despite the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar taken place
during the course of project implementation, the Jamaican dollar remained overvalued during
most phases of project implementation until 1991 when Jamaica liberalized the exchange rate.
The risk of having unoccupied buildings during the construction phase of the project was to
be minimized by limiting the number of SFBs to be constructed in advance of firm demand
to the two or three modules. This approach was by and large followed. On the basis of
continued strong levels of demand for SFB space during mid 1980s, Kingston Free Zone
Company (KFZC) started construction of final 16 SFBs in 1986/87. However, because of a
downturn in regional apparel operations, political uncertainty, and Hurricane Gilbert, the
demand estimated on the basis of active enquiry was not translated into actual leased space
when construction of SFBs was completed in 1989. The situation worsened in 1991 when
three firms left the KFZ. The unoccupied SFBs reached 227,800 sq. ft. in July 1992 but
recently reduced to 83,000 sq. ft., thanks to positive results of increased promotional efforts
made by KFZC.
3.    Project Results. The project's economic impact was positive and exceeded the
appraisal projections in many respects. Annual net foreign exchange earnings during 1987-
91 exceeded an average projected level of US$10.4 million. Employment levels in KFZ,



- iv -
which were as high as 11,000 workers at one point in 1987, have been on average about
6,500 workers compared with the appraisal estimate of 4,000 workers. Gross exports
generated by KFZ firms during 1982-1991, according to KFZC, totalled over US$712
million with annual gross exports averaging about US$110 million during 1987-91; no
projections were made on this at the time of appraisal (para. 6.1).
4.    Secondary positive effects, not envisaged at appraisal, include the substantial
employment opportunities provided by KFZ companies to women. Work in the KFZ is the
first employment in the formal sector for many women and has allowed them to accumulate
skills and some degree of financial independence. Another is the availability of quality
medical services. The KFZ medical clinic treats approximately 1,800 patients per month and
provides family planning to 500 persons monthly. The backward linkages created were
limited. Nevertheless, there has been substantial training of local workers and some transfer
of technology as evidenced by the fact that the KFZ hosts some of the most sophisticated
apparel/textile operations in the Caribbean Basin. The internal financial rate of return on
actual investments associated with the project, using the same methodology as in the
appraisal report, is now estimated at about 8% as compared to 8-10% estimated at the time
of appraisal. Current estimates of the economic rate of return (ERR) are that the project will
yield an ERR of 21%, compared to a projected 26% at the time of the appraisal (Tables 15
and 16, and Annex 1 in Part III).
5.    Sustainability. The project's economic impact (in terms of employment and foreign
exchange earnings) is sustainable, subject to good management of the risk of high
dependence on a few firms and industries and related volatility of the occupancy rate. For
Jamaica, in general, the large, low-cost English-speaking labor force remains as one of the
country's primary strengths. Moreover, the close proximity to the United States, absence of
quotas, and market preference under the Caribbean Basin Initiative give Jamaica a number of
comparative advantages, particularly for Asian firms that wish to protect their access to the
U.S. market and offer quicker turnaround. The Free Zone law also offers an attractive
package of incentives which, overall, remains very competitive by regional standards. The
location of KFZ itself, irrespective of any development that may take place on the ownership
of the zone or SFB spaces, should remain the attractive choice for most export-oriented
industries in Jamaica (paras. 7.1 and 7.4).
6.    Findings and Lessons Learned. The project has met its objectives of promoting
exports, generating foreign exchange earnings, and creating new employment opportunities in
Kingston areas. One lesson that may be learned from the experience in the project has to do
with the rental rate formula based on specific percentage of cost of the most recently
constructed SFBs. While this formula was originally intended to ensure adequate revenue to
cover the KFZ's operating and maintenance expenses, plus debt service and future
investment expenses, experience under this project shows that the formula does not guarantee
the financial viability of industrial estate projects in the face of lower-than-expected
occupancy levels and higher-than-expected operating costs (para. 8.2). The importance of
denominating rents in a hard currency has been demonstrated as another lesson. The KFZ is
one of the few public sector zones in the region to have had the foresight to use US dollar
lease rates which has allowed the KFZC to have relatively stable and economic (rather than
substantially subsidized) rental rates (para. 8.3).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
(Loan 2107-JM)
PART I - PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1.          Project Identity
Project Name             Kingston Free Zone (KFZ) Project
Loan Number              2107-JM
RVP Unit           :     Latin America and the Caribbean
Country            .     Jamaica
Sector             :     Industry
Subsector          :     Export Processing Zone (EPZ)
2.           Background
2.1          The Government of Jamaica's (GOJ's) overall development
strategy, at the time of KFZ project appraisals in December 1980 and 1981',
was export-oriented, relying on the private sector as the main engine of growth.
GOJ pursued a two-prong approach: (i) promotion of immediate increases in
exports through fuller utilization of capacity in the bauxite/alumina industry,
rehabilitation of tourism, sugar and banana sectors, and an increased emphasis
on manufactured exports; and (ii) the structural reform of the Jamaican
economy, which, among other things, should provide the basis for a healthy
long-term growth of manufactured exports. Against this background, the KFZ
project was seen by GOJ as a specific instrument of its export promotion policy
to serve immediate as well as long-term needs. As such it was designed to: (a)
attract foreign investors; (b) give domestic industries a demonstration of the
country's export potential; (c) create backward linkages to domestic supply of
materials and components; (d) provide training experience in technical skills,
management, international marketing and quality control for local employees;
and (e) stimulate and facilitate technical/financial contacts and collaboration with
foreign firms.
2.2         The KFZ was created by the Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ) in
1976 to implement the recommendations of a UNIDO-sponsored feasibility study
completed in 1975. In February 1980, Jamaica's legislature passed the Kingston
Export Free Zone Act which authorized PAJ to administer, control, operate and
manage the Free Zone. The law sets forth the incentives, rules and regulations
governing the operations of the KFZ.  The incentives include duty-free
importation of raw materials, goods, and equipment; free access to foreign
exchange; and no restrictions on the transfer of capital and profits. Moreover,
1.    The appraisal was carried out in December 1980 and it was updated in
December 1981.



- 2 -
free zone company profits are granted total relief from Jamaican income tax.
The total land area allocated to KFZ comprised 115 acres, adjacent to the trans-
shipment port, along the western boundary of Kingston Port and extending south
and east to a future container terminal designated the Gordon Cay Container
Terminal. In February 1982, PAJ created a limited liability company, Kingston
Free Zone Company Ltd. (KFZC), to operate the KFZ as its subsidiary and
agent in carrying out its responsibilities under the law.
2.3         GOJ requested Bank financing for expansion of KFZ  in
September 1978, and the appraisal was carried out in December 1980 and
updated in December 1981. During the FY76-FY81 period, using its own
funds, and those borrowed from the Jamaica National Investment Corporation
(JNIC), the PAJ surcharged 14 acres of land, and constructed 28 standard
factory buildings (SFBs) with 176,000 square feet (sq. ft.) of factory space for
16 tenants. An additional 7 SFBs, totalling about 45,000 sq. ft. of factory
space, for five tenants were planned to be completed by March 1982. Loan
negotiations were begun in June 1981, but were suspended until February 1982
to make adjustments in the financing plan. In March 1982, the loan was
approved and the loan agreement was signed. The loan became effective in
August 1982.
3.          Project Objectives and Description
3.1         The principal objectives of the KFZ project were to promote
exports, generate foreign exchange earnings and create new employment
opportunities, in the Greater Kingston area--near one of the highest
unemployment areas of Kingston.
3.2         In order to accomplish the above objectives, the project provided
US$13.5 million in financing the foreign exchange component for:
(a)   Civil Works
(i)    Development of about 23 acres of land, with shore
protection on the harbor side, ready for building
construction, complete with roads, power, water and
sewerage networks;
(ii)   Construction of about 80 standard factory buildings
(SFBs) totalling about 520,000 sq. ft. of space and
approximately 950 yards of a 12 foot high security wall.
(b)   Technical Assistance and Training
(i)    Management/financial/technical experts attached to KFZ
as advisors (on-the-job training);



- 3 -
(ii)   Contracts with specialized firms to carry out defined work
programs in such areas as intemational investment
promotion;
(iii)   Organized training courses and study tours for key KFZ
staff in foreign locations, such as Ireland, Philippines,
Singapore, and Malaysia.
3.3         KFZC did not use the loan proceeds for financing the technical
assistance and training component noted in item (b) above as this was met by
other sources of funds (see para. 11.1).
4.          Project Design and Organization
4.1         The KFZ project was designed to take advantage of a number of
locational strengths. Apart from the competitive incentives package, KFZ aimed
to benefit from the low-cost English speaking labor force in the country.
Moreover, the close proximity to the United States would allow manufacturers
easy access to the U.S. market. Being directly adjacent to the port of Kingston,
one of the best operated in the region, was also viewed as an important
advantage. In its early years, KFZ experienced a modest growth rate and as of
December 1981, a total of 28 SFBs had been built.  A consulting firm
specializing in export processing zones (EPZs) anticipated that demand for
Jamaican Free Zone facilities would increase in the years 1981-1990. It was
estimated that U.S. industries would export an average of between 50,000-
80,000 factory jobs per annum globally over the five-year period in EPZ-type
activities, mainly by subcontracting portions of their manufacturing process.
Using this and other available market information as the basis, KFZC
management had estimated the short- to medium-term demand at a minimum of
20 SFBs per annum, rising to 30-40 per annum, by 1983-84. Thus, the project
design was based on an assumed construction schedule of 20 units per year
which could be accelerated or slowed as warranted by market conditions.
4.2         The scope and scale of the project as designed were reasonably
appropriate, and the project remained within the original design parameters,
even as the zone expanded beyond original project plans. As to the technical
design, KFZC management notes that the early SFBs should have had greater
roof insulation to maintain lower interior temperatures. In addition, the original
placement of loading bays could have been improved. The adoption of the
utilitarian modular-style buildings, though less expensive to construct and more
efficient from a land-use perspective, are not as attractive as stand-alone
buildings which are becoming standard in most private sector zones. The design
of the KFZ will never allow it to offer the campus-like setting of private zones
in the Dominican Republic and Costa Rica. Consequently, the KFZ has been
less successful in attracting blue-chip Fortune 500 firms seeking higher quality
facilities. Additionally, this factor limits the rental rate which can be charged.



- 4 -
4.3         Implementation  of the project was the responsibility  of
KFZC/PAJ. PAJ, as 60% owner of KFZC, provided financial and technical
support to KFZC, which had a positive impact on project implementation (para.
9.2). PAJ made available not only counterpart funding but also bridge financing
for the project.  PAJ's technical support for KFZC  covered the legal,
procurement and general engineering aspects. As described in paras. 9.5-9.10,
KFZC's performance compares favorably with other public sector free zone
management organizations in the Caribbean region.
5.           Project Implementation
5.1          Physical Implementation and Completion. Project implementation
started at a very slow pace, with the SFB construction program lagging by 50%
in the project's second year, mainly due to delays in tendering procedures and
unfamiliarity with Bank procedures.  By the third year, the lag in the
construction schedule was almost fully made up. By the original closing date
of December 31, 1987, 72 SFBs representing about 500,420 sq. ft. (including
mezzanine floors of 16,320 sq. ft.), were completed. From 1985 to 1987, the
KFZ was almost fully leased, and there was excess demand for SFB space.
Thus, construction of final 16 SFBs representing 96,000 sq. ft. commenced in
1986/87. The extension of the closing date to December 31, 1988 was granted
to allow completion of infrastructure works (including shore protection and
security fencing) and 16 SFBs. The second extension of the closing date to
December 31, 1989 was needed due mainly to extensive damage caused by
Hurricane Gilbert to unfinished structures being built and partly to the proposed
addition of two items (i.e., pedestrian/bus area and improvement of water
supply facilities). By January 1990, 23 acres of land were developed and 88
SFBs with under roof rentable space of 596,420 sq.ft. were completed. The
third extension was granted for only one year ,o December 31, 1990 (rather than
two-year extension requested by KFZC) to allow completion of the two
additional items approved at the time of the second closing date extension, and
installation of a stand-by power generator.   However, the three items
(pedestrian/bus area, water supply facilities, and a stand-by generator), which
were added at a later stage of project implementation for utilization of
unforeseen project cost savings (para 5.2), could not be financed with World
Bank funds because of the long delay in GOJ tendering process (para. 9.1).
Funds for these additional works have subsequently been provided by PAJ. In
sum, implementation of the project as originally conceived was completed
without major delay.
5.2         Project Costs. Final actual project costs in US dollar terms were
estimated at about US$12.9 million as shown in Table 5 in Part III, compared
with US$22.5 million estimated at the time of appraisal. The devaluation of the
Jamaican dollar2 during the project implementation period resulted in lower
2.    The Jamaican dollar was devalued from J$1.78 to US$1.00 at appraisal to
J$5.50 in 1986 and again to J$7.60 in 1990, and further devalued in 1991 to
J$14.50.



project expenditures expressed in US dollars. Large cost savings in US dollar
terms allowed KFZC to surpass the original project design of 80 new SFBs,
representing 520,000 sq.ft. At completion, the 23 acres were developed as
expected in the appraisal document; 88 SFBs representing 596,420 sq.ft. of
factory space were completed. About 1,190 yards of 12 foot high security wall
was erected, compared with the 950 yards expected under the project appraisal.
5.3         Disbursements. The project's financing plan relied on the Bank
for 60% of its funds; accordingly, the Bank was to provide US$13.5 million of
the project's total cost of US$22.5 million. In view of project cost savings
resulting from the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar and at the request of the
GOJ, US$5.0 million (out of US$13.5 million Bank loan) was cancelled in
September 1989. Final loan disbursement was made on May 10, 1991. With
the further cancellation of US$877,080.24, representing the undisbursed balance
at the time of final disbursement, US$7.6 million was disbursed under Loan
2107-JM.
5.4         Project Risks. The possible harmful effects of an overvalued
currency on the competitiveness of Jamaican labor costs were identified at the
time of appraisal as a major project risk. As noted in the preceding paragraph,
the devaluations of the Jamaican dollar resulted in considerable savings in
project costs in US dollar terms. Despite the devaluation of the Jamaican dollar
taken place during the course of project implementation, the Jamaican dollar
remained overvalued during most phases of project implementation until 1991
when Jamaica liberalized the exchange rate.
5.5         The risk of having unoccupied buildings during the construction
phase of the project was to be minimized by limiting the number of SFBs to be
constructed to the two or three modules KFZ plans to build in advance of firm
demand. This approach was by and large followed. On the basis of continued
strong levels of demand for SFB space during mid 1980s, KFZC started
construction of 16 SFBs in 1986/87. However, because of a downturn in
regional apparel operations, political uncertainty, and Hurricane Gilbert, the
demand estimated on the basis of active enquiry was not translated into actual
leased space when construction of 16 SFBs was completed in 1989. The
situation worsened in 1991 when three firms left the KFZ. Two firms left on
account of business failure due to poor management, the third was expanding
and KFZC could not provide it with the contiguous space it required. Despite
these losses, occupancy rates increased from 57% in April 1991 to 70% in April
1992 and there appears to be a strong possibility that the occupancy rate would
be improved further given active marketing efforts by the KFZC.
6.          Project Results
6.1         Project Results. The project has met its objectives of promoting
exports, generating foreign exchange earnings, and creating new employment
opportunities in Kingston areas. The project's economic impact was positive



- 6 -
and exceeded appraisal projections in many respects. Net foreign exchange
earnings3 ranged from US$10.7 million to US$11.3 million per year during
1987-91, compared to an average projected level of US$10.4 million.
Employment levels in KFZ, which were as high as 11,000 workers at one point
in 1987, have been on average about 6,500 workers compared with the appraisal
estimate of 4,000 workers. Gross exports generated by KFZ firms during 1982-
1991, according to KFZC, totalled over US$712 million with annual gross
exports averaging about US$110 million during 1987-91; no projections were
made on this at the time of appraisal.
6.2          Based on total project cost of US$12.92 million, the investment
cost for job created was about US$2,000 per job,4 a rate similar to non-
traditional export development projects in other Caribbean Basin countries. In
addition, KFZ tenants have invested5 US$28.82 million, or US$4,650 per
employee, which is similar to regional standards. With annual exports of
US$110 million and approximately 6,500 jobs during 1987-91, KFZ had a
relatively high number of exports per employee (US$17,000/job) by regional
standards.
6.3          Secondary positive effects, not envisaged at appraisal, include the
substantial employment opportunities provided by KFZ companies to women.
Work in the KFZ is the first employment in the formal sector for many women
and has allowed them to accumulate skills and some degree of financial
independence. Another is the availability of quality medical services in the
region. The KFZ medical clinic treats approximately 1,800 patients per month
and provides family planning to 500 persons monthly.
6.4          The backward linkages created by KFZ investments in the
Jamaican economy were very limited. This seems to be the result of the
country's thin industrial base, and the large number of firms operating under the
US 807 program which requires the use of U.S. cloth in producing garments.
Nevertheless, it is recognized that there has been substantial training of local
workers and some transfer of technology as evidenced by the fact that the KFZ
hosts some of the most sophisticated apparel/textile operations in the Caribbean
Basin.
3.    Net foreign exchange earnings shown here represent payments made by KFZ
firms for labor and rent only; net foreign exchange earning effect would be
higher than the figures shown if payments by KFZ firms for electricity,
telecommunications and water services, and any local raw materials or
supplies purchased on the Jamaican Customs territory were included.
4.    This rate is determined by dividing the total project cost into the total
number of jobs.
5.    Based on figures estimated by KFZ tenants at the time of application for
factory space. These figures are likely to be lower than actual amounts
invested due to subsequent expansions, etc.



- 7 -
6.5         Profitability and Rates of Return. At the time of appraisal, the
project was expected to have an financial rate of return (FRR) of about 10% in
constant prices, based on the assumption that rents would be increased in
accordance with the agreed pricing policy (para. 8.2). It was also expected that
the FRR would be lower, about 8%, if competitive conditions in the Caribbean
do not permit rents in real terms to be increased beyond US$3.50 per sq. ft.
The FRR on actual investments associated with the project, using the same
methodology as in the appraisal report but somewhat conservative assumption
about the occupancy rate, is estimated at about 7%. Current estimates of the
economic rate of return (ERR) are that the project will yield an ERR of 20%,
compared to a projected 26% at the time of the appraisal (Tables 15 and 16, and
Annex 1 in Part III). 6
6.6         The lower-than-expected rates of return can be explained by: (a)
higher project costs in Jamaican dollar terms; (b) initial delays in building
construction and consequent reduction of rentable space in the early phase of
project implementation; (c) lower than expected incremental cash flow due to
low occupancy rate in 1989-92; and (e) higher than expected operating costs for
KFZC.
7.    Project Sustainabilitv
7.1         The project's economic impact (in terms of employment and
foreign exchange earnings) is sustainable, subject to good management of risks
elaborated in paragraphs 7.3 and 7.4 below. For Jamaica, in general, the large,
low-cost English-speaking labor force remains as one of the country's primary
strengths. Moreover, the close proximity to the United States, absence of
quotas, and market preference under the Caribbean Basin Initiative give Jamaica
a number of comparative advantages, particularly for Asian firms that wish to
protect their access to the U.S. market and offer quicker turnaround. The Free
Zone law also offers an attractive package of incentives which, overall, remains
very competitive by regional standards. The location of KFZ itself, irrespective
of any development that may take place on the ownership of the zone or SFB
spaces, should remain the attractive choice for most export-oriented industries
in Jamaica because: (i) its proximity to the Port of Kingston reduces dock-to-
factory handling charges to a minimum and simplifies Customs procedures; (ii)
there is a large labor pool nearby; and (iii) off-site infrastructure and services
(i.e., access roads, security, etc.) are superior to those found in other Jamaican
locations.
7.2          Given the KFZC's concentration in apparel manufacturing, KFZC
hopes to diversify its clientele into other industries, such as footwear, leather
goods, soft toys, and electrical goods. Based on a study by JAMPRO, the
6.    Using the 85% occupancy rate from 1994 and onwards as
suggested in Part II, the re-estimated FRR and ERR are 8%
and 21 %, respectively.



- 8 -
KFZC explored the feasibility of converting 66,000 sq.ft. of existing factory
space to serve as a commercial free zone.7
7.3      With regard to future risk factors, the 227,800 sq.ft. of unoccupied
factory space, as of July 1992, poses the most serious problem. This space
represents approximately 30% of all under-roof space in the Zone, which is high
by industrial estate occupancy standards. At US$3.5/sq.ft./year, if occupied,
this space would yield gross revenues of over J$17.54 million, an amount that
would have allowed KFZC to more than double 1991 gross income and would
have placed KFZC firmly into the black for that year. KFZC management
notes that near-term demand appears strong. From April 1991 to April 1992,
more than 105,000 sq.ft. of space was rented. Meanwhile, chances appeared
good that an additional 50,000 sq.ft. will be rented in the near future. That
would leave 177,800 sq.ft. of space uncommitted.8
7.4         KFZ faces another risk factor -- its high dependency on a few
firms and industries. Of the firms now operational, over three-quarters are in
the apparel industry. In the late 1980s, when apparel exports to the United
States fell, the KFZ lost over 4,000 employees in one year alone. Moreover,
the fact that two large apparel firms together account for 63% of all space and
78% of all workers, gives these firms substantial leverage over KFZ on critical
issues such as rental rates. Should these firms fail or move to another location,
KFZC would be in serious financial difficulties. KFZC will thus have to
continue balancing the difficult task of achieving the financial needs of the Zone
while simultaneously satisfying these critically important tenants.
8.          Bank Performance
8.1         The KFZC and the PAJ noted that the World Bank was generally
well-informed, cooperative, and helpful to the progress of the KFZ. However,
it was felt that the Bank was inflexible regarding a further extension (beyond the
third time) of the Loan's Closing Date to allow completion of the additional
works, which resulted in the cancellation of undisbursed funds of about US$0.83
million or 6% of the original loan amount. KFZC and PAJ management stated
that, since the delay was a result of slow GOJ procurement procedures, rather
than any internal factor they could control, the World Bank should have been
less rigid.
8.2         Lessons. KFZC's rental rate formula specified in Schedule 2 of
the Project Agreement calls for charging annual rents not less than 13% of cost
of the most recently constructed SFBs as competitive conditions in the
Caribbean permits. The prevailing standard rental rate of US$3.5 per sq. ft. per
7.    Taking into account KFZC's comments reflected in para. 6 of
Part II, modifications have been made to this paragraph.
8.    For recent development in factory space occupancy, please see
para. 6 of Part II.



- 9 -
year is above the 13% of invested capital based on the most recent SFB
construction costs9. KFZC's standard rate is substantially higher than those
offered by other public sector EPZs in other countries and in line with private
sector EPZ rates in other countries in the Caribbean region. While this formula
was originally intended to ensure adequate revenue to cover the KFZ's operating
and maintenance expenses, plus debt service and future investment expenses,
experience under this project shows that the formula does not guarantee the
financial viability of industrial estate projects in the face of lower-than-expected
occupancy levels and higher-than-expected operating costs.
8.3          The importance of denominating rents in a hard currency has been
demonstrated as another lesson, and helped prevent even higher foreign
exchange losses. The KFZ is one of the few public sector zones in the region
to have had the foresight to use US dollar lease rates which has allowed the
KFZC to have relatively stable and economic (rather than substantially
subsidized) rental rates. KFZC has been able to open a foreign exchange
account with the Bank of Jamaica only in 1992; earlier permission to possess
such an account would have enabled the KFZC to post substantially better
financial results through the avoidance of foreign exchange losses.
9.           Borrower Performance
9.1          GOJ Performance.  As agreed at negotiations, GOJ made the
equity contribution for strengthening KFZC's capital base.  The GOJ's
procurement process, however, has negatively affected project performance.
KFZC was required to follow the GOJ's contracting procedures; and thus, the
value of contracts exceeding J$200,000 required Cabinet approval. The slow
tendering process, which for some works entailed delays of over one year,
prevented the KFZC from attracting some potential tenants who required space
more quickly. The cumbersome and slow procurement process has resulted in
lost business opportunities and higher contract costs for the KFZC. Although
GOJ provided strong financial support to the project, it did not make an effort
to streamline and expedite its tendering procedures. Under the circumstances,
KFZC had to divide several contracts into smaller pieces which were in many
instances uneconomical. In other instances, where contracts were indivisible,
the works simply were not carried out and the funds were not disbursed before
the loan was closed. In sum, GOJ's slow tendering procedures hampered the
project's progress.
9.2          PAJ Performance.  As the majority shareholder of KFZC and
technical partner, the PAJ provided the strong financial and technical support
for the project. The PAJ made all the required equity contributions. KFZC's
capital expenditures have been financed largely by the IBRD/GOJ loan and the
PAJ's interest-free loan.  All KFZC's debts were provided by its two
shareholders, GOJ and the PAJ.  Interest and commitment fees on the
9.    The most recent average construction cost, based on 1987-88 figures and
exchange rates, is US$16.82 per sq.ft.



- 10 -
IBRD/GOJ subsidiary loan have been treated as GOJ advances to KFZC. The
Bank did not object to this arrangement. As anticipated at appraisal, the PAJ
provided KFZC with legal, procurement and general engineering support
services.
9.3          KFZC Performance. While the Kingston Free Zone project is a
success on economic grounds, it is too early to determine whether the project
will be a success on a commercial basis. The project has surpassed many of the
targets set in the appraisal report.  On the other hand, KFZC financial
performance is weaker than had been projected. KFZC's arrears in payment to
the Government stood at J$32.4 million as of March 31, 1991; this has been
treated as Government advances to KFZC without objection from the Bank."0
In addition, the PAJ's advances to KFZC amounted to J$94.6 million as of
March 31, 1991.
9.4          During 1983-1991, KFZC was able to achieve breakeven in FY86
and near breakeven in FY88 and FY89.'1 Given the heavy interest expenses
typical for industrial estates, these projects usually experience net losses for
their first five years of operation, as was expected in the appraisal. But in the
past three fiscal years, KFZC has continued to suffer losses for the following
reasons: (a) a sharp increase in operating costs and large foreign exchange
losses in FY90; (b) a large increase in depreciation charges resulting from the
revaluation of fixed assets in FY91; and (c) huge foreign exchange losses in
FY92 (the foreign currency loss in FY92 was J$46 million -- equivalent to 95 %
of the total loss).
9.5          The performance of the KFZC management and staff compares
favorably with other public sector free zone management organizations. In fact,
it is one of the few public sector free zone management teams in the Caribbean
region that receives positive marks from  tenants.  This is the result of a
conscious policy by KFZC staff to provide a high quality level of service to
tenants. These services include assistance for the speedy hook-up of utilities,
helping new firms through the investment bureaucracy, and identifying potential
employees for firms, etc.
9.6          KFZC  has also demonstrated  the necessary  flexibility in
attempting to remain competitive with zones in neighboring countries. When
employment in the zone surpassed original expectations, security, traffic and
utilities became a problem.  Subsequently, the KFZC planned and began
construction of a pedestrian/bus gate, stand-by electrical generator, additional
10.   According to Part II of the PCR, KFZC has begun making payments
to the Government on interest and principal relating to the subsidiary
loan under Loan 2107-JM, since the beginning of 1993. It plans to
continue payments to reduce outstanding principal and interest.
11.   Not taking into account financial expenses and depreciation, KFZC has shown
positive "operating" profit since FY85.



- 11 -
water facilities, and canteens. In a similar fashion, KFZC management has
worked diligently with workers, tenants, and labor-management experts when
tensions were becoming apparent. When the Zone was encountering difficulties
attracting new investors, it reduced rental rates and upgraded the maintenance
and landscaping of the Zone. In addition, KFZC management undertook new
marketing strategies to identify and attract more tenants. Most importantly, the
KFZC has been viewed by its shareholders as a profit-making venture, rather
than a subsidized mechanism to encourage investment.
9.7          Similar flexibility has been demonstrated in responding to
procurement and accounts receivable delays. When delays with the GOJ
tendering process slowed construction, contracts were segmented into smaller
pieces to accelerate the process. For instance, the water facilities contract was
divided into nine components. Recently, the KFZC adopted a new policy which
allows export shipments only when tenants are up-to-date on their rental
obligations. This policy has been an effective revenue collection technique to
reduce its backlog of accounts receivable to reasonable levels. As of March 31,
1991, rental arrears for over 90 days stood at US$108,000. By July 7, 1992,
rental arrears of over 90 days had dropped to only US$7,000.
9.8          Overall operations of the Zone are good. This is partly the result
of wages and salaries which are competitive with those in the private sector (as
specified in the Project Agreement), thus allowing the KFZC administration to
attract and retain high quality personnel. This is unusual for a public sector free
zone, but it has also been a factor in higher than expected operating costs.
Unlike many public sector free zones in the region, KFZC utilizes standard
business accounting practices, has a regular ongoing maintenance program, and
has developed and implemented a sound marketing strategy.  KFZC has
budgeted a sufficient amount of money for undertaking its promotional
activities.'2 In addition, KFZC management has been willing to farm out work
that can be better provided by others, such as, canteen operations and waste
removal which are handled by outside contractors.
9.9          With its staff of 64 full-time employees, KFZC's organization
may at first appear to be somewhat heavy as it is substantially higher than the
39 person staff foreseen in the appraisal report. This variance is due to the fact
that there are 40 security officers working for KFZC, as compared to the 15
envisaged at the time of appraisal. KFZC has 2-3 times as many security
officers as other free zones (public or private), reflecting concern about the high
levels of pilferage and potential for smuggling contraband materials for export
to the United States.  In the PCR mission's view, this decision to bolster
12.   In 1991, KFZC budgeted approximately US$56,000 for promotional activities
(excluding salaries for client service personnel). This is substantially more than
other regional public sector zones devote to promotion (typically under
US$20,000) and is in the range of promotional expenses of its regional private
sector competitors.



- 12 -
security personnel was indeed well justified, given the prevailing conditions in
Jamaica.
9.10         Despite the intensive use of security personnel, KFZC's
administrative staff compares well with other zones in the total number of staff
per square foot of rented under-roof factory space (nearly 8,500 sq.ft. per
KFZC employee). Three private sector zones in the region have 4,200-6,000
sq.ft. of space per administrative employee. Public sector zones in Central
America, in comparison, are more heavily staffed at 2,300-7,200 sq.ft. per
administrative employee. Only one private sector zone in Costa Rica and the
public sector zones in the Dominican Republic boast better space/employee
ratios and the public sector zones in the Dominican Republic offer a
substantially lower level of services than the KFZ.
9.11         KFZC is now studying the possibility of selling buildings and/or
land as is done in many private sector free zones. This option is attractive to
many firms which prefer to own their facilities. It also allows the zone to
charge firms for services rendered. Many privately owned zones have found
that this element provides the most important source of cash flow. In addition,
the selling of buildings is often used as a means of financing future development
of the zone. In this manner, private zones in Costa Rica and the Dominican
Republic have been able to expand without taking on additional loans.
10.         Project Relationship
10.1        The relationship between the World Bank and KFZC (and the
PAJ) has been amicable with a high degree of understanding and cooperation.
The objectives of the project were well understood by the KFZC, PAJ, and the
Bank. KFZC officials stated that World Bank staff members were sufficiently
flexible (with the exception noted above concerning an additional closing date
extension), and excellent communication was maintained despite changes in both
KFZC management and Bank personnel throughout the course of the project.
KFZC maintained good relations with its parent company, Port Authority of
Jamaica, as well as with JAMPRO, which provides the KFZ with promotional
assistance. KFZC has also maintained good working relationships with the KFZ
tenants.
11.         Consulting Services
11.1        The project included a technical assistance and training component
to provide management/financial/technical advice to KFZ staff, to carry out
international investment promotion activities, and to finance training courses and
study tours for key KFZC staff in foreign locations. KFZC management did not
want to use Bank funds for this component, and obtained instead grant funds
from USAID. Two U.S. consultants were hired under the USAID grant: one
consultant formulated a competitive strategy in the region and the second
consultant assisted in implementing a marketing strategy in North America. In



- 13 -
addition, several KFZC executives participated in overseas training seminars and
attended trade fairs also financed by USAID.
12.         Project Documentation
12.1        The Loan Agreement and Project Agreement were appropriate for
the project. The staff appraisal report provided a useful framework for both the
Bank, PAJ and KFZC to assist project implementation. KFZC's financial
records and files were well maintained and up-to-date, including data on foreign
exchange earnings, tenants' profile, rents and employment.



- 14 -
PART I
Part 1 of 4
PART II'- PROJECT REVIEW  FROM THE BORROWER'S
PERSPECTIVE
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
(LOAN 2107-J1)
1.    Part II of the completion report on Loan 2107 is prepared by Kingston
Free Zone Company Ltd. as executing agency for the Government of Jamaica
(the Borrower).
Factual Information contained in Part III
2.    Part III of the capital's project completion report presents adequately
and accurately the factual information on the project implementation, project
cost and financing, project results, Kingston Free Zone's profile (including
data on payment of rent and wages by tenant firms), KFZ's financial
condition and performance during 1983 to 1991.
3.    However, it should be noted that revised estimate of (financial and
economic rates) of return is based on assumptions which seem to be
somewhat conservative. For example, the occupancy rate in KFZ is
currently about 85% and likely to be increased further while rental income
(for the purpose of revised estimate of rates of return shown in tables 15 and
16, and Annex 1) is apparently based on 80% occupancy rate for the years
1995 and onwards.
Comments on the Analysis contained in Part I
4.    The Kingston Free Zone agrees that the project has met its objectives
(as outlined in para. 6.1 of Part I).
5.    The analysis contained in Part I was found useful and thorough. It
contains useful comparison of the performance of the KFZC's management
and staff with other public sector free zone management organizations (para.
9.5 of Part I) and with private sector zones in the region (para. 9.10 of Part
I). The analysis is found thorough, reflecting careful observation of
KFZC's policy and practices (e.g., paras. 9.5, 9.9 of Part I) and secondary
positive effects of the project as summarized in para. 6.3. Part I also reflects
fairly KFZC's views on: the technical design of the project (para. 4.2 of Part
I); the World Bank performance (para. 8.1 of Part I); the issue of slow
tendering process (para. 9.1); and project relationship (para. 10.1 of Part I).
1.    Part II of the PCR has been reproduced as submitted. Footnotes, however,
have been added by the Bank for explanatory purposes.



- 15 -                        PART I
Part 2 of 4
6.    Notwithstanding the comments made at Part I, the following updated
information should be considered.2 These are as follows:
Part I, Section 5.5 -- In respect of the last sentence beginning,
"Despite these losses...., the rest of the sentence should more accurately read
as follows:
"Occupancy rates increased from 50% in April 1991 to 80%3 in April 1992
and since then has increased to 86% occupancy with every indication that full
occupancy is likely to be realized by the end of 1994. This is largely due to
a more vibrant marketing program, greater emphasis on the Far East and on
market access to North America and Europe which has become even more
important, given the spectre of NAFTA to which Jamaica has applied for
parity status initially."
In respect of Section 6.1, it is important to note that in calendar year
1993, draft estimates indicated that export values for that year realized
US$144 million, an increase of US$18 million over 1991 with employment in
1993 averaging 6,700 workers, an increase of 400 over 1991 and 800 over
1990. The trend, therefore, is the increasing export values being realized
over the last four years.
In respect of Section 6.6, we would suggest adding to sub item "E"
that the 1991 devaluations and increased inflation also accounted for a higher
operating cost.
In regards to Section 7.2, it should be noted that the Port Authority's
marketing office in Taiwan was closed in 1993. Nonetheless, the interest
engendered continues to be addressed by the JAMPRO office in Hong Kong
and our Embassy in Tokyo. In addition, because of the increased demand,
some of the 66,000 sq. ft. of existing factory space which was earmarked for
the Commercial Free Zone as had to be rented for manufacturing operations.
The continued effective interest in a commercial free zone has warranted a
separate exercise to consider the establishment of a separate commercial zone
2.    Unless otherwise noted, no revision has been made in Part I of the PCR on the
basis of information/comments contained in this paragraph.
3.    This figure does not seem to be correct as unoccupied factory space was
227,800 sq. ft. in July 1992 according to KFZC's own comments on
para. 7.3 of Part I. This means that the occupancy rate was about 70% (of total
under-roof industrial space of 770,470 sq. ft.).



- 16 -                           PART II
Part 3 of 4
in a different location from that of the present location of the (manufacturing)
Kingston Free Zone.4
In reference to Section 7.3, it should now be noted that unoccupied
factory space as of January 1993 is 83,000 sq. ft. which represents a
significant reduction from 227,800 sq. ft. recorded in July 1992. This space
represents approximately 14% of all under-roof space in the zone.
In respect of Section 7.4, the Zone now accommodates 18 operations
and based on current demand, this figure should increase thus reducing the
comparatively high dependency on a few existing firms.
In regard to Section 9.3, it should be noted that the Kingston Free
Zone has since the beginning of 1993, begun making payments against
interest and principal owed to the World Bank5 and provisions for the fiscal
year 1994/95 will continue this policy of meeting these payments, thus
reducing outstanding principal and interest.
In regard to Section 9.9, a recent auditing of the Free Zone's
operations undertaken by Peat Marwick indicated that substantial savings
could be realized if a core security staff was retained with remaining security
posts being covered by contract with private security companies. This
recommendation has been accepted and has partially been implemented with
full implementation being realized during the fiscal year 1994/95.
7.     It follows from para. 3 above that the FRR and ERR on the project
would be somewhat higher than the rates noted in para. 6.5 of Part I and
shown in tables 15 and 16 of Part III, should estimates be made on the basis
of the latest development in occupancy rate.6
4.     Based on this information, reference to PAJ's marketing office in Taiwan,
China is deleted from para. 7.2 of Part I, and reference to a commercial free
zone has been modified.
S.     As KFZC borrowed from the Government via the subsidiary loan agreement
under Loan 2107-JM, it should read: "--begun making payments to the
Government on interest and principal relating to the subsidiary loan agreement
under Loan 2107-JM and--". Based on this information, some modifications
have been made and a footnote has been added to para. 9.3 of Part I.
6.     Using the 85% occupancy rate from 1994 and onwards (instead of conservative 80%
occupancy rate from 1995 and onwards), the re-estimated FRR and ERR are 8% and
21%, respectively. A footnote has been added to para. 6.5 of Part I to show the re-
estimated FRR and ERR.



- 17 -                       PART I
Part 4 of 4
8.    While KFZC concurs with views regarding project sustainability
(paras. 7.1, 7.4 of Part I), KFZC's promotional efforts since mid-1992 and
their impact on occupancy are summarized here to help readers of this
Project Completion Report understand that necessary actions to sustain the
project benefits are being taken and results have been positive. Since mid-
1992, the Free Zone efforts have been rewarded, with the securing of the
first clients from China and from South Korea, with the South Korean
company being a subsidiary of our first Blue Chip Company from the Far
East, namely, Daewoo of South Korea. Export values have been increased
from US$126.7 Million (1991) to US$144.3 Million at the end of 1992 and
retained earnings have risen by a further US$1 Million over 1991, the latter
being reflected of efforts to make purchases and subcontracts more attractive
as far as the Customs Territory is concerned. Additionally, direct imports
from the Customs Territory has been doubled since mid-1992, increasing
from US$203,149 to US$476,621 at the end of 1992. Our data base which
was started in mid-1992, stood at 350 by mid-1993 and serious leads derived
from this data have increased significantly since then.
Performance of the World Bank
8.    KFZC's views on the performance of IBRD is accurately reflected in
Part I (para. 8.1). We would like to reiterate that IBRD was generally well-
informed, cooperative and helpful to the progress of the KFZ. However,
IBRD could have been less rigid regarding a fourth extension of the Closing
Date given the special circumstances (relating to slow government
procurement procedures).
KFZC's Performance
9.    The comments in Part I on KFZC's performance are objective and
fair.
Project Relationship
10.   We concur with the views on the project relationship as stated in para.
10.1 of Part I.
Port Authority of Jamaica's (PAJ) Approval of Part II
11.   PAJ reviewed the entire draft PCR (including Part II) and approved a
draft of Part II which has subsequently been sent to the Government for its
approval.'
7.    The Government, by its letter of April 6, 1994, has confirmed its approval of
Part II of the PCR.



- 18 -                                     Part lll
Table I
PART m - STATISTICAL INFORMATION
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Related Bank Loans
Loan No./                                                                                          Year of
Project Title                                           Purpose                                    Approval          Status
Ln 1715-JM                          To support Government's overall efforts to                       1979              CLosed
Second Program Loan                  stimutate exports of nontraditional manufactured                                  (1982)
(EDF-I)                             goods by assuring continued availability of
foreign exchange, by circumventing the cumbersome
Ln 1978-JM                          and inadequate foreign exchange aLLocation system,               1981              Closed
Export Dev. Fund-ll                 by easing access to import financing credits and                                   (1983)
terms, and by encouraging private investment for
Ln 2320-JM                          exports.                                                         1983              CanceLLed
Export Dev. Fund-lIl                                                                                                   (4/30/85)
Ln 2105-JM SAL-I                    To foster export-Led development and to strengthen               1982              Closed
the operation of market forces with an enhanced                                   (1983)
role for the private sector; to imrprove public
Ln 2315-JM SAL-II                   administration; and to deveLop an energy program                 1983              Closed
to reduce petroleum imports and enhanced export                                   (1984)
development programs for Labor-intensive
Ln 2478-JM SAL-Ill                  manufactured and agriculturaL products.                          1984              CLosed
(1985)
Ln 2106-JM                          To help the Govt. implement and monitor its                      1982              Closed
Technical Assistance-I              structural adjustment program under SAL, focusing                                  (1985)
on the institutional development, export promotion
Ln 2507-JM                          and human resource development.                                  1985              Active
Technical Assistance-II
Ln 2294-JM                          To assist in the term-financing for foreign                      1983              Closed
Industrial Credit                   exchange component of NDB subloans through                                         (1989)
financial intermediaries for onlending to
privateLy owned industriaL enterprises; and to
finance technical assistance, training and
equipment requriements of NDB.
Ln 2848-JM                          To establish a broad based and more uniform tariff               1987              CLosed
Trade & Financial Sector            structure with appropriate incentives for exports;                                 (1988)
Adjustment Operation-I              and to reduce bias against private investments.
To reduce protection and make it uniform across
Ln 3303-JM                          sectors and subsectors, and increase competition                 1991              Active
Trade & Financial Sector            and efficiency of enterprises; and to improve
Adjustment Operation-Il             monetary policy management and regulatory
framework and supervision of financial
institutions.



- 19 -
Part III
Table 2
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Proiect Timetable
Ite-                       Date Planned       Date Revised       Date Actual
Identification                                    -                 02/79, 03/79
Project Brief                                     -                 11/29/79
Preparation Missions           -                  -                 05/79, 09/79,
03/80
Appraisal Mission              02/80              -                 12/80
Issues Paper                   -                  -                 01/16/81
Decision Memorandum                               -                 01/28/81
Post-Appraisal Missions        -                  -                 03/81, 08/81,
10/81, 12/81
Loan Negotiations              06/17/81           -                 06/16-17/81
01/25/82           -                 01/29-02/02/82
Board Approval                 07/81              03/04/82          03/23/82
Loan Signature                 03/82              -                 03/23/82
Loan Effectiveness             06/22/82           08/20/82          08/16/82
Loan Closing                   12/31/87            12/88, 12/89     12/31/90
Project Completion             12/31/86           12/87, 06/88,    05/10/91
12/90
Comments (Issues raised at the time of identification, preparation, post-
appraisal, loan negotiations, Issues Paper and Decision Memo)
identification Missions. Kingston Free Zone (KFZ) was in operation
since the early 1970s. The first Identification mission (February 1979)
felt that the KFZ expansion project should be fast-disbursing and it
could be programmed as a FY80 project.
The second identification mission (March 1979) reviewed KFZ's expansion
plan, construction schedule, investment estimates and cash flow and
financing requirements over time.
Preparation Missions.  The first preparation mission (May 1979) did not
find adequate progress in the preparation of a comprehensive expansion
program and long-range financial projections.
The second preparation mission (September 1979) found the progress
uneven, and emphasized the significance of setting up the KFZ as an
independent profit center with its adequate organization and staff.



- 20 -
Part III
Table 2
Page 2 of 2
The third preparation mission (March 1980) found satisfactory the final
draft of the project proposal.
Issues Paper. The Issues Paper (January 16, 1981) highlighted the
following issues: (a) need for the KFZ to operate as a self-supporting
independent subsidiary of the Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ); (b) legal
and operational implications for the Bank to accept PAJ as the Borrower;
(c) whether issues concerning industrial incentives and sectoral
policies should not be addressed in this project; (d) financing plan and
contributions from sources other than the Government's general budget,
which should be viewed as a last resort; and (e) the inclusion in
project cost of funds for technical assistance and promotion, although
PAJ was reluctant to use the Bank funds for such purposes.
Decision Memo. The Decision Meeting (January 28, 1981) addressed a
number of issues including: (a) the need to determine the short-term
local bridge financing requirements; (b) it was premature to discuss
setting up KFZ as an independent subsidiary of PAJ due to Government's
endeavor to consolidate the public sector; (c) PAJ should be accepted as
the Borrower; (d) Bank should not appraise the whole of the PAJ, which
should keep the financial assets of KFZ under a separate account; (a)
legal status of all land to be used by KFZ must be acceptable to the
Bank before Board presentation; and (f) electrical transformer station
and technical assistance component should be left out of the project.
The meeting agreed that the PAJ should be the borrower; the financial
assets of the KFZ should be kept in separate accounts from other assets
of the PAJ; the legal status of all land to be used by KFZ must be
acceptable to the Bank before Board presentation; present status of KFZ
as an autonomous division of PAJ is satisfactory provided PAJ could
increase its staff to services its growing number of clients; limit
appraisal to project itself and not to other parts of PAJ; include in
the Loan Agreement commitments of the Government concerning industrial
incentives, sector policies and the foreign exchange rate regime,
similar to other Bank loans; and if internally generated funds from PAJ
could not cover local capital needs, project should be scaled down
rather than stretch implementation period.
Post-Appraisal Missions. First mission (March 1981) was aimed to
confirm: PAJ's plan for financing the technical assistance, PAJ's
cashflow forecast, KFZ's boundaries, input data for estimating economic
rate of return, and progress in PAJ's accounting system. Second mission
(August 1981) was aimed to review: PAJ's financial forecast,
Government's financing plan for KFZ, matching of project components with
financial resources, desirability of making Government the borrower, and
procurement procedures. Third mission (October 1981) was aimed to
monitor the progress being made by the Government and its agencies.
Fourth mission (December 1981) was aimed to review: legal creation of
KFZ, signing of management contract between PAZ and KFZ, and site soils
conditions.
Loan Negotiations. The loan was renegotiated in January/February 1982
to resolve several key issues: amount and schedule of equity
contributions of the Government and PAJ; modus operandi of the transfer
of assets from PAJ to KFZ; debt service coverage ratio (increased from
1.3 to 1.5); acceptability of the draft Memorandum and Articles of
Association for KFZ Company and management contract between KFZC and
PAJ; KFZC's technical assistance program; procurement; and conditions
for Board Presentation.



- 21 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                                    Part liI
Table 3
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
SAR Estimates               Actual/Expected
-- USS thousands ------                    (X)
Original   Revised j/ Actual       Original  Revised
FY83
September 30, 1982                                   400          -         -          -         -
December 31, 1982                                    800       536        536         67       100
March 31, 1983                                     1,742       600        536         31        89
June 30, 1983                                      2,242       750        536         24        71
FY84
Septemtber 30, 1983                                2,742     1,000        637         23        64
December 31, 1983                                  3,342     1,800        637         19        35
March 31, 1984                                     4,102     2,600        741         18        28
June 30, 1984                                     4,902      3,500        741         15        21
FY85
September 30, 1984                                 5,702                  913         16
December 31, 1984                                  6,602                1,101         17
March 31, 1985                                     7,529                1,201         16
June 30, 1985                                      8,329     7,500      1,396         17        19
FY86
September 30, 1985                                 9,129                1,883         21
December 31, 1985                                  9,929                2,508         25
March 31, 1986                                    10,787                2,941         27
June 30, 1986                                     11,387    11,000      3,232         28        29
FY87
September 30, 1986                                11,887                3,232         27
December 31, 1986                                 12,387                4,008         32
March 31, 1987                                    12,922                4,008         31
June 30, 1987                                     13,184    13,000      4,377        33         33
FY88
September 30, 1987                               13500    13,500  / 4,854            36         36
Deceober 31, 1987                                                       5,052         37
March 31, 1988                                                          5,865         43
June 30, 1988                                                           6,182        46
FY89
September 30, 1988                                                      6,182         46
December 31, 1988                                                       6,523         48
March 31, 1989                                               8.500      6,925         51        81
June 30, 1989                                                           7,135         53        84
FY90
September 30, 1989                                                      7,224         54        85
December 31, 1989                                                       7,224         54        85
March 31, 1990                                                          7,431         55        87
June 30, 1990                                                           7,431         55        87
FY91
September 30, 1990                                                      7,431         55        87
December 31, 1990                                                       7,497         56        88
March 31, 1991                                                          7,538         56        89
June 30, 1991                                                           7.623         56        90
Date of Final Disbursement: May 10, 1991
A/       Revised by the first supervision mission in November 1982.
USS5.0 miLLion were cancetted as of March 14, 1989, and US$877,080 as of May 10, 1991.



- 22 -
Part III
Table 4
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Proiect Implementation
Indicators                             Appraisal            Completion
1.  Area of Land Developed (acres)                   23                    23
2.  Numbers of SFBs                                  80                    88
3.  12' High Security Wall (yards)                  950                  1190
4.  Covered Floor Space ('000 sq ft)                533                   596
5.  Number of Firms in Operation                     32                    15
6.  Number of Jobs created                        4,000                6,500"
7.  Average Unit Construction Cost                32-50                   24b
(US$/sq.ft.)
8. Average annual net Foreign Exchange
Earnings (US$ million)                         10.4           10.7-11.3o/
9.  Rental Rate (US/sq ft/year)u               3.50-6.5            2.60-3.50
v Eleven thousand was the maximum employment generated in 1987.
Y Average construction cost during the project construction period (1983-89) was
US$18 per square foot.
2' Average annual rental income (US$1.4 - 2.0 million) plus wages and benefits
(US$9.3 million).
' Standard rental rate applied by KFZ during 1987-89 was US$4.50.



- 23 -
Part III
Tabte 5
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Project Costs and Financina
A. Project Costs
(USS mittion)
---AppraisaL Estimate---    ----Revised Estimates -----    ---------Actual--------
Foreign                       Foreign                         Foreign
Locat     Exchange            Local     Exchange              Local      Exchange
Item                    Costs DJ   Costs    TotaL   Costs g/   Costs         Total    Costs A/  Costs       Total
1. Infrastructure                  2.78       4.00     6.78      2.82       4.07       6.89     2.99        4.05       7.04
2. Factory buitdings               3.47       5.00     8.47      2.04       2.93       4.97      2.31       2.95       5.26
3. MateriaLs & equip.                  -      1.30      1.30         -      0.80       0.80         -        0.62      0.62
4. UnalLocated                     2.79       3.20      5.99         -      0.70       0.70         -           -
IncLuding TA
& Training                     0.07       0.60     0.67
TOTAL                         9.04      13.50    22.54      4.86       8.50      13.36     5.30        7.62      12.92
A/       Based an the asamption that the Bank reinibrsemnit was Limited to 59X of the foreign anditures of infrastnrurtre*nd factorybuiLdirgs
and 100X of foreign expenditures of materiaLs and equipment.
B. Project Financina
(USS'000)
Source                Planned         Revised          Final
Infrastructure               4,000            4,070          4,052
Factory Buildings             5,000           2,930          2,955
MateriaLs & Equipment         1,300             800            616
Subtotal: IBRD               13500 g/         8.500          7.623
Subtotat:  Domestic           9.000           4.860          5.300
TOTAL                    22,500           13,360         12,920
j/  Inctuding USS3.2 miLLion "unalLocated" to cover the physical
and price contingencies and other unspecified costs.
b/ Includes USS0.7 million unaLLocated".



Part III
- 24 -                             Table 6
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Project ResUlts
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal
Indicators                                   Estimate       Actual
1.  No. of jobs created                                  4,000         6,5004/
2.  Annual net foreign exchange earnings (US$ mil)    10.4    10.7-11.3b/
3.  Annual rent collection (US$ mil)                       2.2       1.4-2.02/
4.  Annual total wages & benefits (USS mil)               8.2d/          9.3e/
5.  Rental rate (US$/sq ft/year)                      3.5-4.25   2.60-3.50
6.  Project cost per job (US$)                           6,650         2,000
a/    11,000 was the maximum employment generated in 1987.
b/    Average annual rental income and wages and benefits.
c/    Annual rental collection was at peak with US$2.0 million in 1988 and
1989 before gradually dropping to US$1.4 million due to loss of tenants
and reduction of rental rates.
d/    Based on 4,000 jobs to be created (when firms were assumed to reach full
production in 1990) and a total wage/benfit package of US$2,064 per year
assumed at the time of appraisal.
el    Average annual total wages and benefits during 1987-91.  Total
wages and benefits paid by KFZ tenents amounted to US$46.75
million during 1987-91.
B. Economic/Financial Impact
Appraisal    Actual/Revised
Estimate           (Estimate)
Economic Rate of Return          26            20
Financial Rate of Return         10             7



- 25 -
Part III
Table 7
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Status of Covenants
Section                                  Subject
Loan Aareement a*
3.01 (b)                     Borrower hall provide from its budget specified amounts for equity             CompLed
capital to KFZC during FY83 through FY86.
3.02                         Borrower hall no later than September 30, 1982 take a*1 necessary              Compled
action to Include in KFZC the designated lot.
Proiect Aereement
2.01(b)                      KFZC and Port Authority shall enter into an agreement satisfactory             Complied
to the Bank.
2.01(d)                      KFZC shall employ a Project Manager whose qualifications and                   Complied
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
2.01(e)                      Port Authority shall contribute specified amounts to the equity                Comphed
capita of KFZC during FY83 through FY86.
2.02(b)                      Borrower shall no later than June 30, 1982 send to the Bank a                  Complied witL deLay.
dedDed plan of TA and training.
2.05(d)                      IFZC shall furnish within six months after the Closing Date a                  (a) Suppied Information on Part m.
Project Competion Report.                                                      (b) Part 11 expected by February 2X, 1994.
2.08                         Port Authority shall get valuation of the specfied lot, acceptable to          Complied wt delay by over sIx months.
the Bank, done by September 30,1982.
3.04                         XFZC shall send to the Bank for Its comments operational rules,                Complied with delay by over five months.
regulations and standard leases for the Free Zone by September 30,
1982.
3.05                         IFZC shall change rent consistent with rental policies sd out in                Complied.
Schedule 2 to this agreement.
4.02                         KFZC and the Port Authority b/ shal furnish to the Bank the                    Complied with delay.
audited financial atements within six months of each rfscal year.
4.03                         KFZC shall not Incur any debt unless its projected internal cash               Complied S(
generation shal be at least 1.5 times the projected debt service for
the same year (including that of the debt to be incurred).
al       Section 1.02(c), (f and (h) were amended on February 23/April 26, 1983 to modify certain definitions.
bl       Requirement for the Port Authority was waived by the Bank In December 1986 upon receiving certification that conditions under the abovesnentioned section
2.01(e) had been met.
c/       KFZC borrowed only from its two shareholders-the Government and the Port Authority.



- 26 -                                        Part III
Table 8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAIC
KINGSTON  FREE  ZONE PROJECT
Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
(Staff weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                          Planned          Revised          Final
Through Appraisal                                 -                  -             27.0
Appraisal through
Effectiveness                                 -                 -             17.7
Supervision
FY90-FY91                                   11.0               19.0          (10.0)
FY8B-FY92                                     -                46.0          (25.5)
Supervision Total                                 -                  -             61.4
Total                                           -                 -            106.1
B. Missions
Staff                          Performance
Stage of Project               Month/    No. of           Days        Specialization        Rating    Types of
Cycle                        Year      Persons       in Field      Represented          Status _I  Problems la
Identification 1               02/79         3           8_c/       Finance & Engineer
Identification 11              03/79          1          4_c/       Finance
Preparation 1                  05n79          1          1 cI       Finance                   -
Preparation 11                 09179         1           3 2/       Finance                  -
Preparation III                03/80         1           4_c/       Finance                  -
Appraisal                      12/80         3           18         Finance & Engineer       -
Post Appraisal 1               03/81          1          6          Finance                  -
Post Appraisal 11              08/81         1           5          Finance                  -
Post Appraisal III             10/81         2           6          Finance & Engineer       -
Post Appraisal IV              12/81         2           6          Finance                  -           -
Geotechnical             -           -
Board Approval                 04/82         1           5          Legal                    -           -
through                        05/82          1          5          Economist                 -          -
Effectiveness
Supervision                1.  11/82         2          10          Finance                   2          M,T
01/83         3          10         Finance & Engineer        -
03/83         1          2          Finance
05183         1          3          Geotechnical
06/83         1          1          Environment               -
11.  08/83         2          6          Finance                   2           M,T
Ill.  02/84         2         10          Finance                   2          M,T
IV.   01185         2          8          Finance                   2          M,T
V.   06/85         1           1          Finance                   2          M
VI.  06/86          1          7          Finance                   2          M
VIl.   10/87        3          21d1        Finance & Engineer        1
VIII.  02/89         2          10         Finance & Engineer        2
IX.   03/90         2          10         Finance & Engineer        2          F, P
X.   11/90         1           6          Finance                  2           F, P
a/ Performance Rating: 2 - Moderate Problems.
D/ Types of Problems: F - Financial, M - Managerial, P - Procurement and T - Technical.
c/ Guess-estimate, since the mission had multiple objectives.
d/ The same mission also appraised an expansion of this project, which was aborted.



Part III
PROJECT ~W9LET1OM REPORT                                           Table   9
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZWi! PRO-JECT
Kiraston Free Zone Profil.."
Lease/Rent note         Anniual Lease/                             Totat                                 Rent
........        nas of                                              Yer,of        lUnder-Roof    (VS11/so ftlvr)         Rent Paid        No. of Full-Timw  dega  & Salaries    Export Sales            Arrears
Ma-----;in                           EYStablish-       RentabLe                             (IJss'00)         Persom Ergogg       Paid (UsS'000)        CUSOO              of 3 or
Counetry of     Produjct        Type of            ment            SPace      Maximun    Actuat  NMaxma   Actual   Maxima   Actual  Maxim..n  ActLaL  Ntaxim.    Actual    More Monti
Firm               Origin          Line          Ownershiip S/      in KFTZ        (sq. ft.)   (Year)W    in 1990  (T*ar)bf  in 1990  (Year)W  in 1990  (Year)b/ in 1990  (Year)hf fn 1990    (USS'000)
or 1991             or 1991             or 1991            or 1991             or 1991
Afasia            Hong Kong       Apperel        e*iolly mined        1984             87         2.60        2.60      197        177       1246        611   221.3.1    768.1  29656.8  29656.8
fore Ign                                                          (1990)                (1967)              (1969)             (1990)
Sabe Cendies    USA               confectionery mhAdtLy owied         1984              13        3.50        3.50       29         26         34         30     34.2      15.8    777.    7707.4            11
foreign                                                           (1968)                (1969)              (1969)             (1990)
Fine Line Nfg.  USA               Appret         wholly owned         1966             12         3.50        3.50       76         76        368        145    259.1       MA      953.5    264.6           16
foreign                                                           (1991)                (1967)              (18)(1986)
GLbobalsourcing USA               AppearL        who(Ly owied         1990              6         3.50        3.50       10         10         95         95     -.MA                 --12
foreign                                                           (1991)                (1991)
feet Ocean       long Kong       Apparel         wAotly o.e.ed        1964            210         3.10        3.10      688        485       5579      3488   5990.5   3160.2  41587.9  39014.2              -
foreign                                                           (1957)                (1987)              (1967)             (1988)
Jantax Limited  USA               Aparet         wholty owred         1983             12         Ceased operatior.   199           44        476         --    219.0       -- 10048.9   6625.9
foreign                                             Jurwi 1991    (1988)                (1989)              (1989)             (1989)
Ja. Needlecraft USA              Apparel         wiholly mined        1983             32         5.41        5.41      140         86        550        520    725.4    525.8   5072.7   4746.6             43
foreign                                                           (1988)                (1989)              (1989)             (1969)
Kgn. Garmets    Hong Kong         Apparel       wmaoty owined         1984             17         3.50        3.5        74         74        360        151    532.8       KA    3767.0   1027.5
foreign                                                           (1991)                (1965)              (1987)             (1965)
Media"e  W1.I.   Nurigry          Warehouse      whotly owrnad        198               6         3.50        3.50       27         17          5          2       1.4             1234.9    922.4           -
foreign                                                           (1969)                (1985)              (1986)             (1985)
Meigeo Jo. Ltd. uSA               Apparel        mAol Ly mwined       1990             12         3.50        3.50       21         21        130        130     K-          A      234.4    234.4           10
foreign                                                           (1991)                (1991)              (1990)             (1990)
Sogo industry   Canada           Apparel         miAdly amie          1991             18         3.50        3.50       11         11         75         75     -.MA                  --
foreign                                                           (1991)                (1991)                                                                       ')
Lawrence Mfg.   USA              Apparel        bmhotty owned         1983             26         Ceased operationas  260           57        620         --    633.6             4937.5   1265.6
foreign                                           August 1991    (1987)                 (1986)              (1986)             (1984)
Wincorp          is/UJSA          Aniint Feeds  Joint Venture         1982             11         3.50        3.50       46         25         26         26    145.6    133.8   3748.4   3748.4             -
(1967)               (1991)              (1990)             (1990)
Sinotex          HNgV Kong        Varehouse      whotly mined         1988              6         3.50        3.50       79          5        372          -    506.9       .-    4259.0
foreign                                                           (1989)                (1987)              (1987)             (1988)
Century Elec.   Canada            Electronics   whaoly owied          1967              6         Ceaseod operatiore    25          4.'                    4....  --        IIAj      8.6       2.5          16
foreign                                          0ec~eI- 19,91   (1989)                 (1991)                                 (1989)
TOTALS                                                                                474                                        1,117                5,277             4,603.7           95,216.3
Ij    This table is inteanded to shows profile of companies operating in the KPE. Aggregate figures for annual rent paid, number of full-tie
semployees, total wages and salaries, and ezport sales indicate order of magnitude only as they represent sumss of relevant figures foz
different years.



PART III
Table 10
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Annual Data on Rent Paid by Each Firm
(US$10'00a!
Name of Firm                     1983      1984        1985       1986       1987      1988      1989      1990      1991      1992
Jamaica Needlecraft                 -         70         77        111        111       133       129       111       123       173
Wincorp Limited                     -         38         38         38         38        46        45        38        38        42
Medequip 1/                         -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -         _
Lawrence Manufacturing              -        114        136        147        218       241       203       175       158        34
Chulani  2/                         -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -         -
David Manufacturing                 -         12         -          -          -         -         -         -         -
Pan Crib                            -         11         -          -          -         -         -         -         -
Prima                               -         -
Jamaica Textar                      -         10                    -         -               -         -         -         -
Lorrikim                            -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -
Global Foods                        -         72         72         92        119        10        -         -         -
T.N.C.S.                            -         -          42         54         22        -         -         -         -
Doubleway                           -         17         -          -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Jamtex                              -         36         73        115        115       163       161       133       133        10    S
Saycon  Robinson                   -           3         -          -          -         -         -         -         -         -
Antillean Foods                     -         -          -          -          -          3        -         -         -
Freezeflo                          -         -           13         38         38         6        -         -         -
Medimpex                            -          7         20         20         23        23        23        23        23        23
East Ocean Textiles                 -         -         199        381        500       709       641       660       624       636
Magma Moa                           -         -          46         56         66        87       129       121        38        -
Fineline Manufacturing             -         -           -          -          42        50        49        42        42        42
Bagutta/Kingston Garments          -         -           15         61         61        73        71        61        61        65
Bobs Candies                       -          -          15         23         23        27        27        23        25        46
Gazapati Jamaica Ltd.               -         -          -          -          29       142       176       147       122        -
Afasia                              -         -          -          -          -         -        143       200       224       215
S. E. Caribe                       -          -          -          -          65       129        32        -         -
Just Brands                         -         -          -          -          34        68        68        -         -         -
Sinotex                            -          -          -          -          20        79        79        79        16        20
Century Electronics                 -         -          -          -          -         -          5        21        21        20
Global Sourcing                     -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -          9        21
Meigao Jamaica Company              -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         14        42
Sogo Industries                    -          -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -         30
Hi-Quality (Sinotex)                -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -
Jamaica Knitters                    -         -          -          -          -         -         -         -         -         19
TOTAL                                     390         746     1,136       1,524    1,989    1,981    1,834    1,671    1,438
aL Rental was denominated and collected in US dollars.
1/ Rental rates were reduced in 1988/89.
2/ During 1899/89 rental was split between East Ocean and Afasia.



PART III
Table 11
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Annual Data on Wages and Salaries Paid by Each Firm
(US$'000 equivalent)
Name of Firm                        1983      1984       1985       1986       1987     1988      1989      1990      1991
Antillean Food Processors Ltd.  1056.1           *      174.7     286.6       133.3       34.2       +         +         +
Lawrence Manufacturing Co. Ltd.  215.5 1/    *             *      633.6      633.1      195.4         *        *         +
West Indies Nutritional Corp.        37.2      58.8      55.4      106.5       77.8     103.9    128.0    145.6    111.2
Jamtex, Inc. Ltd.                   198.9    291.9    366.1       477.1      459.6      490.0    829.0    508.1        18.8
TNCS (Ja.) Ltd.                        *         *       38.7      29.2          +          +        +         +         +
Doubleway International Ltd.           *         +         +          +          +          +        +         +         +
Jamaica Needlecraft Ltd.            137.5      87.9    138.3      332.5      575.5      671.3    725.4    636.7    464.4
Saycon Robinson (Ja.) Ltd.             *         *         *          +          +          +        +         +         +
Prima Manufacturing Co. Ltd.           *         +         +          +          +          +        +         +         +
Pan Caribbean International Ltd.    *            +         +          +          +          +        +         +         +
Global Food Processing Ltd.           8.0 2/    *          *          *          +          +        +         +         +
Medimpex (West Indies) Ltd.            *         *         *         1.4         +          +        +         +         +
East Ocean Textiles Co. Ltd.           +      417.7 3/1880.8    2877.5    5990.8    3544.4   2021.7   1055.0    675.9   ,
Magma Enterprise Ltd. 5/               +       47.1 4/ 118.5      282.1      348.4      400.0    336.1         +         +    O
Bobs Candies Ltd.                      +         *       17.8      25.6       26.4       30.2      34.2      23.2      12.9
Afasia Knitters Ltd.                   +       37.4    176.8          *     1471.6    1526.5   2243.1   1131.2    666.4
Bagutta Garmet Co. Ltd. 6/             +       20.9    210.8      345.6      532.8      366.4    158.1         *         *
Tropicana International (Ja.) Ltd.  +            +      264.9     101.1      214.4      314.6    229.2       85.7        *
Fine Line Manufacturing Co. Ltd.    +            +       61.0     182.2       156.6     259.1    195.6       72.9        *
Just Brands Associates Ltd.            +         +         +        38.5     494.4      328.4        +         +         +
S. E. Caribe (Ja.) Ltd.                +         +         +       21.8      182.2       75.2        +         +         +
Gazapatil Jamaica Ltd.                 +         +         +        67.9      778.5     893.2    969.0    476.9          +
East Ocean Knitters Ltd.               +         +         +          +     1354.3    2571.2   2703.0   2497.2   1739.4
Sinotex Jamaica Ltd.                   +         +         +          +      506.9      114.0 7/    *          +         +
Century Electronics Co. Ltd.           +         +         +          +          +          +        *         *         +
Meigao                                 +         +         +          +          +          +         +        +         *
Global Sourcing                        +         +         +          +          +          +         +        +
TOTAL                             1,653.2    961.7  3,503.8   5,809.2  13,936.6  11,918.0 10,572.4  6,632.5  3,689.0
NOTE:      1/  Data represents 7-month period January to July          5/  Name changed in 1989 to MOA Apparels Ltd.
2/  Data represents 1-month information                     6/  Name changed in 1990 to Kingston Garmets Ltd.
3/  Data represents 7-month period May to November          7/  Data represents 2-month period
4/  Data represents 8-month period May to December          *  No data available
+ Not in operation



PART III
Table 12
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE COMPANY. LTD.
Balance Sheet as of March 31. 1983-86
1983                  1984                 1985                  1986
Proj.    Actual       Proj.   Actual       Proj.   Actual         Proj.    Actual
Cash and Deposits                                 -          5           -      595           -       782           -      5,344
Receivables less
Accumulated Provisions                       227      2,421         314    4,540         420       673         532      1,141
Taxation Recoverable                                         -                    -                     -                     14
Total Current Assets                                  2.426                5.135                 1.455                  6.499
Net Fixed Assets                            19,375       9,300      30,702   12,852      41,292   24,348       44,538    38,035
Unamortized Expenses                                     1,890                1,892                 1,892                  1,892
Deferred Expenses                                            -                     -                     
Total Assets                             19.602      13.616     31.016   19.879       41.712   27.695       45.070    46.426
Bank Overdraft                               5,176           -      8,745         -       9,505         -       5,566          4
Payables and Accured Expenses                              333                  295                   847                  1,276
Current Portion of Long-Term
Liabilities                                               -                    -                     -                  3,637
Total Current Liabilities                  5,176        333       8.745      295       9.505       847       5.566      4,917
GOJ Loan                                                   965                3,390                 7,137                 19,841
PAJ Advances                                             1,059                3,876                5,060                   9,137
Less: Current Portion of Long-Term
Liability                                            _.. ._L (                                     tlr                 3,637)
Total Long-Term Debt                          5,138      2,024       9,149    7,266      15,060   12,198       20,671    25,341
Total Liabilities                        10.314       2.357      17,894    7.561      24.565   13.045       26.237    30.259
Share Capital                                                2                    2                     2                      2
Equity Contribution:  PAJ                    8,461       9,570      10,101   10,460      11,681   11,819       12,281    12,419
Government           2,235       2,235       5,090    5,090       7,840    8,155        8,885      8,360
Capital Reserve                                              -                    -                   674                    683
Accumulated Loss                            (1.408)      (548)    12.0691  .32341   j2.L3741  (6.000)         12.333)   L5,.296
Shareholders' Ecquity                     9,288      11,259      13,122   12,318      17,147   14,650       18,833    16,168
Total Liabilities and EQuity             19.602      13.616      31.016   19,879      41.712   27.695       45.070    46.427



PART II I
Table 12
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE COMPANY. LTD.
Balance Sheet as of March 31. 1987-91
1987                 1988                 1989            1990       1991
Proj.    Actual      Proj.   Actual       Proj.   Actual       Actual     Actual
Cash and Deposits                               -      3,688       1,419    3,788       3,323    6,457     10,538      15,169
Receivables less
Accumulated Provisions                      598      2,497        632    2,304         632    4,458      3,031       4,517
Taxation Recoverable                                      419                 513                  739      1,177       1,774
Total Current Assets                                 6.604               6.605               11.654     14.746      21.460
Net Fixed Assets                           43,345     57,628      42,152   69,175      40,959   76,147     77,916    238,135
Unamortized Expenses                                   1,892                2,039                2,039      2,261       2,039
Deferred Expenses                                      6,646                    -                    -          -           -
Total Assets                            43.943      72.770     44.203   77.819      44.914   89.840    94.923    261.634
Bank Overdraft                                799           -          -        -           -        -         29           -
Payables and Accured Expenses                          3,413                2,145                1,984      1,827       1,920
Current Portion of Long-Term
Liabilities                                         12,760              17,720               25,271     32,108      40,931
Total Current Liabilities                   799     16.173          -   19.865           -   27.255     33.964      42.851
GOJ Loan                                              31,135               35,678               43,336     55,054      60,039
PAJ Advances                                          23,305               24,270               29,155     29,316      34,561
Less: Current Portion of Long-Term                  (12.7601             (17.720)             (25.2711   (32.1081   (40.9311
Liability
Total Long-Term Debt                       23,357     41,680      22,318   42,228      20,279   47,220     52,262      53,669
Total Liabilities                       24.156      57.853     22.318   62.093      20.279   74.475    86.226       96.520
Share Capital                                              13                  13                   13         13          13
Equity Contributiont  PAJ                  12,281     12,410      12,281   12,410      12,281   12,410     12,410      12,410
Government           8,885      8,881      8,885    8,881       8,885    8,881       8,881       8,881
Capital Reserve                                           683                 683                  683        683    160,937
Accumulated Loss                           11.3791    (7.0701      17191  (6.2611    (3.4691  (6.6221   (13.2901   (17.12&.
Shareholders, Eouitv                    19,787     14,917      21,885   15,726      24,635   15,365      8,697    165,114
Total Liabilities and Eouitv            43.943      72.770     44.203   77.819      44.914   89.840     94.923    261.634



PART III
Table 13
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE COMPANY. LTD.
Income Statement for Year Ended March 31, 1983-86
1983                  1984                  1985                   1986
Proj.    Actual        Proj.   Actual       Proj.   Actual         Proj.    Actual
Rental Income                                  1,623      1,016       2,752    1,052        4,168    3,510         5,727      7,178
Other Income                                       -           -           -       11           -        60            -        518
Gross Income                                1.623      1.016       2,752    1.063        4,168    3,570         5,727      7,696
Personnel                                        450         593        520       702         600    1,020           680      1,078
Management Directors' Fees                       100         108         100      112         100       118          100        137
Utilites                                          65          59          74       87          85       389           98      1,012
Repairs, Maintenance and
Garbage Disposal                               70         130         78       225          90       479          103        832
Security                                           -           -          -        1-                    17                     167
Insurance                                         50         15          68        47          93       103          118        135   t
Office and General                                88          53        100        80         115        54          132         88 ~
Legal, Audit & Professional
Fees                                           30         21          42        32          57        63           72         44
Selling and Promotion                            230        204         200       377         216       237          233        427
Miscellaneous                                                  3                   51                    76                      13
Total Operating Costs                      1,083       1.186       1,182    1.723        1.356    2.556         1.536      3.933
Operating Income                              540      (170)       1.570    (6601        2.812    1.014         4.191      3.763
Depreciation                                     282        102         503       249         800       429        1,084        694
Interest Expenses                                947        180       1,728       479       2,317       924        3,066     2,594
Provisions and Write-Offs                                     33                  228                   516                     (2)
Realized Exchange Loss
Unrealized Exchange Loss due to
JS Devaluation                                              _                    _                     _
Fixed Costs                                1.229         315       2.231       956       3.117    1.869         4.150      3.286
Net Income (Loss)                              (689)       (485)      (661)  (1,616)        (305)    (855)            41        477



PART III
Table 13
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE COMPANY. LTD.
Income Statement for Year Ended March 31. 1987-91
1987                  1988                 1989            1990        1991
Proj.    Actual       Proj.   Actual       Proj.   Actual       Actual      Actual
Rental Income                                6,859      8,840       7,818   11,519        8,426   11,544      11,590     13,377
Other Income                                      -      1,181          -       464           -       720      1,782      2,657
Gross Income                              6,859      10.021      7,818   11,983        8,426   12.264      13,372     16.034
Personnel                                      760      1,564         820    2,294          890    2,942       4,176      5,441
Management Directors' Fees                     100         134        100       156         100       141        150         158
Utilites                                       105      1,070         114        96         123    (639)       (383)         111
Repairs, Maintenance and
Garbage Disposal                             119        893        136    1,740          156    1,038       2,660         935
Security                                                   173                  389                  206         113           -
Insurance                                      130         144        136       269         143      231         343         404
Office and General                             143          94        154       115         166        90         96         162   u
Legal, Audit & Professional
Fees                                         80          89         84       155          87      350         211         259
Selling and Promotion                          251         680        272       609         294      658         904        823
Miscellaneous                                               14                  468                    64        290        1006
Total Operating Costs                     1,688      4.855         1,816       6,291   1.959         5,345  8,880      9,521
Operating Income                          5,171       5,166      6,002    5,692        6,467    6,919       4,492      6,513
Depreciation                                 1,193      1,275       1,193    1,752        1,193    2,074       2,274      6,387
Interest Expenses                            3,024      3,985       2,711    4,070       2,524    4,190       3,698       4,426
Provisions and Write-Offs                                 838                  (95)                1,001         300          68
Realized Exchange Loss                                     867                    -                     -          -           -
Unrealized Exchange Loss due to
J$ Devaluation                                         (25)                   22                    15      4,888       (531)
Fixed Cost8                               4,217      6,940       3.904    5.749        3.663    7.280      11.160     10.350
Net Income (Loss)                              954    (1,774)       2,098      (57)      2,750    (361)    (6,668)    (3,837)



PART III
Table 14
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE COMPANY. LTD.
Statement of Changes in Financial Position for Year Ended March 31, 1983-91
1983                  1984                  1985                  1986
Proj.    Actual       Proj.   Actual        Proj.   Actual        Proj.    Actual
Financial Resources were provided by;
Loss for the Year                             (689)       (485)      (661)  (2,686)        (305)  (2,765)            41       703
Prior year adjustment items not
involving outlay of working capital:                         -                    -                     - ;
Depreciation & Amortization of Fixed
Assets                                        282         102        503       248         800       429       1,084        694
Loss/(profit) Disposal of Fixed Asset                        -                    1                     -                       -
Working Capital Provided (Depleted)
by Operations                                (407)       (383)      (158)  (2,437)          495    2,336        1,125      1,397
Other Sources:
Issue of share capital                       3,525           -      4,495         -       4,330         -       1,645          -
Contributions to Equity Capital                         9,735                 3,745                4,424                     804
Long-Term Liabilities                        6,518      2,024       7,769    4,583        6,860    4,932        1,861    13,144  >
Proceeds from Disposal of Fixed Assets                       -                    -                     -                      -
Reversal of Deferred Expenses                                -                    -                     -                      -
Total Sources                                 9,636     11.376      12.106    5.891       11.685    7.020        4.631    15.345
Financial Resources were used for:
Purchase of Fixed Assets                     9,380      9,357      11,830    3,801       11,390   11,244        4,330    14,371
Development Expenses                                        23                    2                     -                      -
Valuation Fee                                                -                    -                     7
Setting up Deferred Expenses                                 -                    -                     -                       -
Total Increase/(Decrease) in Working Capital             1.995                 2.088               (4.232)                    973
Changes in Working Capital Increase/
(Decrease) in Current Assets
Receivables and Prepayments                              (145)                (143)                   547                    468
Taxation Recoverable                                         -                    -                     -                     14
Bank and Cash                                                5                  590                   187                  4,561
The Port Authority of Jamaica                           2,152                 2,262                 4,414                       -
Total Current Assets                                     2.302                 2.262                 4.414
Increase/(Decrease) in Current Liabilities
Payables and Accruals                                      307                  621                   552                    429
Bank Overdraft                                               -                    -                     -                      4
Current Portion of Long-Term Liabilities   189               -        189         -         189         -          189     3,637
Total Current Liabilities                     9.636         307     12.106       621      11.685       552       4.631      4.070
(Increase) Decrease in Working Capital           67      1.995          87    2.088          106  (4.232)          112        973



PART III
Table 14
Page 2 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE COMPANY. LTD.
Statement of Changes in Financial Position for Year Ended March 31. 1983-91
1987                  1988                  1989            1990        1991
Proj.    Actual       Proj.   Actual        Proj.   Actual       Actual      Actual
Financial Resources were provided by:
Loss for the Year                              954    (1,774)       2,098      (57)       2,750    (361)    (6,668)    (3,837)
Prior year adjustment items not involving
outlay of working capital:                                   -                  867                     -          -           -
Depreciation and Amortization of Fixed
Assets                                      1,193      1,275       1,193    1,752        1,193    2,040       2,170       6,371
Loss/(profit) Disposal of Fixed Asset                        -                  (1)                    34        105          15
Working Capital Provided (Depleted)
by Operations                                2.147      14991       3.291    2.560        3,943    1.713    (4.393)        2.549
Other Sources:
Issue of share capital                           -         13           -         -           -         -          -            -
Contributions to Equity Capital                           512
Long-Term Liabilities                        (967)     16,338         201       548                4,992       5,042       1,408
Proceeds from Disposal of Fixed Assets                     27                     1                     -          -           _
Reversal of Deferred Expenses                                -                6,646                     -          -
Total Sources                                 1.180     16.390       3.492    9,755        3.943    6.705         648      3. 957
Financial Resources were used for:
Purchase of Fixed Assets                         -    20,895            -   13,300            -    9,046       4,043       6,352
Development Expenses                                         -                  147                     -        222       (222)
Valuation Fee                                                -                    -                           -       
Setting up Deferred Expenses                            6,646                     _
Total Increase/(Decrease) in Working Capital           111.50)               (3.692)               12.341)    (3.616)    (2.173)
Changes in Working Capital Increase/(Decrease)
in Current Assets
Receivables and Prepayments                           (1,356)                 (193)                2,154    (1,427)        1,486
Taxation Recoverables                                     404                    95                   226        438         597
Bank and Cash                                         (1,655)                    99                2,669       4,082       4,631
The Port Authority of Jamaica                                -                    -                     -           -           -
Total Current Assets                                        105                    1                 5.049      3.093       6.714
Increase/(Decrease) in Current Liabilities
Payables and Accruals                                   2,137               (1,267)                 (162)      (157)          93
Bank Overdraft                                             (4)                                          -         29        (29)
Current Portion of Long-Term Liabilities 1,114          9,122       2,039    4,960        2,039    7,551       6,836       8,823
Total Current Liabilities                     1.180     11.255       2.039    3.693        2.039    7.389       6.709       8.887
(Increase) Decrease in Working Capital           66   111.150)          2A  (3.692)            -  12.341)    (3.616)    l2.173)



- 36 -                                                     Part III
Table 15
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE
Financial Rate of Retum Based on Actual Investment Costs
(Amounts In Thousands of Jamaican Dollars)
1982   1983    1984    1985      1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991       1992       1993
Investment /1                 1,593   1,997   3,766  10.288   14.298  20,399   13,040   8,709   3,649    1,962        0          0
Operating Costs 12               0       0     315   1,750    2,130   2,880   3.757   3,168   4,768   5.788    7,300         8.080
Income /3                        0       0     610   2,209    4.077   6,215   8,948   9,313  10,029  12,026   16,243    17,947
Net Boneftt Stream Curmnt J.   -1,593  -1,997  -3.471   -9,829  -12,331  -17,064   -7,849   -2,564   1,612   4,276    8,943  9,867
Net 8enefit Stream Constant JO  -1,593  -1,790  -2,443  -5,485   -5.995  -3,305  -3,305    -944    487     855    1,789      1.973
Memo Itmnu
Price Index, 1985 = 100 /4   0.558  0.623   0.793   1.000    1.225   1.225    1.325    1.515   1.847   2.790    2.790        2.790
Price Index, 1982 = 100       1.000   1.116   1.421    1.792    2.195   2.195   2.375   2.715   3.309        6        6          6
Annual Inflation                [-I 11.650  27.290  26.100    6.700   6.700   8.200  14.300  21.900  61.100          1-]        H
Projected Not Bensfits /6    -2,647  -7,635  -8,766  -6,860    3,452   3,452   3.452   3,452   3,452   3,452    3,452        3,452
1994   1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003    2004
Investment /1                    0       0       0        0        0       0        0       0        0       0   39.000
Operating Costs 12           8,500  8,500   8,500   8,500    8,500   8,500   8,500   8,500   8,500   8,500    8,500
Income /3                   21,195 21,195  21,195  21,195   21,195  21,195  21,195  21,195  21,195  21,195   21,195
Not Benefit Stream CurentJs  12,695  12,695  12,695  12,695   12,695  12,695   12,695  12,695  12,695   12,695   51.695
Net Benefit Stream Constant JO   2,539  2.539   2,539   2,539    2,539   2,539   2,539   2,539   2,539   2,539   41,539
Memo Iteme
Price Index, 1986 = 100 /4    2.790  2.790   2.790   2.790    2.790   2.790   2.790   2.790   2.790   2.790    2.790
Price Index, 1982 = 100          5       5       5        5        5       5        5       5        5       5        5
Annual Inflation                 F)    -1    l-l  [-]         1-   1 [-l           1-1      1-1 I-   -       -1      [1-
Projected Net Benemfts 16    3,452  3.452   3,452   3,452    3,452   3,452   3,452    3,452   3,452    3,452   19,827
Occupancy Assumption       1992 - 74.11 %   1993 - 80%
Financial Rate of Retum = 7%    Projected Financial Rate of Retum at Appraisal = 9.62%
Notes:
1. Actual Investment Figures based on Kingston Free Zone Company (KFZC) financed data.
2 Estimated marginal Operating Costs includes maintenance and repairs.
3. Estimated Incremental Income based on KFZC's financial data.
4. 1983-1984 CPI from Intemational Financial Statistics; 1985-1991 CPI from Statistical Institute of Jamaica.
5. Projected Net Benefits from Staff Appraisal Report.
6. Useful life of buildings is assumed to be 40 years.



-37 -Part III
- 37 -                            ~~~~~~~~~Table 16
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE l!
Economic Rate of Return (Revised Estimate)
Net Incremental   Adjustments                     Net Incremental        Net Incremental
Income       Exchange Rate/1  Incremental      Benefits After       Benefits Reflecting
Year  (Constant J$'0001    Costs  Benefits    Wages         Adiustments       Opportunitv Cost of Land
1982            (1,593)                            l-]            (1,593)                     (1,593)
1983            (1,790)   (204)       I-1          I-]            (2,017)                    (9,517) jb
1984            (2,443)   (228)       86         482              (2,103)                     (2,103)
1985            (5,485)   (864)    247         2,023              (4,079)                     (4,079)
1986            (5,995)   (752)    371         3,036              (3,340)                     (3,340)
1987            (3,305)   (523)    566         7,1 94              3,932                      3,932
1988            (3,305)   (681)    754         5,339               2,107                      2,107
1 989             (944)   (284)    686         4,351               3,809                      3,809
1990               487    (1 32)    606        2,915               3,876                      3,876
1991               855                         1,669               2,524                      2,524
1992             1,789                         1,632               3,421                      3,421
1 993            1,973                         1,632               3,605                      3,605
1994             2,539                         1,632               4,171                      4,171
1995             2,539                         1,632               4,171                      4,171
1996             2,539                         1,632               4,171                      4,171
1 997            2,539                         1,632               4,171                      4,171
1998             2,539                         1,632               4,171                      4,171
1999             2,539                         1,632               4,171                      4,171
2000             2,539                          1,632              4,171                      4,171
2001             2,539                          1,632              4,171                      4,171
2002             2,539                          1,632              4,171                      4,171
2003             2,539                          1,632              4,171                      4,171
2004            41,539                          1,632             43,171                     50,671 /b
Rate of Return             20%    Rate of Return            14%
a/    Re-estimated on the basis of (i) estimated actual net incremental cash flow for 1982-91
and revised estimates of net incremental cash flow for 1 992 and onwards;
(ii) use of the same 20% overvaluation factor as in the appraisal to derive the shadow exchange rate
for 1982-1990 (after which Jamaica liberized the exchange rate); and (iii) net employment effect as
explained in Annex 1.
b/    Includes estimated opportunity cost of land.



- 38 -
Annex I
Page 1 of 2
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Project Results
Appraisal Estimated
Estimate   Actual
a)    Internal (Financial)
Rate of Return         8%-10%   7%  (8%)]/
b)    Economic Rate of Return   26%    20% (21 %)L
Underlying Assumptions for "Estimated" Actual
A.    Internal Financial Rate of Return (IFRR)
1.   Incremental Cash Flow
(a)   No rental income from the project was assumed for the years 1982 and 1983
in the absence of relevant data and to be on the conservative side.
(b)   For the years 1984-1991, rental income associated with the project has been
estimated by subtracting the rent paid by firms operating in the KFZ before the
project was implemented from KFZC's reported annual rental income.
(c)   For the years 1992-1994, rental income has been estimated as follows: the
assumed occupancy rate of SFBs financed under the project is 60% for 1992,
67% for 1993, and 78% for 1994. The rental income was calculated applying
a rental rate of $2.60 per sq. ft. for 87,000 sq. ft. $3. 10 per sq. ft. for
210,000 sq. ft. based on existing contracts and $3.00 for the remainder of the
factory space.
(d)   For the years 1995 and onwards, rental income has been estimated on the basis
of 80% occupancy rate''. The same distribution of rental rates noted above
has been applied.
2.    Incremental Cost
(a)   Investment Costs. Investment costs are based on the KFZC's Statement of
Uses and Sources of Funds for the period 1983-1991.
Figures in brackets represent the re-estimated IFRR and ERR based on the
85% occupancy rate from 1994 and onwards as suggested in Part II.



- 39 -
Annex I
Page 2 of 2
(b)   Incremental Operating Costs. Variable costs associated with the project have
been estimated, taking into account the increase in occupied space. Fixed
costs have been allocated to the project, taking into account the factory spaces
financed under the project.
B. Economic Rate of Return (ERR)
1.    The economic rate of return (ERR) for the KFZ project (which essentially is an
enclave) was estimated, based on the net transfer of funds and resources between the KFZ
and the rest of Jamaican economy. For purposes of ERR calculation, incremental costs and
benefits are adjusted upward to reflect the shadow price of foreign exchange (please see para.
2 below) and labor costs (para. 3 below), and the opportunity cost of land (para. 5 below).
2.    Shadow Price of Foreign Exchange. The appraisal assumed a constant exchange rate
of US$1 = J$1.78 for the project implementation period, while the PCR utilized the actual
exchange rates during the project implementation period. Furthermore, the appraisal used a
20% overvaluation factor to derive the shadow exchange rate in order to account for the
scarcity of foreign exchange in Jamaica. The PCR used the same foreign exchange
overvaluation factor for the years 1982-1990, after which no overvaluation is assumed,
reflecting liberalized exchange rate regime since 1991.
3.    Incremental Wages. In calculating the total incremental wages as a result of the
project, an average wage rate was derived by taking actual wages paid by KFZ tenants and
dividing this number by the total number of employees for that year. The shadow wage rate
is assumed to be 0.75 times the actual wage".
4.    The PCR used actual employment figures for the years 1983-1992. From 1993
onwards, employment was assumed to be constant for both the KFZC and KFZ.
5.    Opportunity Cost of Land. Based on discussions with KFZC management, the
opportunity cost of the land is estimated at J$7.5 million in 1983. The ERR calculation in
the SAR did not take into account the opportunity cost of land.
6.    Re-estimated ERRs. On the basis of the methodology explained above, it is currently
estimated that the project would yield an ERR of 20%. Should the opportunity cost of land
be taken into account for the ERR calculation, the revised ERR would be lower, about 14%.
The methodology in the SAR used a somewhat different treatment for shadow
price of wages which tends to elevate the estimated ERR.



