Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3442-JM
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
JAMAICA
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
February 25, 1982
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and ,may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Through April 1977              US$1.000 = J$0.909              J$1.000 = US$1.100
April 1977 - May 1978                 - Dual exchange rat,s system -
May 1978                        US$1.000 = J$1.550              J$1.000 = US$0.645
December 1978                   US$1.000 = J$1.695              J$1.000 = US$0.590
May 1979 - January 1982         US$1.000 = J$1.783              J$1.000 = US$0.561
LIST OF ACRONYMS
BOJ           -  Bank of Jamaica
CARICOM       -  Caribbean Common Market
EDF           -  Export Development Fund Jamaica Ltd.
EEC           -  European Economic Community
EPZ           -  Export Processing Zone
ERR           -  Economic Rate of Return
FIRR          -  Financial Internal Rate of Return
JIDC          -  Jamaica Industrial Development Corporat:ion
JNEC          -  Jamaica National Export Corporation
JNIC          -  Jamaica National Investment Corporation
JPSC          -  Jamaica Public Service Company
K'MR          -  Kingston Metropolitan Region
KFZ           -  Kingston Free Zone
KFZC          -  Kingston Free Zone Company Ltd.
NPA           -  National Planning Agency
PAJ           -  Port Authority of Jamaica
SFB           -  Standard Factory Building
TA            -  Technical Assistance
UNIDO         -  United Nations Industrial Development Cirganization



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND KINGSTON URBAN SETTING
A.  -The Manufacturing Sector ...................................    1
Growth and Structure ...................................    1
Exports ........          , ..............................   2
Prospects.                                                     3
B. Kingston Urban Setting.                                             6
General.                                                       6
Population ...........                       .............   6
Employment.                                                    6
II. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
A. Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ).                                     7
General.                                                       7
Port Traffic.                                                  7
Past Financial Performance.                                    7
Management and Administration.                                 8
B. Kingston Free Zone (KFZ).                                            8
General.                                                       8
KFZC Law.                                                      9
KFZC Subsidiary.                                               9
KFZC Organization .10
Boundaries of the KFZ .10
Operating Rules and Regulations .10
Employment Conditions.                                        11
III. MARKETING ASPECTS
Comparative Advantages of the KFZ .11
Objectives .12
Marketing Strategy .12
Target Markets .13
Methodology .13
Past Performance .14
Prospects for the Future .15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Jamaica in December 1980. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Parker of the Latin
America and the Caribbean Regional Office and C. Goderez (consultant). Subsequently,
the appraisal was updated by Mr. Parker during several follow-up missions, the most
recent in December 1981.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.      General  Description  ............                       ............................                 16
B.  Detailed Features . ..........................................  17
Land  Development   .              ..........................................                         17
Land  Use  Allocation  ............                      ............................                 17
Roads  ...................................................                                            18
Utilities  and  Services  ..........                       ...........................                18
Liquid Waste ...............................................  19
Power ..................................................19
SFB Construction ........................... ................   19
SFB Design ................................. .............  19
Technical Assistance and Training .......... ................  20
Project Management and Execution Schedule ...................  21
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Cost .............................................  21
Financing Plan .............................................    22
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Approach to Analysis .......................................  22
KFZ  Past  Performance  .               ......................................                        23
KFZ  Forecast  Performance  ...........                        ........................               23
PAJ  Financial  Forecast  .                 ....................................                      25
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND PROJECT RISKS
A.     Economic  Rate  of  Return                      ....................................                   27
B.      Other  Economic  Benefits                   ................. ...................                     27
C.      Project  Risks  ..............................................                                        28
VIII. PROPOSED LOAN
General ..............................................  28
Procurement ..............                                                                             28
Retroactive Financing ......................   30
Disbursements ..............                                                                           30
IX. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements ..............  31
Recommendation ............... 31
ANNEXES



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
LIST OF ANNEXES
Page No.
ANNEX I
T - 1   PAJ Comparative Movement of Cargo Ships 1969 - 1981 ......  32
T - 2   PAJ Comparative Movement Wharf Revenue Tons ....        ..........  33
ANNEX II
T - 1   Construction Status Report ...............................   34
T - 2   Companies Registered and Operating as of December 1980 ....   35
T - 3   Number of Companies Registered but not yet in
Operation ..............................................   36
ANNEX III
Proposed Outline - Operational Rules and Regulations of the KFZ ..   37
ANNEX IV
T - 1   Technical Assistance and Training Program 1982-85 ........  38
T - 2   Capital Costs and Scheduled Disbursements, 1981-85 .......  39
T - 3   Capital Cost Estimates ...................................   40
T - 4   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan .   41
ANNEX V
T - 1   PAJ - Income Statement ...................................   42
T - 2   PAJ - Sources and Uses of Funds ..........................   43
T - 3   PAJ - Balance Sheet ......................................   44
T - 4   KFZ - Pro forma Income Statement  ........................  45
T - 5   KFZ - Pro forma Sources and Uses of Funds .................  46
T - 6   KFZ - Pro forma Balance Sheet ............................  47
ANNEX VI
T - 1   Internal Financial Rate of Return .........................  48
T - 2   Economic Rate of Return Calculation ......................  49
ANNEX VII
T - 1   PAJ Organizational Chart - 1981 ..........................   50
T - 2   Proposed KFZ Organizational Chart ........................   51
ANNEX VIII
Project File ...........       ..........................................   52
MAPS



a



I. THE MANUFACTURING SECTOR AND KINGSTON URBAN SETTING
A. The Manufacturing Sector
Growth and Structure
1.01      Through 1976  the manufacturing sector grew more rapidly than the
overall economy and by that year reached 18.5% of GDP, compared to only 11.5%
in 1950. Following the sharp deterioration of the balance of payments in
1976, however, the sector was hampered by shortages of raw materials and spare
parts, reduced consumer demand caused by the general economic slowdown, and a
virtual halt of investment activity of the private sector. Sector output
declined at an average annual rate of 7.5% in real terms in the five years
through 1980, a much steeper decline than the 3.6% annual decrease in GDP. In
1980 , manufacturing contributed only 15.3% of GDP, and sector employment was
80,000 or 11% of the employed labor force, down from a high of 81,000 in 1974.
Preliminary figures for 1981 indicate that this declining trend has been
reversed with a growth of about 2% for the sector's output.
1.02      The current structure of Jamaica's manufacturing sector and its
characteristics are the result of incentive and trade policies which, since
the introduction in 1956 of the Industrial Incentives Law, have been directed
at establishing and protecting domestic industry. The substantive elements of
the Incentives Law prevail to this day. They allow Jamaican manufacturers to
import capital goods, raw materials and intermediate goods without duty, and
further encourage the use of capital goods through generous tax write-offs
after a ten year income tax holiday. The manufacturer is further protected
by the exclusion of competing imports without the application of any meaningful
efficiency criteria, when there is sufficient installed capacity to supply the
domestic market. Up until February 1982 the list of restricted imports included
334 items, of which 26 were raw materials and intermediate goods, 36 were
capital goods, and the balance consumer goods.
1.03      The quantitative import restrictions have resulted in very high
effective levels of protection to domestic industry. Estimates developed in
1979 indicate that effective protection levels (excess of value added at
domestic prices, including the effect of protection on locally manufactured
inputs, over value added at world prices) average 68% for the sector as a
whole. Furthermore, firms exporting to CARICOM enjoy an effective level of
protection of, on average, 19%. In the presence of quantitative restrictions
tariffs have played a relatively small protectionist role. In the past,
tariffs in Jamaica have served primarily the revenue purpose. The overall
levels are rather moderate averaging only 22%, and in recent years their role
as a source of fiscal revenue has been significantly reduced. At present,
most manufacturing firms can import their inputs totally exempt of tariff
duties or any other tax.
1.04      The industrialization policies and incentives have resulted in
significant distortions within the manufacturing sector. The system of
incentives encouraged the development of a mix of capital intensive industries,
and many so-called "screwdriver" industries performing final assembly or
processing operations with very low domestic value added. Paradoxically,
the policy of import substitution through the encouragement and protection of
domestic industry has resulted in the creation of a highly import dependent
manufacturing sector that is exacerbating, rather than helping Jamaica's



-2-
balance of payments' problein. By providing incentives in the form of duty-free
imports of intermediate goods, efforts to develop backward linkages where
comparative advantages mighlt have existed, or developed, were effectively
discouraged. Currently, thes direct import content of domestic manufacturers
is about 43% of sales. For that portion of manufacturing production that is
exported, the direct import content is 46%, and over 50% when indirect imports
are included. Because of the high cost structure of locally manufactured
goods, products with a relatively lower content of local inputs have been more
able to compete outside of Jamaica, and in particular outside of CARICOM.
Also, to be competitive, most exports have had to be priced below their local
levels, which further increased their import content relative to sales.
1.05      The high levels of effective protection of the manufacturing sector
also cause high profits, inefficiencies, cost penalties associated with
small-scale production, and unutilized capacity. Despite the limited size of
the Jamaican market, the generous industrialization incentives encouraged
investments to manufacture the vast majority of finished goods consumed
locally. The resulting industrial base is fragmented into many small and
inefficient producers. In addition, the sector is operating at about 60% of
capacity on a one and a half shift basis due to the contraction of the local
market; the past inability of many firms to maintain or increase their export
markets because of the shortage of foreign exchange; and more recently their
inability to obtain foreign exchange to overhaul and mcdernize their capacity
which for many years was not properly maintained. The net effect is a relatively
high cost structure for Jamaican manufactured products, and inordinately high
profit margins per unit produced or invested, necessary to obtain reasonable
financial rates of return on investment.
Exports
1.06      In recent years exports of non-traditional manufactured goods 1/
have represented 10% to 12% of total Jamaican merchandise exports. Manufac-
tured goods exports increased from US$50 million in 1972 to US$73 million in
1976, or 10% yearly in nominal terms, but then remained. stagnant through 1978.
The lack of growth between 1976 and 1978 was mainly due to the over-valuation
of the Jamaican dollar, the substantial increase in wages during the six years
prior to 1978, and the shortage of foreign exchange which made it difficult
for exporters to obtain necessary imported inputs. In 1979, however, manufac-
tured exports increased 32% to US$95 million mainly as a result of: (i) the
96% adjustment in the exchange rate between April 1977 and May 1979; (ii) the
decrease in real wages brought about by the Government's economic stabiliza-
tion program; (iii) the granting of some incentives to exporters, including
priority consideration in the issuance of import licenses to manufacturers
that received "Certified Exporter" status in early 1979; and (iv) the assurance
of foreign exchange availability for the import of inpuLts made possible by the
Export Development Fund (EDF), which was funded with the proceeds of Bank Loan
1715-JM approved by the Board on May 30, 1979. In 1980, export growth slowed
down to about 8-10% due to the further deterioration oi the economic situation
1/   Excluding petroleum products, sugar and molasses, and alumina, all
of which are normally classed as manufactured.



-3-
and political climate. During the year manufacturers were plagued by an
extreme shortage of foreign exchange, labor strikes and disruptions in basic
services such as power and transportation. Preliminary figures indicate that
export growth resumed at a rate in excess of 10% in 1981 in response to an
improved business climate.
1.07      Between 1972 and 1978 there was a marked shift in the composition of
exporting firms and manufactured export goods. Beverages, tobacco products,
paper products, furniture, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, metal mechanics, and
mechanical and electrical equipment registered real growth, while textiles and
clothing suffered a substantial decline. The latter reflects the limited
scope of past exports incentives. The Export Industry Encouragement Law of
1956, amended in 1960 and 1969, contained the same set of basic incentives as
the Industrial Incentives Law, but in addition provided exemptions from all
indirect taxes to firms exporting 100% of their production volume to non-CARICOM
markets. This resulted in the establishment of some 150 so-called "export
enclave" firms performing assembly operations mostly in the garments field.
Because of the wage increases and overvaluation of the currency, by 1978 only
30 of these firms remained. The most affected subsector was textiles and
clothing, which decreased from 21% (US$10.4 million) of total manufactured
exports in 1972 to only 6% (US$4.4 million) by 1978. In 1979, there was a
notable recovery of this subsector (to US$7.8 million) as those 100% export
firms that continued operating in Jamaica responded to the currency devaluation
and decrease in real wages.
1.08      Until 1979, practically all new export volume was to the small but
protected CARICOM market. Between 1972-1978 exports to CARICOM increased from
US$17 million to US$39 million, while exports to the rest of the world stag-
nated at US$33 million. In 1979, exports to CARICOM further increased to
US$57 million, but exports to other markets increased to US$38 million,
exceeding for the first time in many years their prior year's level in both
current and real terms. The growth of export volume outside of CARICOM in
1979, was made possible by the increase in the international competitiveness
of Jamaican products and a growing awareness of the Government and private
sector about the need for developing new markets beyond CARICOM. The success
of Jamaica's new export drive will very much depend on the willingness and
ability of both the Government and the private sector to adopt policy measures
and undertake investments in market development and new plant and equipment,
all of which are necessary to make a higher volume of the new exports to non
CARICOM markets possible.
Prospects
1.09      To achieve its economic development and growth objectives the
Government has given high priority to increasing exports of manufactured
goods, and to development of deeper and wider linkages within the sector and
with other sectors to stimulate the economy and to reduce the import depen-
dence of manufacturing. In the short term -- two to three years -- if a
continuous and reliable source of foreign exchange is made available to
exporters, which is one of the main purposes of the Bank's EDF II loan,
annual export growth of about 30% can be achieved as exporters continue
their growth pattern in CARICOM, and as they make wider and deeper inroads
into the new markets beyond CARICOM.



- 4 -
1.10      However, to achieve a sustained 25% to 35% yearly  growth beyond
1984, important changes to the industrial infrastructure and incentive systems
will be required. During the next two years it will be necessary to improve
significantly the cost competitiveness of Jamaican products with a comparative
advantage outside of CARICOM, and to develop the marketing know-how and
managerial drive necessary to penetrate new international markets. This task
will require, among others:  (i) policy adjustments to redress the imbalances
in incentives which favor production for the local mark-et over exports to
international markets; (ii) expansion of the exportable product mix by better
identification of the country's comparative advantages; (iii) investment in
new plant and equipment for products with a comparative advantage, particularly
outside of CARICOM; (iv) expansion and training of the existing managerial
pool, particularly in the fields of export marketing, c.ost accounting and
industrial engineering; and (v) further reorientation cf the private sector,
which to date has been accustomed to relatively well protected low volume and
high margin sales, to larger volume cost efficient prod[uction for the export
market.
1.11      The Government is aware of the sectoral requirements for rapid
short-term export gains and sustained long-term export development. During
the last three years the Government took a number of substantive steps designed
to support its export promotion policy, and entered into a continuing dialogue
with the private sector to assure that new policies were compatible with the
needs of exporters. The most significant short-term steps taken were the
adoption of realistic exchange rate and wage policies. Also, the Jamaican
National Export Corporation (JNEC), which provides export marketing services
to local firms in the private sector, was restructured and substantially
strengthened. The creation of the EDF, supported by Bank Loan 1715-JM, and
the Certified Exporter Status scheme has helped eliminate the foreign exchange
bottleneck that had been holding back export growth.
1.12      The government is planning to revitalize its institutions in the
manufacturing sector (eg. JNEC, EDF, KFZ, etc) with a view to increasing
exports as fast as possible. An on going study of these institutions which
would be financed in part by the proposed technical assistance loan is
expected to provide the basis for decisions to be adopt.ed within the next
year on the role of each one and on the institutional changes that may be
needed in the sector. In the meantime, the Government has established a
National Development Bank to provide financing to the sector in the future
and created the Jamaica National Investment Promotion Company to improve
service to potential foreign investors and to eliminatE competition among the
agencies.
1.13      For the longer term development of non-traditional exports the
Government agrees that the imbalance in incentives offered producers for
the domestic market and those offered producers for export should be re-
dressed. The Government considers, however, that acticns to be taken in this
area cannot be precipitous. Given the significance of manufacturers for
the domestic market as important employers of labor, and the current high



- 5 -
unemployment rate, the authorities believe that it would be difficult to take
actions which would result in further layoffs, unless it becomes clear that
prospective export growth can at least compensate for the negative short term
effects. Also, to the extent that incentives are changed through tax measures,
or the payment of cash subsidies, the revenue implications would have to be
consistent with the Government's overall economic program. However as part
of the proposed SAL, the Government has already removed 64 items from its
restricted list of imports and has agreed to a detailed schedule for the
elimination of the remaining quantitative restrictions on imports during the
next five years. Agreement has been reached on terms of reference for the
preparation of an action program on export incentives and further agreement
on such a time phased plan would be one of the measures necessary to release
the second tranche of the SAL. Specific programs are also being prepared to
rationalize important industrial subsectors such as garments, shoes and con-
struction materials and satisfactory progress on these plans would also be
a condition for release of the second tranche. At the request of the Govern-
ment a portion of the technical assistance funds available under Loan 1715-JM,
has been reallocated to cover the expenses of internationally recruited
experts who are assisting in the development of the industrial reform package.
1.14      The KFZ project is seen by the Government as another instrument of
its export promotion strategy. As such it is designed to (i) attract and
reassure foreign investors; (ii) give domestic industries a demonstration of
the country's export potential; (iii) create backward linkages to domestic
supply of materials and components; (iv) provide training and experience in
technical skills, management; international marketing and quality control for
local employees; and (v) stimulate or facilitate technical/financial contacts
and collaboration with foreign firms.
1.15      In most cases free zone firms are not expected to enjoy substantial
advantages over "domestic" exporters in Jamaica, since the latter can import
capital goods, raw materials and intermediate goods without duty. While the
operations of "domestic" exporters in some industries may presently be limited
by quantitative restrictions on imports of goods also manufactured locally,
the lifting of these restrictions would be part of the reform package
refered to in para. 1.13. Domestic exporters have assurance of foreign
exchange through the EDF and are granted tax holidays on export earnings for
up to fifteen years. Due to its pricing policy (para 6.04), firms renting
space within the KFZ will not pay rents which are significantly less than
alternative space outside the zone. In general it is expected that foreign
firms will prefer to locate in the zone for other reasons. These would
include (i) a higher degree of physical security; (ii) reduced amount of paper
work; (iii) proximity to port facilities and faster clearance of goods; and
(iv) a way for foreign investors to become familiar with Jamaica with fewer
perceived risks.



-6-
B.   Kingston Urban Setting
General
1.16      The Kingston Metrcpolitan Region (KMR) covers a total land area
of 250 sq miles. The region is situated in the southeast portion of the
island, and includes Kingston, the capital city and largest urban center,
and the city of Spanish Town, approximately 12 kilometers west of the KFZ.
Historically, the KMR developed outward from the old waterfront area to the
southeast of the KFZ (see Map 1). About 44% of KMR's population lives in this
primarily low income, high density area known as south Kingston. The main
industrial zone, of which the KFZ is a part, is concentrated along the more
recently developed waterfront on the southwestern edge of the area.
Population
1.17      The KMR was estimated 1/ to have a population of 743,000 in 1980.
During the period 1960-80 its share of Jamaica's total population has grown
from 26.5% to 34% at present. The underlying growth rate for the KMR has
averaged slightly less than 3% p.a. Migration from the country side seems
to have accounted for about half of this growth. The most dramatic growth
has occurred in the Portmore-Braeton area immediately west of the KFZ.
Development of this-area began after it was linked to downtown by a bridge
and causeway system built as part of the new port-KFZ expansion. The popu-
lation of this area (low and middle income) grew from zero in 1970 to an
estimated 92,000 in 1980. The National Planning Agency (NPA) projects the
population of the entire KMR to grow at 3.5% p.a. during the period 1980-90.
Employment
1.18      In 1980 it was estimated 1/ that the KMR had a labor force of 345,000,
implying that 46% of the population were economically active. Approximately
27% of the labor force or 94,000 are estimated to be unemployed. The largest
group of unemployed, about 51,000, are located in the south Kingston area
where the unemployment rate reaches 32%. Though there are no hard figures on
the distribution of unemployment by age groups or occupation in the KMR,
national figures show that the highest unemployment rates are among the young.
In the age groups 14-19 the unemployment rate is 58%, and 39% among 20-24 year
olds. For those over 24 years old unemployment runs at; 30%.
1.19      Studies by the NPA 2/ estimate that in 1978, about half of the
workers employed in the waterfront industrial zone, which includes KFZ, lived
in the south Kingston area and the next largest group (120%) lived in the
Portmore-Braeton area. Due to its location, the employment benefits resulting
from the KFZ project are therefore expected to accrue primarily to South
Kingston, the area with the most chronic unemployment problem in the KMR. The
types of light assembly operations envisaged for the KFZ would also offer jobs
to those younger age groups with the highest unemployment rates.
1/   Kingston Metropolitan Region Urban Transport Study, draft Final Report
12/19/80.
2/   Urban Growth and Management Study, NPA, May 1978.



7-
II.  INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
A.   Port Authority of Jamaica (PAJ)
General
2.01      The PAJ is a statutory body, incorporated in Jamaica by Law 13 of
1959. Its principal objective is to provide and operate such port facilities
in Jamaica as the government may require. In addition, it regulates the use
of all other ports in the country. At present it operates only the transship-
ment terminal in Kingston and cruise ship piers in Montego Bay and Port
Antonio. The general cargo berths in Kingston and the nine other ports which
include special purpose bulk commodity handling facilities are privately
owned. About 90% of PAJ-s assets are located in the port of Kingston. As
shown in Map 2, they include (i) the transshipment container terminal with
four berths, four high speed container cranes and related transport equipment,
(ii) its equity investment in the Kingston Free Zone Company Ltd. (KFZC),
(iii) two tug boats and other harbor service craft, (iv) approximatelv 100
acres of filled land which is treated as a "Land Bank" for future expansion.
With these facilities, and the seven privately owned general cargo berths, the
Port of Kingston is considered the finest in the West Indies. In general PAJ
prefers to act as a landlord and relies on private enterprise to operate its
facilities and equipment. Private operators are paid on a cost plus basis
with the PAJ receiving the net revenues. Ships also pay port dues and wharfage
fees to cover the cost of dredged channels and wharfs.
Port Traffic
2.02      As shown in Annex I, Table 1, the tonnage of general cargo handled
by the Kingston port, peaked in 1972 at 1.3 million tons and has declined
steadily thereafter to .505 million tons in 1980 with an increase to .715
million in 1981. This drop in traffic is primarily a reflection of the
decline in the local economy rather than a diversion to containers, since
domestic container tonnage declined from 402,878 tons to 258,110 tons over
the 1972-80 period. The decline in domestic general cargo was balanced after
1975 by a dramatic increase in container tonnage at the transshipment terminal
whose traffic volume is not linked directly to the demands of the domestic
economy. Transshipment container traffic grew from 173,686 tons in 1975 to
1.12 million tons in 1981. As a result, total cargo handled has increased
slightly over the last five years.
Past Financial Performance
2.03      Despite the static situation in Kingston's total cargo movement,
the PAJ was able to more than triple its revenues in J$ during fiscal years
1978-81 as shown in Annex V Tables 1-3. This was due to the success of the
transshipment terminal, and because approximately 70% of PAJ's revenues are
collected in US$ so that its cash flow benefitted from the devaluation of
the J$ during this period. Net income before non cash devaluation losses
increased from J$2.6 million in FY 1978 to J$3.7 million in FY 1981.



- 8 -
Over this period long term debt which is almost completely in foreign
exchange 1/ increased from J$13 million to J$48.8 due to the devaluation,
and in order to finance the construction of the transshlipment terminal
and the purchase of tug boats. At the same time PAJ's debt service cover-
age ratio did not drop below 1.35. Equity increased from 16% of total
capital and liabilities 2/ to 29% despite the devaluation losses, because
they were more than balanced by revaluations in assets.
Management and Administration
2.04      Overall policy of the PAJ is set by its Boarc of Directors which
has 7 members representing various interested governmerLt agencies and private
sector organizations. The Board meets about once a morLth. Its general
manager is PAJ's chief executive officer. PAJ has about 220 permanent staff.
PAJ relies on a small engineering department with only 3 professionals,
preferring to use consulting engineers to design and supervise most construction
work.  The administration department has 38 professionals, including two
internal auditors.
2.05      Accounts are kept manually on an accrual basis, and PAJ has expe-
rienced delays in determining its receivables and payables. Asset registers
are not complete and because of long delays in posting some fixed asset
values, work in progress, and depreciation are sometimes incorrectly stated.
PAJ management is aware of the inadequacies of its accciunting system and is
taking steps with the help of its external auditors, Tcuche Ross, and consul-
tants, Coopers Lybrand, to correct them. The KFZ Law requires PAJ to keep separate
accounts for KFZ, and it has started to do this on a fcirmal basis for the
fiscal year beginning April 1, 1981. KFZC and PAJ have agreed to maintain
adequate separate accounts for each.  It was also agreed that PAJ's and KFZC's
accounts will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank.
B. Kingston Free Zone (KFZ) 3/
General
2.06      PAJ's institutional objectives are not limited to merely handling
cargo, but embrace the broader objective of stimulating the commerce and
1/   The foreign currency risk is presently broken down into 60% US$, 30%
Norweigian Kr and 10% British i.
2/   Excluding "Land Bank" debt of J$ 15.8 million which was incurred by PAJ
in purchasing land for future development. The government has agreed with
PAJ to service this debt until the acreage is developed and producing
revenues.
3/   A distinction must be drawn between the KFZ which is a geographic area
defined by a law (para. 2.07) which applies to all companies doing
business within or occupying this area, and the KEZC which is a company
created by the PAJ to operate the KFZ within the limits of its law.



- 9 -
industry which ultimately must generate its shipping traffic. For this
reason PAJ created the KFZ in 1976 on land bordering the transshipment
terminal (see map 2). The project was designed to implement the
recommendations of a UNIDO-sponsored feasibility study completed the year
before. Although 115 acres of land are available for use by the KFZ,
initial development was limited to 14 acres as a first market-testing
phase.  Using its own funds and those borrowed from the Jamaica National
Investment Corporation (JNIC), the Port Authority as of the end of FY81   2
had constructed 28 standard factory buildings (SFBs) totalling 176,000 ft
*        of factory space for 18 tenants, most of whom are ligMt manufacturing
industries. Another 7 SFBs totalling about 45,000 ft are presently completing
construction for five tenants.
KFZ Law
2.07      In February 1980, Jamaica's legislature passed the Kingston Export
Free Zone Act which in effect conferred de lure status on a de facto state of
affairs.  The law authorized PAJ to administer, control, operate and manage
the Free Zone. In doing so PAJ must keep separate, audited accounts for the
KFZ and borrow funds as necessary. The law allows for the duty free import
and export of goods to and from the zone. Goods from the zone can be exported
into Jamaica with the consent of the Ministry of Industry, and in such cases
duty would not be charged on local value added. Companies operating in the
Zone may transfer funds in and out of the Zone without restrictions, though
they must get the permission of the Bank of Jamaica to borrow from local banks.
The salaries of Jamaican employees must be paid in local currency.  As long as
a company is located in the KFZ its profits related to such operation are
granted total relief from Jamaican income tax.
KFZC Subsidiary
2.08      In February 1982, PAJ created a limited liability company, Kingston
Free Zone Company Ltd., (KFZC), to operate the Zone as its subsidiary and
agent in carrying out its responsibilities under the law. All PAJ assets in
the Zone have been transferred to the new company by means of a 99 year lease
for a nominal rent. KFZC has recorded these assets at book value. PAJ's equity
in the new company presently totals J$7.0 million. PAJ's present ownership of
100% of the common stock is expected to drop to 60% by the end of the project
implementation period to reflect the Government's equity contributions to the
project. The Board of Directors has nine members, six of whom are selected by
the PAJ and three by the Ministry of Finance. In all matters that require the
approval of the Minister, the KFZC Board must make recommendations to the PAJ,
which will retain responsibility for obtaining Government approvals. The day
to day operation of KFZC will be the responsibility of its manager, but final
responsibility for the management of the subsidiary would remain with PAJ,
which will make available its general manager and various department directors
on the basis of a management contract.



- 10 -
KFZC Organization
2.09      PAJ has seconded 1! its 28 staff members who were working full-time
on free zone business to thet KFZC.  These include the manager, a chief of
planning and development, fcur promotion officers and a chief accountant.
Full time support staff total 21 of which 14 provide security and 7 adminis-
trative support. As a matter of principle PAJ has looked upon the free zone
as a profit-making venture aLnd made a conscious effort :o minimize staff
overhead.  Common services such as accounting, legal, engineering and procure-
ment have been provided by PMAJ staff on a part-time basLs. Free Zone operations
have achieved the size to justify separate accounting anid a project engineer,
though legal, procurement and engineering support services will continue to be
provided by PAJ under its management contract. If the project proceeds as
expected, KFZC would need two additional professionals and 11 more support
staff by the end of FY 1985 according to the suggested organization diagram
shown in Annex VII, Table 2.  Reporting to a manager    would be three depart-
ments: Planning and Development, Administration, and Marketing and Promotion.
Because KFZC is a subsidiary of PAJ which is an autonomous government agency,
it has some degree of flexibility to set wages unconstrained by civil service
wage scales. KFZC has agreed to maintain salaries at a level needed to
attract and retain qualified employees at all times.
Boundaries of the KFZ
2.10      Approximately 17 acres of land to the south oij the KFZ is owned
by the PAJ and designated Lot 453. This land which is not part of the
"Land Bank" would be needed to complete the proposed project and should hp
included within the legal boundaries of the KFZ as described in the KFZ Act of
1980. The Act allows for amsendment of the boundaries bv order of the Minister
of Public Utilities.  The borrower has agreed that such action to include Lot
453 within the KFZ would be completed by September 30, ]982. This land should
also be transferred to the accounts of KFZC. PAJ and KFZC have agreed that
this   land would be valued by an independent appraiser., using a method
acceptable to the Bank by September 30, 1982.
Operating Rules and Regulations
2.11      The necessary legislation (para 2.07) defining and giving the force
of law to the free zone's objectives, powers and functions is the first step
in structuring an efficient free zone and reassuring potential occupants that
contracts will be honored and obligations met. Within l:hat context, the
compilation of a body of rules and regulations clearly spelling out the
administrative procedures governing all aspects of the owner/tenant relation-
ship is equally important. KFZC has not as yet prepared and published formal
"Operating Rules and Regulations", although certain elements, e.g., standard
application and lease contracts forms, have been adopted. Experience in many
countries shows that it took several years, often with costly mistakes, and
large expenditures to develop and apply an effective sel of operational
1/   A formal transfer of staff will not occur until the issues of pension
rights and termination benefits are settled.



- 11 -
regulations. Given the anticipated growth rate over the near term, KFZC
should formalize its internal procedural/regulatory framework and move away
from the ad hoc approach which has been more or less the practice up to now.
2.12      Fortunately, the experience of more advanced free zones can be
available to KFZC through either direct visits or consulting services (or
both) - activities foreseen in the project under the Technical Assistance/
Training component. Preparation of a comprehensive regulatory package of
suitable quality, as outlined in Annex III will entail much research by KFZ
staff and the likely use of specialized consultants. It should be completed
before the expansion program financed under the proposed Bank loan begins to
generate an increased flow of investors. KFZC has agreed to send to the Bank
for comment Operational Rules, Regulations, and revised leases by September 30,
1982.
Employment Conditions
2.13      All employers within the free zone are subject to the local labor
laws, which among other things require adequate toilet and washing facilities
and a separate covered area for employee dining in each plant. In addition
KFZC plans to allow mobile canteens to provide food for employees who may
not wish to prepare their own meals. There are no restrictions against
labor unions within the KFZ. Though most large manufacturing operations in
Jamaica have been unionized, only one plant within the KFZ has a union at
present. Salaries are competitive with those available for similar work in
Kingston. Working conditions within the KFZ are considered better than the
average for Kingston, as the SFB's are relatively new and well maintained.
Most of the manufacturing jobs in the KFZ are expected to be semi-skilled.
Special training programs for workers in new industries are organized through
the Jamaica Vocational Training Development Institute or other agencies under
the Ministry of Labor and Employment. Some of these programs will be supported
by the Bank financed vocational training project.
III. MARKETING ASPECTS
Comparative Advantages and Disadvantages of the KFZ
3.01      From a foreign investor-s point of view Jamaica offers comparative
advantages that place it in a favorable competitive position vis-a-vis other
regional and more distant alternatives. To some extent, these are common to
all EPZs - e.g., low labor cost - but in several important respects, Jamaica
enjoys incremental advantages over many competitors, as listed below:
1.   Location - Astride major sea lanes and closer to the largest
national market in the world (the USA) than most other free zones;
2.   Transport - Regularly served by over thirty shipping lines
and eleven international airlines;



- 12 -
3.   Port Facilities - One of the best natural harbors in the world fully
equipped for containerized cargo handling; 2,100 feet of deep-water
berth and 40 acres of secure storage space;
4.   Labor - English-speaking and plentiful labor at generally
competitive wage rates;
5.   Business Services - Banking, insurance, and legal facilities
geared to the needs of sophisticated international operations;
good telecommunications with North America arLd most of the other
important world markets;
6.   Trade Agreements - Preferential bilateral, regional and international
arrangements (CARICOM, the LOME Convention, preferential trade
treaties with Canada, USA, Mexico and Venezuela among others);
7.   Incentive Package - Compares favorably with competitive Zones and is
superior in some ways.
When compared to competitors in the region, KFZ rental rates, presently at.
US$3.50 ft.2/year, are on the high side.  Though foreign investors might
consider this a disadvantage, rents normally make up only about 5% of most manu-
facturer-s costs, so the positive factors above should balance or predominate.
Objectives
3.02      In general KFZC management plans to exploit the advantages cited
above to obtain the maximunm economic benefit for Jamaica. In addition to
the general long range objectives enumerated in para 1.14, the project seeks
to more immediately (i) generate foreign exchange earnings; and (ii) create
new employment opportunities. KFZC's short-term objective is to create as
much business activity in the zone as possible. By doing so it hopes to
attract a sufficient number of initial occupants to achieve credibility and
increasing interest in the foreign business community. At the beginning KFZC's
management feels it cannot be too selective in its choice of investors. Priority
would be given to labor intensive manufacturing companies which would generate
more foreign exchange for Jamaica. Warehousing, trading and distribution
activities, though not characterized by high levels of value added or jobs created,
would be acceptable in the beginning, if they (i) generate substantial shipping
traffic for the port; (ii) are likely to evolve into manufacturing operations
later; or (iii) have suffirient international status to improve the image of
the zone. As a "critical mnass" of operating firms is achieved, it would be
used as a promotional tool to attract new, more desirable investors. In the
medium and long-term KFZC will seek to attract industries that will have more
structural permanence. They would have the ability to generate increased
value added from greater amounts of locally supplied naterials. Production
processes would be more complex and require higher skill levels for workers.
Marketing Strategy
3.03      In the short run, KFZC's strategy is to follow up on many contacts
made with foreign investors as part of an international promotion program
carried out in 1980-81 by the World Trade Institute (para 3.06). The program



- 13 -
concentrated on the labor intensive sectors of garments and electronics,
primarily in the U.S. market. Most of the companies contacted in 1980 were
reluctant to make commitments until the legal status of the KFZ was officially
defined (para 2.07) and the local investment climate improved. Now that both
of these impediments have been removed, KFZC's management has been re-estab-
lishing contacts with the companies it believes might still be interested
first.  Afterwards, this program   would be expanded to identify other companies
in these sectors during 1982. KFZC's strategy for achieving its medium and
long-term objectives would concentrate on selecting other sectors which can
provide Jamaica with more lasting benefits.  Such sectors as agro-industry,
metal working and footwear would be included in this category.
Target Markets
3.04      The United States and Canada will continue to be the number one
target market for KFZC's promotion over the period 1982-86. The factors which
determine this are:
(i) A long tradition of North American investments in and
trading relationships with Jamaica;
(ii) special bilateral and other facilities such as U.S. Tariff
Regs. 806.3 and 8.07 1/, the US/Jamaica Textile Agreement,
G.S.P., and the Canadian/Caricom Agreement; and
(iii) an attempt by North American companies to lower costs by
transferring offshore operations from the Far East to
countries closer to home.
In the future KFZC plans to spend more of its effort attracting firms from
the European Economic Community (EEC) and the Far East. Under the Lome
Convention, products manufactured in Jamaica can enter the EEC virtually
duty free. Countries in the Far East such as Japan, Korea and Taiwan are
facing severe cutbacks in their textile and garment quotas to the United
States and Europe. By moving some of their operations to Jamaica, they would
be able to continue exporting to these markets using the Jamaican quota.
Methodology
3.05      KFZC plans to continue a "rifle shot" approach to marketing.
Using the services of professional promotion agencies in the target markets,
KFZC would:
(i) research and evaluate input/output data for the target
country's industrial sector to determine a relationship
between its needs and what Jamaica can offer in the way
of facilities for foreign firms seeking a free zone
location.
1/   These regulations permit U.S. manufacturers to ship U.S. origin raw and
intermediate goods to offshore sites for assembly and manufacture of
finished products which can reenter the U.S. market subject only to duty
on the foreign value added.



- 14 -
(ii) narrow down ithe sector into most likely subsectors;
(iii)  establish criteria to determine probable interest of
individual companies; and
(iv) after pre-screening of potential customers make a systematic
face-to-face presentation to individual companies.
Past Performance
3.06      During the years 1975-78 PAJ prepared and distributed promotional
material, made visits to other free zones, and relied primarily on Jamaica's
foreign diplomatic missions to develop contacts using a "fish net" approach.
Embassies in Germany, Japan, Korea, US and Canada sponsored meetings for KFZ
with interested groups of investors. Though the costs of this program were
low, it also yielded few investors (only five SFB's weres occupied at the
end of 1978). Subsequently, the World Trade Institute of the Port Authority
of New York was contracted to undertake a three-year invrestment promotion
project (1979-81) using the "rifle shot" approach outlined in paragraph 3.05.
The cost of this undertaking was borne primarily by USAiD.  The project
focused on the US market and identified the garment and electronic subsectors
as having the best potential investors for Jamaica. A series of company
visits followed and individually tailored presentations were made. Though
this promotional campaign aimed at the US market was properly executed, it
yielded only limited results before 1981, due primarily to the extended
period of political uncertainty and social unrest experienced by Jamaica
during this period.
3.07      Despite these handicaps, as of December 1981, a total of 28 SFBs had
been built. All rentable space - 169,500 ft2 in 27 SFBE; (one is occupied by
KFZ administration) - has been leased to 15 firms. One other large fish-
processing factory is under construction at a coastal site several miles to
the south-east under the administrative control of KFZC as a free zone industry.
Of the 15 firms located in the main KFC area, four are in the start-up phase of
their operations. Annex II tabulates the current occupEncy and other data
on the performance of the free zone. Of those companies in operation, about 75%
of their floor space is presently devoted to manufacturing, with 80% expected
for those registered but not yet in operation. About 45'6 persons are presently
employed, but when all 15 firms reach full employment, the total is expected
to be 1070. As shown in Table 3.0 below, by January 19E2, based on civil works
tenders already executed, seven more units 1/ will be completed for a five-year
total of 35 factory units or 214,500 ft2, an average of seven units and
42,900 ft2 per annum. Of the additional seven units, five are fully committed
to firms awaiting completion of the current construction. program.
1/   The floor slab and frames for 2 additional SFB's are included in this
contract. These two units would remain vacant for two years or until
the neighboring occupant exercises its option to occupy, at which point
their construction would be completed.



- 15 -
Prospects for the Future
3.08      While the KFZ experienced only a modest growth rate over the last
five years, the period was useful as a learning experience for PAJ management
and staff. Based on Jamaica's inherent comparative advantages (para 3.01),
now becoming much more visible within the context of revised economic policy
and the recent improvement in the socio-political climate, a new point of
departure may be anticipated. International investor interest is reviving
rapidly in terms of correspondence with and visits by representatives of
American, Canadian, European and Far Eastern firms and the pipeline of poten-
tial investments is growing steadily.
Table 3.0: PAST AND FUTURE KFZ GROWTH, 1976-1984
Actual, 1976-81         Forecast, 1982-85
Annual  5-Year Total    Annual  4-Year Total
Average                  Average
SFBs Constructed (no .)                  7          35 a/        20          80
SFBs Constructed (ft )              42,900    214,500 a/   120,000    480,000
Firms' leasing space snos.)              4          20             8         32
Average Area/firm (ft )             11,000          -              -     15,000 b/
Average Employment/firm
single shift, at full
production (nos.)                      8          -           136          -
Incremental Employment                 324       1,620        1,000       4,000 c/
a/   Figures do not include large fish processing firm at separate KFZ
location, to employ 400, but building investment covered by owners.
b/   Assumes increase of about 35% in size of operation, on average.
c/   Does not include expansion of employment at previously established
KFZ factories.  KFZ experience has 2shown that garment and electronic
assembly work averages about 80 ft per job, other manufacturing aboui
120 ft per job, and warehousing and distribution to about 150-175 ft
per job. The mix assumed foi this forecast is 60%, 30%, 10%, yielding
a weighted average of 120 ft per job.
3.09      There is little doubt that demand for KFZ facilitates in the next
five-year period will exceed that of the last five years, barring adverse
developments internally and/or a serious world-wide recession. There is
positive evidence supporting that judgement. One of the foremost North
American consulting firms 1/ specializing in export processing zone (EPZ)
1/   International Parks Inc., Flagstaff, Arizona.



- 16 -
development estimates that lJ.S. industries will export an average of between
50,000-80,000 factory jobs lper annum over the 1981-90 decade in EPZ type
activities, i.e., mainly international subcontracting of portions of their
manufacturing process. By assuming conservatively only 50,000 jobs/year from
the USA, and an equivalent niumber from the remaining OECD countries and
advanced developing countries in aggregate, new EPZ type jobs exported to the
developing nations could be expected to average 100,000 jobs/year during this
period. This translates into into 20 million ft2/year of new factory space,
at average labor/working space ratios. The mission estimates that Jamaica
attracted only about 0.30% of the 1976-81 EPZ-based job growth in the develop-
ing world. 1/ Taking into account the extremely adverse conditions in Jamaica
during that period, a 0.30% share may be considered the absolute minimum for
the future.
3.10      For 1982-85, if Jamaica were to attract no more than its historical
minimum share of EPZ jobs - 0.3% of 400,000 or 1,200 jobs - it would correspond
to 240,000 ft2 of SFB const1ruction or 60,000 ft2/yr or about 9 SFBs of 6,500
ft2 each. With intensive well-funded promotion of the "new Jamaica", KFZ's
share should rise dramatically - as investor interest since the elections
appears to foretell - and a construction program of 15-20 SFBs p.a. would not
appear unrealistic as a basLs for planning the proposed four-year project.
3.11      Independently of the above estimates, KFZC management, in preparation
for the Bank's appraisal mission, had gauged the short- to medium-term demand
at a minimum of 20 SFBs p.a. rising to 30-40 p.a. by 1983-84. The project
design has been based on an assumed construction schedule summarized in Table
3.0 above of 20 units/yr but can be accelerated or slowed as warranted by
market conditions. The ideal, sought at all EPZs, is to time the construction
of new facilities in parallel with but slightly in advance of effective demand
so that at all times a few JEactory units are ready, or very close to being
ready, for occupancy.
IV. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The total land area allocated to KFZ development comprises 115 acres
adjacent to the Trans-Shipment Port along the western boundary of Kingston
Port and extending south and east to a future container terminal designated
the Gordon Cay Container Terminal. The entire port complex, shown in the plot
plan of Map 1, surrounds (on three sides) a 40 ft deep channel extending
1/   There is no comprehensive data available for the 6-year period, 1976-81.
Assuming growth of EPZ working space was no more than 50% of the projec-
tion for 1982-90, then about 50 million square feet of new factory space
were occupied worldwide during the previous period. Of this amount
Jamaica accounted for 176,000 ft2 or 0.35%. Stated in terms of job-
creation, Jamaica attracted only about 0.3% of the EPZ based job growth
in the developing worldl between 1976-81.



- 17 -
north-west from Kingston harbour. All of the land covered by the free zone
and future container terminal has been reclaimed to a level averaging 4 feet
above the mean high water level using fill obtained by dredging the channel.
Additional fill is required to raise this land to an eight foot level considered
safe for commercial use. This prepared land must be further surcharged
(compacted) for about six months before the construction of buildings can
begin. Of the 115 acres earmarked for KFZ operations, 14 acres have been
surcharged and provided with a road grid in past project development. Within
this prepared area, as already noted, 28 factory modules or SFBs have been
built and an additional seven SFBs will be completed by March 1982. The
proposed Bank financed project would start in the third quarter of calendar
1981 and extend over a four-year implementation period ending in the third
quarter of 1985. It would include:
(i)  Development of 23 1/ acres of land with shore protection on the
harbor side, ready for building construction, complete with roads,
power, water and sewerage networks.
(ii)  Construction of 80 SFBs and approximately 950 yrds of 12 foot
high security wall.
(iii)  Technical assistance and training.
B. Detailed Features
Land Development
4.02      Additional fill is required to raise the 17 acres of reclaimed
land included in the project to an eight foot level considered safe for
commercial use, from its present average of four feet above mean high water.
Estimates of the fill volumes required have been based on the recommendations
of a soils engineering consultant's review of test borings from the site.
In order to minimize possible wave erosion along the harbor side of the site,
a carpet of stone riprap will be laid down along the water's edge.
Land Use Allocation
4.03      Land use allocation within the KFZ may be tabulated as follows:
1/   About 6 acres of this area has already been filled and partly surcharged.



- 18 -
Table 4.0: LAND USE PATTERN
Use                                        Acres
Industrial Sites                                18.6        50
Roads                                           15.3        41
Green Area or parking a!                         3.1         9
Total                             37.0 b/   100
a/   Includes Sewerage Lifting Station covered mostly by grass.
b/   Approximately 14.0 acres have already been developed.
Compared to generally accepted criteria, an industrial land/total land ratio
of 50% is low (70-75% is usually attainable). The rentable industrial land
constraint arises primarily from the wider-than-normal road design and some
unuseable space due to a lack of symmetry in the boundaries. For example,
the main north-south street has a right-of-way of 120 ft to accomodate two
2-lane roads of 40 ft each separated by a 20 ft island and two sidewalks of
10 ft each.  The secondary or feeder roads at right-angLes have a right-of-
way of 60 ft to accomodate a 40 ft wide hard top and 2xLo ft sidewalks. These
specifications are on the high side in comparison with general industrial
estate standards, but are considered necessary by the consultants to accomodate
the movement of 40 ft long containers requiring larger-than-usual turning circles.
As a result, the road/total land area ratio is 41% versus a more typical 15-20%
found elsewhere. KFZ and the consultants are reexamining the layout tu deter-
mine the feasibility of reducing road widths, without constraining significantly
the ease of goods transit. The land freed up would then be reallocated to indus-
trial use thereby increasing the revenue generating potential of the project
beyond that assumed in the financial and economic analysis of the project.
Roads
4.04      KFZ's main gate opens onto First Street which provides primary access
to the entire port area.  The Government Public Works Department is presently
in the process of reconstructing most segments of the road, so the project
does not include financing for this work. Existing roads within the KFZ will be
upgraded with an additional asphalt overlay. New roads will be constructed of
6" gravel base, 12 inches of cement stabilized marl and topped with 3 inches
of asphalt. This design has been used extensively in the transhipment port area
and proven reliable with time.
Utilities and Services
4.05      No problem is anticipated by the National Water Commission in supplying
the estimated maximum water demand of 500,000 gpd - about 3% of Kingston's
capacity - on project completion (and full occupancy) in 1985/86. A 12"
diameter main operating at 70 psi static pressure is about half mile from the
site, from which an 8" offtake will connect with the internal distribution
system. The estimated demand covers both sanitary and :Lndustrial needs, assuming
that most industries will be the typical low water consumers found in free zones
(light mechanical, electronic, clothing, toys, etc.) and only a few will



- 19 -
require large amounts of process and clean-up water (e.g., dyeing, food,
chemical, and pharmaceutical products, etc.). Underground and/or elevated
storage, and a pumping station, is not considered necessary in this first phase.
4.06      Liquid waste - estimated at the maximum water demand of up to
500,000 gpd - will be collected in an internal sewage disposal system and will
connect with the municipal sewage main adjacent to the site. Since the reclaimed
land will be only 2-3 meters above mean high tide, a pumping station will be
installed to lift the effluent to a point ensuring gravity flow into the outside
main. Factories generating aggressive liquid waste such as acid, alkali, heavy
metal salts, excessive organic matter, etc., will be required to pretreat the
effluent to suitable standards before discharge into the collection system.
4.07      Adequate storm water drainage has been provided for in the design
of the streets. Conduit cross-sections and slopes have been calculated to
handle the maximum peak loads generated under hurricane conditions.
4.08      Telephone and telex services will be provided by the Jamaica
Telephone Company and JAMINTEL, respectively, via underground ducts paralleling
the street network. Each factory will negotiate its telecommunications instal-
lations directly with the supplier and KFZ has been assured of the availability
of up to 160 lines.
Power
4.09      Electric power for the industries in the KFZ is provided by the
Jamaica Public Service Company (JPSC) through overhead lines along the general
service streets. Desirable development of the site will require removal of
the existing lines and provision of electric power via underground cables
along utility easements within the right-of-way of proposed streets. The project
includes the cost of this work. JPSC is upgrading the existing high voltage
feeder line connecting the KFZ and its Hunts Bay Power Station as part of its
scheduled development of the area. A recent Bank energy mission reviewed
JPSCs ability to supply KFZ's demand for power through 1986 (about 7 Mw).
It concluded that there was no need for further generating capacity during the
execution phase of the project.
SFB Construction
4.10      Of the 80 SFBs planned, about 26 will be erected within the exist-
ing 14 acre urbanized area, completing the utilization of industrial sites
in this area. The remaining 54 SFBs will be erected on about 23 1/ acres of
industrial sites to be developed under the proposed project, leaving a reserve
of six to eight building plots for future SFB construction (or for construction
of owner-built factories).
SFB Design
2
4.11      KFZC has been using a standardized factory module of 6,000 ft  ground
floor area (60- x 100 ) and a partial mezzanine of 500 ft2 for offices, although
1/   Approximately 6 acres of this area has already been filled and partly
surcharged.



- 20 -
dimensions may vary by up to 10% depending on individual plot configurations.
Cilear height under the eave is 18 ft and 24 ft under the peak of the gable roof.
Building specifications are reinforced concrete floor slabs and foundations, steel
framework, reinforced cement block walls and aluminum roof sheeting. KFZ has
found that the 18 ft clear height of these buildings has proven largely unnecessary
for most light industrial uses, so consultants are being asked to design a similar
building of 12 ft clear height to be used for these cases. The resulting design
is expected to lower construction costs, but this change has not been assumed in
the project cost estimates. The construction standards are commensurate with the
demands of a hurricane zone where 150 mile per hour gusts may occasionally be
experienced. Earthquake design is in conformity with the U.S. California Code.
4.12      There is a danger that a single module design, constructed in rows
with common longitudinal walls, while very cost-effective, would lead eventually
to a congested and monotonous architectural effect.  The congestion problem
is further compounded by PAJ's previous policy of utilizing about 80% of the
bounded area of each plot for the SFB shell, leaving only 20% outside space for
expansion or storage use. Design standards for modular factory construction
on industrial estates generally specify a maximum of 6C0-65% of the building
plot be covered by the factory, 1/ leaving 35-40% unoccupied. KFZC has hired
foreign consultants with considerable experience in EPZ layout to review the
present layout and to increase the percent of land devoted to building plots.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.13      Though the Port Authority and KFZC staff have already accumulated
five years of experience in establishing a functioning free zone, certain
deficiencies are apparent in physical design and in financial reporting and
control and other management practices, as discussed in. paras 2.05 and 2.12.
Locally contracted architectural/engineering firms, and other local consulting
groups have performed well in providing basic services (e.g., structural
design, tendering and construction supervision services and in cost/benefit
analysis) but are less familiar with the advanced concepts, techniques and
practices developed in the long-established free zones of (mainly) the Far
East. It is planned to close this gap through technical assistance and train-
ing as outlined in para 4.16 and Annex IV, Table 1. KFZC does not anticipate
any problem recruiting basically qualified professional level staff locally,
who will receive the TA/Training provided in the project to compensate for
their lack of experience in free zone operations. Promotion activities
previously carried out by the manager will need to be delegated or at least
shared with others who must be properly trained for that purpose.
4.14      The TA/training program is expected to have three parts:
(i) management/financial/te,zhnical experts attached to KFZ as advisors (on-
the-job training); (ii) contracts with specialized firms to carry out defined
work programs in such areas as international investment promotion (the single
highest priority activity over the next 2-3 years); and (iii) organized train-
ing courses and study tours for key KFZC staff in foreign locations such as
Ireland, Philippines, Singa,pore, and Malaysia. In consultation with KFZC
1/   For free standing factories, the preferred limit is 35-40%.



- 21 -
Authority management, the functional areas to be strengthened through the
TA/training project component are shown in Annex IV Table 1 with correspond-
ing estimates of costs totalling US$669,000.
4.15      Though the development of staff skills in financial planning and
control, for example, can be handled by a local accounting firm, it is likely
that the bulk of the expenditures - including almost all of the international
marketing/promotion activities - will be in foreign exchange covering foreign
sources of TA/training. For estimating purposes, it is assumed that about 90%
or US$600,000 will be foreign exchange disbursements.
4.16      All TA/training costs are shown as project expenditures, but
KFZC management does not intend to use the Bank loan to finance this component.
Its policy is to use its own cash flow and when possible grant funds from aid
agencies to finance activities which are not directly related to generating
revenues. KFZC has agreed to prepare by June 30, 1982, a detailed plan of
technical assistance and training with estimated costs and time schedules.
During negotiations agreement was reached with KFZC on substantially all of
its technical assistance plan.
Project Management and Execution Schedule
4.17      Implementation of the Project will be the responsibility of the
KFZC/PAJ. The latter has a small engineering department and relies on out-
side consulting engineers for design, tendering, bid evaluation, and super-
vision of construction for all large projects. This procedure is acceptable
and would be followed for the proposed project. In addition a Project
Manager acceptable to the Bank would be appointed by KFZC as a condition
of loan effectiveness. He would be assigned exclusively to the project and
report directly to the KFZC manager. Procurement and general engineering
support would be supplied by PAJ until the work load justifies the assign-
ment of permanent staff within KFZC. The project started in August 1981 with
the construction of seven SFBs and 2 partially built ones to be retro-actively
financed (para 8.07). Project execution would extend over a four year period
ending in September 1985. Project expenditures by year are shown in Annex IV
Table 2. As discussed in para 3.11, construction of the SFB component of the
project, which is planned to take place at the rate of 20 SFBs p.a., would be
accelerated or slowed as warranted by market conditions.
V.   PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
Project Cost
5.01      Capital costs over the 4 year construction period amounting to
US$22.5 million are shown in Table 3 Annex IV and a summary is shown in para
5.03. Because of PAJ's experience in the execution of similar civil works
since 1976 and the up-to-date costs available from its continuing construction
program, the project cost estimates prepared by KFZC consulting engineers and
adjusted by Bank staff are considered realistic. Direct and indirect foreign
exchange costs in aggregate amount to 60% (rounded) of total project costs or
US$13.5 million.



- 22 -
5.02      Project costs were calculated as of March 1982 before price contin-
gencies. Engineering, design and supervision costs were assumed to be 7-1/2
of construction costs rather than a more normal 6%, in order to reflect the
local practice of using quantity surveyers as well as supervising engineers
for this work. Physical contingencies for land fill and infrastructure
services are 10%. This percentage has been reduced to 5% for the construction
of factory shells as a standard proven design is to be repeated. KFZC does
not intend to alter this design significantly, unless the changes can be
demonstrated to yield a substantially cheaper building. Inflation on the
foreign component during the construction period is assumed to be 9% p.a. in
1981, 8-1/2% p.a. in 1982, and 7-1/2% p.a., for the years thereafter. Local
inflation is assumed to be 12% p.a. in 1981 and 10% p.a. in the following
years, which is in line with the trend in local labor and materials costs in
Jamaica since March 1981.
Financing Plan
5.03      As shown below in a condensation of Annex IV Table 3, 60% of
project costs would be provided by the proposed Bank loan of US$13.5 million.
The remaining 40% would have to be financed from local sources:
TABLE 5.0: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Projecl: Cost                       Financing Plan
(J$miLlion)             (J$million)            (US$ million)
Local  Foreign   Total        GOV   PAJ    WB       GOV    PAJ    WB
Civil Works       16.0    22.9       38.9       8.9   5.9   24.0       5.0    3.3   13.5
TA/Training         .1      1.1       1.2       1.2    -      -         .7     -       -
Total             16.1    24.0       40.1      10.1   5.9   24.0       5.7    3.3   13.5
(% of total)      (40)    (60)      (100)      (24)  (16)   (60)    (24)   (16)   (60)
Forty percent of the local funds would be provided by the PAJ with the remainder
of the funds coming from the Government's budget. The PAJ has agreed to make
its contribution (J$million) as follows: .800 in FY1982; 1.290 in FY83, 1.640 in
FY84, 1.580 in FY85; and .600 in FY86. The Government would make annual contri-
butions of J$2.235 million in FY 1983; 2.855 in 1984; 2.750 in 1985 and 1.045 in
FY1986. These funds would be shown in the accounts of the KFZC as equity.
VI. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Approach to Analysis
6.01      The financial analysis in this chapter deals with both the KFZC and
the PAJ. Though the Government is the borrower of the proposed Bank loan, the
KFZC would be responsible for implementing the project anc servicing this
debt, including the foreign exchange risk in US$, under a subloan agreement.



- 23 -
On its part the PAJ would be obligated to make a substantial contribution to
the local counterpart in the financing plan. For these reasons the following
analysis concentrates on (i) the financial viability of KFCZ as a subborrower
responsible for project execution and (ii) PAJ's ability to provide its share
of the financing plan over the implementation period of the project.
KFZ Past Performance
6.02      KFZ's proforma financial performance for the years 1979-81 is shown
in Annex V Tables 4-6. Costs do not include the indirect administrative costs
of those staff in PAJ's management, administration and engineering departments,
a part of whose time is spent working on KFZ business. Data for earlier years
is not easily available as much of it has been consolidated into PAJ's general
accounts. To date the scale of operations in the KFZ have not been large
enough to lover its fixed costs. Its rental rates, which are currently at
US$3.50/ft /yr for new two year leases, generate annual revenues equal to
about 15% of the historical book value of capital invested and are considered
on the high side compared to alternative locations in the caribbean. The
years 1979-81 have showed small cash flow deficits without counting the
unallocated costs of PAJ staff working part time on the KFZ. As the amount
of leased space increases these deficits are expected to be eliminated by
FY85.
KFZ Forecast Performance
6.03      Pricing Policy.  The KFZC pricing policy must be governed by two
basic factors: (i) it must be reasonably competitive with alternatives
in the Caribbean area; and (ii) it should provide an acceptable financial
return on the funds invested. Rental charges are normally a small part of
a firm's operating costs. As long as labor costs have been competitive,
other factors such as location and port services have allowed the KFZC to
charge higher rental rates than other EPZs in the Caribbean. Bank financed
projects in the region have full cost recovery targets and other inter-
national lending institutions are beginning to pursue the same objectives.
The less than economic rents being charged in many parts of the Caribbean are
thus expected to become less common in the future. Nevertheless, there are
limits to the premium KFZC can charge for rent and still attract quality
tenants.  It is the judgement of KFZC management, that rents for new SFB 2
construction available for occupancy in 1982 cannot exceed US$3.50 per ft
without adversely affecting market demand. This rate would yield revenues
equal to about 11% per year on new capital invested in real terms.
6.04      During negotiations it was agreed that factory space financed by the
Bank and completed during FY1982 and 1983 would be rented at rates sufficient
to yield annual revenue of not less than 11% of the capital invested. It was
further agreed that in order to improve KFZC's projected financial position
and the project's financial rate of return, KFZC would charge annual rents of
12% on SFBs completed in FY 1984 and 1985 and 13% on those completed in FY
1986 as competitive conditions in the Caribbean permit. KFZC's policy of
reviewing leases every two years with reasonable upward adjustments of rent on
renewal to approximate rental rates on current construction would be maintained.



- 24 -
6.05      Revenue forecast.  While the construction of mactory shells will be
linked to effective demand, the rental schedule for the purposes of the financial
forecast is assumed to follciw the marketing and construction plans discussed
in para 3.11. Revenues are derived only from rentals oij SFBs according to the
following schedule:
Table 6: FORECAST RENTAL SCHEDULE
% Increase
/a 1982   1983    1984      1985    1986  Thereafter
Thousand ft2 of
space completed /b    SFB         45     130      130      130       98        -
Cost of construc-
tion US$/ft /c         SFB        32.00   36.00   41.00    45.30   50.00       8
Rental rate
US$/ft2/year           SFB         3.50    4.00    4.90       5.45    6.50     8
/a   Fiscal year.
lb   Revenue forecast assumes that only half of construction completed in
a year is leased in the same year; the other half is rented in the
following year at the same rate.
/c   Fully allocated including land fill and infrastructure.
Utility charges (i.e., water, power, telecommunications) will be collected
directly from the firms using the zone by the various utility companies.
Leases call for the tenants to maintain SFBs at their own expense.
6.06      Income and Cashflow.  Forecast financial statements for KFZ during
the years 1982-89 are shown in Annex V Tables 4-6.  Operating costs converted
to J$ are based on feasibility study estimates inflated at a rate of 10% p.a.,
to match the price contingency assumptions for construction costs.  Investments
are depreciated over 40 years. Projected net income is not expected to become
positive until FY86, though cashflow generated from operations becomes positive
in 1985. Accumulated deficits in cash flow after debt service total J$1.3
million in 1982-84. KFZC will have to obtain short term financing to cover
these deficits as well as to bridge the gap between project expenditures and
reimbursement from the Bank loan. As shown in the forecast balance sheet
(Annex V, T-6), KFZC is expected to build up overdrafts to cover these needs
which reach J$9.5 million by 1985. This short term liability would then
decline to J$5.5 million in 1986 and disappear in 1988. PAJ has agreed to
make available or guarantee this short term financing tc KFCZ, if the latter
cannot otherwise obtain it from commercial sources on reasonable terms.
Increasing debt beyond this level is not considered prudent in light of the
anticipated four years of losses necessary to reach profitability. For this
reason PAJ and the Government would be expected to supply the local counter-
part (J$16.0 million) for the project as equity (para 5.03).



- 25 -
6.07      In the first full year of operation after completion of the project
(FY87), KFZC's debt service coverage ratio (Annex V, T-5) is expected to be
1.25. This ratio would increase to 1.42 in FY89. In order to help insure
KFZC's ability to pay back the Bank loan, it was agreed that KFZC would not
incur any additional long term debt, if its debt service coverage ratio is
forecasted to fall below 1.5 in future years. KFZC's corresponding debt-equity
ratio peaks at 59:41 in 1985 and declines slowly thereafter. If competitive
conditions in the Caribbean do not permit KFZC to implement the agreed pricing
policy (para. 6.04) and annual rentals remain at 11% of construction costs
during the life of the project, KFZC's debt service coverage coverage ratio
would be 1.1 in FY87, 1.0 in FY88 and 1.1 in FY89.
6.08      Financial Rate of Return.  The project's financial rate of return
(FIRR) is calculated by considering the revenues and costs associated with
the project. As shown in Annex VI, Table 1 the project would have an FIRR of
about 10% in constant prices, if construction costs do not include the price
contingency, rents are increased in accordance with the agreed pricing policy,
and operating costs are not inflated.  If competitive conditions in the           2
Caribbean do not permit rents in real terms to be increased beyond US$3.50 ft
(11% of construction costs) the FIRR becomes 8%. When inflation is included
in the costs and the pricing policy outlined in para. 6.03 is followed, the
FIRR becomes 19% compared to the proposed loan's assumed interest rate of 12%.
These returns are acceptable and comparable to those achieved in recent Bank
projects of a similar nature.
PAJ Financial Forecast
6.09      Revenue Projection.  A financial forecast for PAJ's consolidated
operations is included in Annex V Tables 1 - 3. The revenue projected in
the income statement (Table 1) is derived from the following sources:
(i) charges on all ships using the Port of Kingston and several smaller
outports; (ii) net revenues (before depreciation and debt service) from the
transshipment terminal; (iii) net revenues from tugboat operations. Revenue
for KFZ are not included after 1981. Revenue from ship charges for 1983 is
expected to rebound some 10% over that collected in the previous year which
still reflected a depressed economy. Traffic is then projected to increase
at 5% p.a. thereafter. Transhipment net revenue is conservatively projected
to grow at a compounded rate of 12% over the 1982-88 period. This reflects
an assumed growth in box moves of 5% p.a., with an additional 5% increase
in 1986 due to the introduction of a new shipping line.  Tariffs are also
assumed to increase 10% every two years. Two new PACECO cranes, presently
under construction, will double PAJ's container handling capacity in FY1983.
The assumption on this build up in traffic is considered reasonable in light
of PAJ's record of success and the quality of competing service. Gross reve-
nues from recently purchased tugboats are expected to grow at a compound
rate of about 12% over the forecast period due to a 3% annual increase in
usage and a 10% increase in fees every two years.
6.10      Expense Projection.  PAJ's consolidated expenses are shown in Annex V
Table 1.  They are made up primarily of administrative costs associated with
headquarters, the costs of maintaining the Kingston Harbor and a few outports,



- 26 -
and the tugboats. Costs shown for the transshipment terminal are minor as its
costs of operation are already accounted for in calculating net revenues. The
administrative and harbor expenses are expected to grow 10% a year.
6.11      Forecast financial performance.  Based on the assumptions discussed
above, PAJ would be expected to earn before adjustments for foreign exchange
gains and losses net income of J$4.7 million in FY83, increasing to J$9.1
million in FY88. Its consolidated debt service coverage ratio (Annex V, T-2)
would be maintained at about 1.15 during the period 1982-86 and it increases
thereafter. Its debt equity ratio (Annex V, T-3) would improve from 66:34 to
47:53 during the same period. As shown in the summary Table 6.1 below, during
the project execution period (1982-86), PAJ would generate enough cashflow to
cover its debt service obligations, its equity contribution to the project,
and have J$2.1 million in cash to use for other purposes.
Table 6.1: PAJ CASHFLOW FORECAST 1982-86
OOOJ$                    1982   1983    1984   1985       1986   Total
Cash flow available
for investment a/    1,235   1,962  1,508   1,754    1,596   8,055
Required for KFZ
equity, contribution,
to project              800   1,290  1,640   1,580        600   5,910
Available for other
purposes                435      672   (132)    174       996   2,145
a/   Net after payment of debt service.
The limited amount of cash available for investment showm above is primarily
due to high debt service requirements associated with PgJ-s borrowing program
to finance large investments in port operations planned during this period.
Its equity contribution to the KFZ project makes up only about 17% of its
capital investment budget for the period 1982-1986. As presented in Table
6.1, funds available for other purposes represents the extra margin of coverage
for PAJ's equity contribution to the project. If PAJ's gross revenues turn
out to be less than projected, it can: (i) generate the required cash flow
for investment in the project by postponing its port investments, thereby
reducing its debt service requirements, (ii) draw down some of its cash
balances or (iii) use short term bridge financing to make up the difference.
6.12      Possible revaluations of PAJ-s foreign currency, long term debt obli-
gations may cause non cash accounting losses in the future, as they have in
the past. About 70% of its revenues are either collected in US$, or the
charges in local currency are tied to the US$. Its foreign currency risk is
thus limited to the cross currency risks between the US$ and the other foreign
currencies it has borrowed (para 2.03). Since its non debt service related
expenses are paid primarily in local currency, possible future devaluations
of the J$ relative to the US$ would tend to improve PAJ"s cashflow.



- 27 -
VII. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND PROJECT RISKS
A. Economic Rate of Return
7.01      The principal purpose of the proposed expenditures for constructing
and operating the KFZ is to attract foreign investors to Jamaica by offering
factory shells and services to exporting enterprises. This investment would
subsequently induce a series of further investments by these enterprises in
furnishing and equipping the factory shells for productive purposes. A
comprehensive economic evaluation of the KFZ project should thus include net
benefits from both the principal and the induced investments. Because of the
difficulties associated with trying to determine the probable costs of induced
investments and the net benefits which result, the economic analysis assumed
that the jobs to be created by new tenant operations in the zone would be
similar in number (per ft2) to those created in the past. Since the firms are
expected to import most material inputs and to export most outputs, and will
not pay taxes, the economic benefits of their activities will be primarily the
jobs that they provide.
7.02      If promotional efforts are successful, firms will rent space accord-
ing to the schedule outlined in para 6.05, Table 6.0. The conservatively
defined economic benefits to Jamaica would include (i) rental income at
US$3.50 ft2 yr increasing to US$4.25 ft2/yr in 1986; and (ii) the wages paid
by the firms for local labor. The latter are a US$ cost to the firms, but are
converted to local currency by the Central Bank. The economic costs of the
project to Jamaica are the capital costs of the project less duties and taxes,
and the marginal costs of operating it.
7.03      Assuming that one job will be created for every 175 ft  of factory
space (para. 3.07, Table 3), then approximately 4,000 jobs would be created
when the firms are assumed to reach full production in 1990. Based on a total
wage/benefit package of US$2064 per year (September 1981 prices) for semi to
medium-skill labor and shadow pricing at 75% of the market value, about US$6.2
million in local wages would be paid at full production.
7.04      Because of the critical shortage of foreign exchange in Jamaica, a
shadow exchange rate with the US$, which is 20% higher than the existing rate
has been used on all foreign costs and benefits. Based on the above assump-
tions and as shown in Annex VI Table 2, the project has an economic return of
about 35%. If wage benefits are shadow priced at a more severe 50%, the return
becomes 28%.
B. Other Economic Benefits
7.05      In addition to the economic benefits included in the calculation of
the rate of return, there are induced benefits related to goods and services
purchased in Jamaica, other than the direct labor used in zone operations. An
important part of KFZ's marketing plan is to attract firms which have the
potential to develop backward linkages to the Jamaican economy. Experience in



- 28 -
other free zones has shown that many opportunities will be created for small-
scale, satellite enterprises to supply inputs to firms located in the EPZ and
sell goods to workers from the zone. The project would also provide training
and experience in technical skills, management, international marketing
and quality control for local employees.
C. Project Risks
7.06      Because of the nature of the industries operating in the free zone,
they should not be affected by demand in the local econcmy. The competitive-
ness of Jamaican labor costs, could decline, if realistic exchange rate policies
are not pursued by the government. Such an occurance would also lower demand for
KFZ facilities. The possibility of construction costs exceeding the estimates
is not expected to affect the economic rate of return, as rents will be tied
to construction costs as agreed in KFZ's pricing policy. Rents could become
too high to be competitive, according to the pricing formula, if the J$-US$
exchange rate becomes unrealistic.
7.07      If for whatever reason the KFZ experiences less demand than is
expected during the construction phase of the project, it can deal with the
problem by reducing the numbesr of factories to be constructed. The risk of
having unoccupied buildings during this period would thus be limited to the
two or three modules that KFZ7 plans to construct in advance of firm demand.
After the project is completed, there is a risk that an unrealistic Jamaican
exchange rate might make local labor so uncompetitive that some existing firms
would not renew their rental contracts. If such a situation were to occur
during a five year period starting two years after completion of the project,
and 30% of the project's SFB"s were vacant during this period, the FIRR would
drop from 10% to 8% and the ERR from 35% to 32%.
VIII. PROPOSED LOAN
General
8.01      The Bank loan would be made to the Government :Eor 17 years including
four years of grace at the irnterest rate of 11.6%. The Government would
relend these funds to the KF2; on the same terms, including the foreign exchange
risk in US$ in accordance with a subloan agreement acceptable to the Bank.
Signing of this subloan agreement would be a condition o: effectiveness of the
Bank loan. The closing date for the Bank loan would be I)ecember 31, 1987.
Procurement
8.02      Engineering drawings and specifications are available for roads,
SFBs and other standardized items and the preparation of tender documents
for these has become a straightfoward repetitive exercise. Additional
architectural/engineering design work will be needed for the filling and
surcharging of 23 acres of new land the layout of lots for, the sewage lifting



- 29 -
station, water distribution and for two or three variations on the standardized
factory module. The need for the latter will not delay project execution,
since it is not tied to the contracting of land preparation and roads in the
17 acres development parcel nor the construction of 20 SFBs in the existing
23 acre parcel.
8.03      KFZC civil works procurement procedures are consistent with estab-
lished government guidelines for all public sector entities as summarized below:
(a)  Prequalification - Using the list of approved contractors
issued annually by the Public Works Department of the
Ministry of Works, at least four and as many as six firms
are invited to submit completed prequalification question-
naires. This provides a comprehensive and detailed 15
page data base on organization, management/staff experience
and capabilities, equipment owned and to be rented, per-
sonnel to be assigned to the project, financial resources
and other data including availability of performance bond
guarantees and/or insurance, current work in progress, etc.
Firms are classified "A", "B" and "C" indicating decreasing
size with "C" corresponding to the small-scale sector. KFZ
tries to include 1-2 firms from each category in the pre-
qualified list, depending on the size of the contract.
(b)  Tender packages are forwarded to prequalified firms and sealed
bids are returned in 30 days and opened in presence of the Port
Authority Tenders Committee.
(c)  Bid Evaluation - Within seven days bids are analyzed and compared
in terms of responsiveness, capability and price. A report and
recommendation is prepared by consulting engineers and forwarded,
through Port Authority management, for approval.
(d)  Approval - Government Contracts Award Committee (Ministry of Works)
reviews the report; if approved, contracts up to J$200,000 are
forwarded to the Ministry of Public Utilities for final approval and
on larger contracts to the Cabinet for final approval.
8.04      The mission reviewed the documents for contracts qualifying for
retroactive financing (para. 8.07) including the prequalification questionnaire
(based on a standard USAID format), the tender package and an evaluation report
and found them acceptable. Lump sum contract prices are customary but the bids
specify all unit prices so that future adjustments under the "rise and fall"
clause can be applied with little or no room for disagreement. The multi-level
system of contract approval is designed to ensure objectivity and efficient use
of public funds.
8.05      Because of the nature of the project, construction is planned
in phases or slices so that resource commitments do not get too far ahead
of effective demand. As in the past, SFB c2ntracts will normally range
between 5-10 modules, or 32,500 - 65,000 ft , corresponding to a contract
value of between US$0.8-1.6 million. Land filling could be carried out



- 30 -
for the full 17 acres implying a contract of US$1.5 million more or less
(including contingency and price escalation) or divided into two phases.
Contracts for site surcharging are not expected to exceed US$.5 million.
The average size of civil works contracts will tend towards the lower bound,
i.e. in the range of US$0.3-0.8 million (land development), US$0.6-0.7 million
(roads) and US$0.8-1.0 million (factories). Equipment for electrical and
sewer connections will be parl: of factory contracts. Nevertheless, if demand
were to exceed the forecast, requiring an accelerated construction schedule,
larger contracts might be tendered.
8.06      In view of the foregoing discussion, it was agreed that local compe-
titive bidding procedures wouLd continue in accordance with government guide-
lines on all contracts up to IJS$2.0 million. Above that limit, Bank ICB
guidelines would apply. The :Lnternational construction contracting industry
will have access to the work, since among the firms in the approved list there
are several with U.K. and USA associations. Electrical and telephone infra-
structure may be provided by the appropriate public service companies pursuant
to a negotiated contract satisfactory to the Bank. Materials and equipment
which after groupings are est:Lmated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent,
may be procured on the basis of at least three competitive quotations. It was
agreed that the first contract for SFBs and the first one for site filling or
surcharging, roads, water supply and sewerage and all those contracts estimated
to cost more than US$1.0 million will be subject to a priori review and approval
by the Bank at each stage - selection of firms for the short list, tender
document package, contractor selection and the contract itself - and similarly
for all ICB tenders as called for under Bank procurement guidelines.
Retroactive Financing
8.07      In order to meet the demand for factory shells in its ongoing cons-
truction program in the Free Zone, PAJ has used short-term bridge financing
to begin construction of seven SFB's plus two partial shells on Lots 46-54
(para 4.17). It is recommended that the Bank finance retroactively the estimated
foreign costs, US$1.0 million., of this contract. All phases of the procurement
for this contract were reviewed during or after appraisal and were found
acceptable and in accordance with the procedures described in para 5.05.
Retroactive financing would amount to about 8% of the Bank-s loan.
Disbursements
8.08      Direct and indirect foreign exchange costs for the project components
range from an estimated 20% for site preparation to 70% for utilities and related
services, and 90% for TA/Training. As shown in Annex IV Table 3, the average
for the project is 60%. The construction of buildings with a foreign exchange
content of 56% will make up a:Lmost 50% of the total project costs. TA/Training
is the only component (3% of itotal cost) not related to civil works, and it
would be fully financed by the borrower. Project works would be grouped into
three categories, 59% of (i) the expenditures from the first category for
infrastructure, including site preparation and services, and (ii) from the
second category for standard factory fuildings (SFBs), would be financed by
the Bank. The Bank would disburse 100% of foreign expenditures for materials
and equipment in the third caltegory. The proposed loan would not exceed the
60% foreign exchange content of the total project including technical assis-
tance. Estimated Bank disbursements over the four-year project execution



- 31 -
period are shown in Annex IV Table 4. The project is expected to be completed
by December 1986 with disbursements on the loan continuing 9 months longer to
allow for any contract retentions and possible delays in reimbursements.
Disbursements on contracts to be retroactively financed would be made to PAJ,
as it undertook the contract obligations before KFZC was created. On its part
KFZC has received these assets from PAJ pursuant to a 99 year lease and would
assume the liability to repay the Bank's retroactive financing under its
subloan agreement with the Government. Disbursements under the loan for
purposes other than retroactive financing would be made to KFZC.
IX.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
9.01      During loan negotiations agreements were reached with PAJ and KFZC
on the following:
(i)  independent audit of PAJ and KFZ accounts (para 2.05);
(ii)  KFZ to maintain competitive salaries (para 2.09);
(iii) boundaries of the KFZ will be amended and additional land
valued by independent appraiser by September 30, 1982
(para 2.10);
(iv)  preparation of rules and regulations for KFZ acceptable
to the Bank by September 30, 1982 (para 2.12);
(v)  preparation of KFZ's technical assistance and training
plan by June 30, 1982 (para 4.16);
(vi)  local counterpart to be contributed by PAJ and the Government
(para 5.03);
(vii) review of procurement procedures on initial construction
contracts (para 8.06);
(viii) retroactive financing for US$1.0 million (para 8.07);
(ix)  KFZ rental pricing policy (para 6.04); and
(x)  Limitation on KFZC's debt (para 6.07).
9.02      The following would be conditions of loan effectiveness:
(i) appointment of project manager acceptable to the Bank
(para 4.18);
(ii)  signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Government
and KFZC acceptable to the Bank (para. 8.01).
Recommendation
9.03      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan to the Government of Jamaica of US$13.5 million as outlined in
Chapter VIII.



ANNEX I
-32 -                            T-1
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Comparative Movement of Cargo Ships
Cargo Over Break Bulk,
and Container Facilities
Port of Kingston
1969 - 1981
No. of                Volume of Cargo - Wharf Revenue Tons
Year             Cargo Ships              Break Bulk    Container       Totala/
1969               1,285                  1,044,416          -         1,044,416
1970                1,402                1,178,535                    1,178,535
1971                1,261                 1,212,691                   1,212,691
1972                1,215                1,271,951                    1,271,951
1973                1,088                 1,256,748                    1,256,748
1974                  877                1,233,968                    1,233,968
1975                1,025                 1,125,605        173,686    1,299,291
1976                  915                   838,573        441,800    1,280,373
1977                  91.9                  594,797        517,222    1,212,019
1978                1,050                   586,656      1,099,364    1,686,020
1979                1,007                   536,248      1,:L56,809    1,693,057
1980                1,209                   505,288      1,069,656    1,574,944
1981                1,265                   714,518      1,:122,437    1,836,955
Source: Port Authority of Jamaica, February 1982.
a/ Includes transshipment.



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Comparative Cargo Movement
Wharf Revenue Tons
Port of Kingston
1975 - 1981
ContainerizedW'                                     Total
Conventional Break Bulk              Domestic                   Transshipmenta/              Total        Containerized
Year    Import   Export    Total    Import   Export    Total    Import   Export    Total    Containerized   and Break Bulk
1975a-/  740,295  102,864  843,159   331,930  70,948   402,878          -         -       53,254       456,132        1,299,291
1976     709,062  129,511  838,573   172,260  51,518   223,778   113,774  104,248  218,022             441,800        1,280,373
1977     492,837  101,960  594,797   211,703  75,331   287,034   173,371  156,817  330,188             617,222        1,212,019
1978     495,225   91,431  586,656   274,005  78,242   352,247   389,759  357,358  747,117           1,099,364        1,686,020
1979     428,998  107,250  536,248   272,831  69,567   342,398   421,875  392,536  814,411           1,156,809        1,693,057
1980       n.a.      n.a.   505,288   194,999  63,111   258,110   417,723  393,823  811,546          1,069,656         1,574,944
1981     647,014   67,504  714,518   310,706  71,785   382,491   402,296  337,650  739,946           1,122,437         1,836,955
Source:  Port Authority of Jamaica, February 1982.
a/ Container terminal began operations June 1975.                                                                                |x



- 34-
ANNEX II
T- 1
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Construction Status Report
TO DECEMBER 31, 1981
A.   No. of Units                    = 28
B.   AREA A (Main Site)                         AREA (Sq. Ft.)        TOTAL AREA (Sq. Ft.)
(i)    18   at  6,500  sq. ft                 117,000
(ii)    4   at  6,000   "   "                  24,000
(iii)   4   at  5,500   "                      22,000
(iv)    2   at  6,500   "   "                  13,000                 176,000
C.   No. of Cos. in Operation           11          124,000
D.   No. of Cos. not in Operation  =  4              32,500
E.   No. of Units Vacant              =  2           13,000
(One unit used by Free Zone
Administration)                        6,500                176,000
F.   CONSTRUCTION PROGRANME
Units under Construction 1/   =  7             45,500
Committed                       =  5           32,500
Committed                       =  2           13,000
45,500
AREA B. (Coastal Site Separate
from Main Area A)
Antillean Food Processors       =  1            75,000                 75,000
GRAND TOTAL                                                    296,000
Source: Kingston Free Zone Management, December 1981.
1/ The contract includes the partial construction of 2 SFB's to be completed in
two years or when Maidenform Inc. exercises its option to occupy, whichever
comes sooner.



- 35                                                     ANNEX II
T- 2
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Companies Registered and Operating as of December 1980
Companies          Activity                       Present           Projected         Area Leased        Initial Capital             Value of
Employment       Employment        '000 ft2           Investment US$               Sales US$
1981
Prima Manu-         Importation and re-                 8                25              6.5                 50,000                    122,970
facturing          exportation of a wide
range of household and
industrial products.
Nutrition           Stores products for                 8                 8              6.5                 50,000                       NA
Products            school feeding pro-
gram.
West Indies        Animal feeds manu-                   7                35             11.0              1,000,000                 4,000,000
Nutritional         facturing.
Corporations
Doubleway          Import & re-exportation              3                15              6.5                 75,000                     13,778
International      of textiles, motorcycles,
industrial threads, but-
tons and wearing apparel.
Chulani Free        Import & re-export of               5                30              6.5                 50,000                  1,200,000
Zone               electronic prodncts.
David Manu-        Manufactures shirts for             75                75              6.5                350,000                    400,000
facturing          export.
PAN CARIB           Public warehouse opera-            12                12              6.5                 50,000                    417,743
tor.
Lawrence Manu-    Manufactures slacks for             175               175             13.0                350,000                    937,351
facturing          export.
Global Foods       Baby food processing.               21               125             36.0              3,000,000                  2,155,158
Medequip           Manufacturing of medical             2                45              6.5                400,000                      NA
equipment.
Regal Found-       Garment manufacturing.             180               200             13.0                450,000                  1,000,000-L
ations
Total                                                 496               745            118.5          US$5,825.000              US$10,247,000
1/ Projected sales at full production.
Source: Kingston Free Zone Management. December 1981.
November 1981
LCPI1



- 36 -                                                 ANNEX II
JAMAICA                                                 T-3
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Number of Companies Registered but not yet in Operation
Projected Employment
Name of Company                 Area               Activity            at Full Production                 Remarks
Lowell International         6,500 ft2             Trading and                  25              Lease to be signed in April
Trading                                           distribution                                April 1982.
Toni Lu Free Zone Ltd.       6,500 ft2             Manufacture                  75              Lease signed in December
of garments                                  1981.  Jamaican/American
Joint Venture.
Aldrington Investment        6,500 ft2              Ship chandling              25              Lease to be signed in March
1982. Jamaican/American
Joint Venture.
Jamaica Textar              13,000 ft2             Textile                    200               Lease to be signed in Marcn
manufacture                                  1982   Jamaican/American
Joint Venture.
Noel Industries             13,000 ft2             Manufacture             150/600              Lease signed in January
of garments                                  1982 to occupy new SFB's
for occupancy Jan.1982,
possible expansion to
40,000 ft2 in 18 months.
Maiden Form Inc.            19,500 ft2             Manufacture             300/500              Lease aigned October 1981
of garments                                  to occupy 3 new SFB's for
occupancy Jan. 1982 with
option to lease 2 more
within 2 years.
Antillean Foods             75,000 ft2             Fish processing            400               Construction of cold stor-
Processors                                                                                      age, fish processing
plants and administrative
block now in progress.
All facilities expected
to be completed by Dec.
31, 1981.
Source: Kingston Free Zone Management, February 1982.
February 1982
LCPIl



- 37 -
ANNEX III
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Proposed Outline - Operational Rules and Regulations of the KFZ
I. Draft Building Regulations for Owner-Built Factorieslt minimum accep-
table standards and specifications; design approval procedure and
issuance of permits; inspection privileges of KFZ management; proce-
dures for resale or lease to 3rd party, etc.
II. Draft Lease Contract (on rented premises) including, importantly,
pricing formula and payment terms; renewal or assignment of lease;
maintenance requirements and all normal "boiler plate" clauses.
III. Pollution Control - standards for liquid effluent, atmospheric dis-
charge and noise; inspection and testing powers of KFZ management,
enforcement procedures; etc.
IV. Factory Inspections - general working conditions, safety, etc.
V. Hiring Procedures - (need or not for medical exam); use of national
vocational training centers.
VI. Permissable Products and Processes
VII. Disposal of Factory Waste, Scraps and Rejects
VIII. Customs Procedures - General.
1/ These regulations will not be needed if KFZC continues its policy of rental only.
November 1981
LCPI1



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Technical Assistance and Training Program 1982-85
Functional Areas                              man/months    Unit cost    Total          Total
US$        US$          J$
Administration - accounting,' financial
planning, operating guidelines and
regulations, lease contract terms                 6          7,500        45,000       80 100
Policy & Planning - formulation of long
range development plan based on na-
tional economic, sectoral and geo-
graphic priorities; review and
periodic adjustment of the incentive
package                                           6          8,000        48,000       85,440
Engineering - alternative designs  for                                                                                  O
SFB, long range physical planning and                                                                                 a
design, pollution control studies as
needed                                           18          7,000       126,000      224,280
SUBTOTAL Management/Tech. consultants              30           7,300      219,000      389,820
Marketing Promotion - market,sector
and subsector surveys and analysis;
project profiles; public relations
dad adve-tisiug-, fureign travei for
promotional purposes                                                     320,000      569,600
Staff training - costs for travel,
maintenance, and fees related to
training courses and orientation
visits to other free zones.                                              130,000      231,400
TOTAL                                                                      669,000   1,190,820
February 1981
LCPI1



39                                                    ANNEX IV
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Capital Costs and Scheduled Expenditures 1981-1985
(J$ million) !
Calendar year                            Oct.81-Mar.82  Apr.82-Mar.83  Apr.83-Mar.84  Apr.84-Mar.85  Apr.85-Sept.85
Fiscal year                              2nd half FY82       FY 1983         FY 1984          FY 1985      1st half FY86
Percentage Completed (Cumulative)               6            24 (30)          30 (60)         29 (89)        11 (100)        Total
Structures
SFBs                                       2.20             4.40             4.40            4.40             2.20        17.60
Eng./Design/Superv.                          .20             .40               .40            .40               .20         1.60
Physical Contingency                         .12             .24               .24            .24               .12          .96
Subtotal                                 2.52             5.04             5.04            5.04             2.52        20.16
Infrastructure
Shore protection                            -                -                -               .17              -             .17
Site filling                                -                .65               .86            .65              -            2.16
Site surcharging                            _                .75             1.01             .76              -            2.52
Upgrading Old Roads                         -                .12               .23            .17               .06          .58
New Roads & drains                          -                .51             1.01             .76               .25         2.53
Water Supply                                 -               .05               .10            .08               .02          .25
Sewerage                                    -                .20               .40            .30               .10        1.00
Power, telephones                           -                .19               .38            .28               .09          .94
Security Walls                              -                .10               .20            .15               .05          .50
Eng./Design/Superv.                         -                .19               .31            .25               .04          .79
Physical Contingency                        -                .28               .45            .36               .06         1.15
Subtotal                                  -               3.04             4.95            3.93              .67        12.59
Total Construction
Cost (Base) a/                            2.52             8.08             9.99            8.97             3.19        32.75
Price Escalation
Foreign                                    -                .42             1.00            1.31               .61        3.34
Local                                                       .36               .84           1.11               .53        2.83
Subtotal                                  -                .78             1.84            2.42             1.14         6.18
Total Construction Cost                    2.52             8.86            11.83           11.39             4.33         38.93
Technical Assistance and Training c/
Management/Tech. Consultants                 .10             .14               .10            .05               -            .39
Staff Training                              -                .13               .10            -                -             .23
Int. Marketing/Promotion                     .10             .20               .20            ,07              -             .57
Total TA/Training                       .20              .47              .40             .12              -           1.19
TOTAL PROJECT COST                         2.72             9.33            12.23           11.51             4.33        40.12
aT Constant price 1st quarter calendar 1982.
b/ Converted at J$1.78 = USR 1.00.
c/ Unit costs include a factor-for inflation of approximately 10% p.a.
.



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Capital Cost Estimates
1.78 J$ US$
Jamaican $million                               US$ million
Local     Foreign        (X)     Total           Local      Foreign      Total
Structures
SFBs                                         7.03       10.57       (60)      17.60            3.95        5.94        9.89
Eng., design and superv. (9%)                1.44          .16      (10)       1.60              .81        .09         .90
Physical contingency (5%)                     .42         .54       (56)        .96              e24        ;30         .54
Subtotal                                   8.89       11.27       (56)      20.16            5.00        6.33       11.33
Infrastructure
Shore protection                              .07         .10       (60)        .17             .04         .06         .10
Site filling                                  .54        1.62       (75)       2.16             .30         .91        1.21
Site surcharging                              .63        1.89       (75)       2.52             .35        1.06        1.41
Upgrading old roads                            .20         .38      (65)        .58              .11         .21         .33
New roads and drains                           .88       1.65       (65)       2.53              .49         .93       1.42
Water supply                                   .07         .18      (70)        .25              .04         .10         .14
Sewerage                                      .40         .60       (60)       1.00             .22         .34         .56
Power & Telephone                              .28        .66       (70)        .94              .16         .37        .53
Security walls                                .20         .30       (60)        .50             .11         .17         .28
Eng., design and superv. (7 1/2%)              .63        .16       (20)        .79              .35         .09        .44
Physical contingency (10%)                    .40         .75       (65)       I-e -5                      .42         .64
Subtotal                                   4.30        8.29       (65)      12.59            2.41        4.66        7.07
Price escalation                             2.83        3.35       (54)       6.18            1.59        1.88        3.47
Total construction cost                     16.02       22.91       (54)      38.93            9.00       12.87       21.87      w 
Technical Assistance and Training
Management/Tech. consultants                   .06         .33      (85)        .39              .03         .19         .22
Market promotion                               .03         .54      (95)        .57              .02         .30         .32
Staff training                                .02         .21       (90)        .23              .01        .12         .13
Total TA/training                             .11        1.08       (90)       1.19              .06         .61        .67
TOTAL PROJECT COST                          16.13       24.00       (60)      40.12            9.06       13.48       22.54
January 1, 1982
LCPIL



- 41 -
ANNEX IV
T-4
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of the Proposed Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter           Cumulative Disbursements at end of Quarter
(US$ thousands)
FY 1983
September 30, 1982                                    400
December 31, 1982                                     800
March 31, 1983                                      1,742
June 30, 1983                                       2,242
FY 1984
September 30, 1983                                  2,742
December 31, 1983                                   3,342
March 31, 1984                                      4,102
June  30, 1984                                      4,902
FY 1985
September 30, 1984                                  5,702
December 31, 1984                                   6,602
March 31, 1985                                      7,529
June  30, 1985                                      8,329
FY 1986
September 30, 1985                                  9,129
December 31, 1985                                   9,929
March 31, 1986                                     10,787
June  30, 1986                                     11,387
FY 1987
September 30, 1986                                 11,887
December 31, 1986                                  12,387
March 31, 1987                                     12,922
June 30, 1987                                      13,184
FY 1988
September 30, 1987                                 13,500



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
PAJ - Income Statement
(J$000)
-------------------Forecast-------------------------------------
Years Ending March 31,        1978       1979         1980         1981-/        1982         1983          1984         1985          1986         1987           1988
Income
Port revenue                 4,125    5,606         6,577        6,455         6,200        6,836         7,177        7,536         7,913        8,309          8,725
Transhipment                 2,037    3,873         4,601        5,200         6,510        8,696         9,202        9,960        10,357       12,030         12,631
Tug Fees                       -         -            -          1,349         1,630        2,144         2,307        2,593         2,918        3,287          3,698
KFZ Rental                     111       179          242          548           -            -                                 -             -                    -
Oth1e-r                        221       285          366          402           500          540           550          575           600          625            650
Total                     6,494    9,943       11,786        13,954       14,840        18,216       19,236        20,664       21,788        24,251        25,704
Expenses
Administration                 786    1,291         1,631        1,891         2.502        2,752         3,027        3,330         3,663        4,029          4,431
Harbours                       843    1,009        1,301         1,600         1,840        2,024         2,225        2,450         2,700        2,970          3,267
Transhipment                      9        21          54           15            50           50            75            75          100           110           121
Tugs                           -         -            -          1,154         1,346        1,481         1,629        1,792         1,971        2,168          2,385
KFZ                            158       207          335          444           -            -             -            -             -            -              -
Total                     1,796    2,528        3,321         5,104        5,738         6,307        6,956         7,647        8,434         9,277        10,204
Net Working Revenue            4,698    7,415         8,465        8,850         9,102       11,909        12,280       13,017        13,354       14,974         15,500
Depreciation                      540    1,172        1,311        2,000         2,115        2,516         2,860        3,118         3,310         3,397         3,483
Interest                       1,545    2,151         2,072        3,200         3,887        4,679         4,657        4,532         4,213        3,605          2,889
Met incom.e                    2,613    4,092         5,082        3,650         3,100        4,714         4,763        5,367         5,831         7,972         9,128
Foreign  Exchange Loss        (6,420)  (6,220)         (769)
Ext.aordinary Loss            (3,807)   (2,128)       4,313
1/  Unaudited.
February, 1982
LCPI1



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
PAJ - Sources and Uses of Funds
(J$000)
__________________---------Forecast         ------ -= -------- ----- -
Year Ending March 31,                  1978           1979        1980       1981-/      1982        1983         1984        1985         1986        1987        1988
Sources of Funds
Net Income                          (3,807)        (2,128)      4,313      3,650       3,100       4,714        4,763       5,367        5,831       7,972       9,128
Depreciation                           429          1,172       1,311      2,000       2,115       2,516        2,860       3,118       3,310        3,397       3,483
Cash from operations              (3,378)          (956)      5,624      5,650      5,215        7,230       7,623        8,485       9,141      11,369       12,611
Borrowing - KFZ                        -              200         800      1,511         -           -            -           -            -           -           -
- PAJ                        47         1,785      18,383      11,739      5,000        6,000       5,000       5,000        1,500          -           -
Increase in Accounts Payable         1,918            791      (2,746)        708      2,500         -            -           -            500         -           500
Foreign Exchange Loss                6,598         6,220          769         --                                  -                              -                 -
Other Assets                            30             19          25         -        2,227-Z'      -            -           -            -           -            -_ 
Total Sources                        5,215          8,059      22,855     19,608    14,942        13,230      12,623       13,485      11,141       11,369      13,111
Uses of Funds
KFZ Investment                         -               93       4,709      1,511         800       1,290        1,640       1,580          600         -            -
PAJ Fixed Assets                     1,968          3,815      11,784    13,713        7,000       8,000        6,000       6,000       2,500        2,000       2,500
Increase in Other Assets                50              7         (16)        570        -           -           (500)        -           (100)        -           -
Repayments - KFZ                       -              -           -            95      2,416-        -            -           -            -           -            -
- PAJ                   1,962          2,766        2,911      3,461      4,180        5,268       6,115        6,731       7,345        7,515       7,465
Increase in Acct. Receivable         1,035            842       2,358      1,645       1,000      (2,000)      (1,000)        -            500         500         -
Total Uses                           5,015          7,523      21,746     20,995    15,396        12,558      12,255       14,311      10,845       10,015       9,965
Change in Cash                         200            536       1,109      (1,387)      (454)        672          368        (826)         296       1,354       3,146
Debt Service Coverage Ratio                                      1.54       1.31       1.15          1.20        1.14         1.16        1.15        1.35        1.50
1/  Unaudited.
2/  Reduction in PAJ's equity in KFZ by amount of outstanding debt transferred to KFZC.
3/  Represents transfer of KFZ associated debts to New KFZ Company plus annual repayment
of J$189,000 made during year.
February, 1982
LCPIl



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
PAJ - Balance Sheet
(J$000)
--------------Forecast-------------------------------------
Years Ending March 31,                  1977    1978       1979      1980      1981-/'   1982       1983       1984        1985        1986        1987        1988
Cash                                1,070    1,252    1,786    2,897    1,510    1,056          1,728      2,096       1,210       1,566       2,432       5,578
Accounts Receivable                 1,102    2,155    2,997    5,355    7,000    8,000          6,000      5,000       5,000       5,500       6,000       6,000
Current Assets                      2,172    3,407    4,783    8,252    8,510    9,056          7,728      7,096       6,270       7,066       8,432      11,578
Land Bank                          12,461   15,785   15,785   15,785   15,785   15,785    15,785    15,785            15,785      15,785      15,785      15,785
Free Zone Fixed Assets (Net)        2,254    2,254    2,447    7,081    8,492    7,065          8,355      9,995      11,575      12,175      12.663      12,663
PAJ'Fixed Assets (Net)             15,723a/ 22,873a/ 31,339a/ 39,687   51,500   56,385    61,869    65,009            67,891      67,081      65,684      64,701
Other Assets                           43        80        86        70       640      640        640        140         140           40          40          40
Total Assets                       32,653   44X399   54z441   709,75   84,927   88,931    94,377    98,025    101,661    102,147    10_ 604    104 767
Accounts Payable                    2,546    3,747    4,538    1,792    2,500    5,000          5,000      5,000       5,000       5,500       5,500       6,000
Land Bank Obligations              12,461   12,546   12,546   12,546   12,546   12,546    12,546    12,546            12,546      12,546      12,546      12,546
Long-Term Debts - Free Zone           -         -         200    1,000    2,416        -          -          -           -           -            -          -
Long-Term Debts - PAJ              14,410   19,724   24,963   38,077   46,355   47,175    47,907    46,792            45,061      39,216      31,701      24,236
Capital and Reserves                3,236    8,382   12,195   17,460   21,110   24,210    28,924    33,687            39,054      44,885      52,857      61,985
Total Liabilities and Capital   32,653   44,399   54,441   70,875   84,927   88,931    94,377    98.025    101,661    12,14 7    102,6 4    104,767
Debt:  Equity Ratio b/              82:18    70:30    67:33    69:31    70:30    66:34          62:38      58:42       53:47       47:53       37:63       28:72
a/ Assets revalued.
b/ Does not include Land Bank obligations and accounts payable.
c; unaudited.
February, 1982
LCPIl



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
KFZ Pro forma Income Statement
(Jmoon)
1980        1981E/       1982-/       1983         1984          1985         1986          1987          1988           1989
Rental Revenue c/                 242          548          780        1,623         2,752        4,168        5,727         6,859          7,818         8,426
Operating Costs 
Management Contract              -            -            -           100           100          100          100           100            100           100
Personnel                       179          219          350          450           520          600          680           760            820           890
Utilities                        25           25           56           65            74           85           98           105            114           123
Promotion                        75          109          260          230           200          216          233           251            272           294
Insur., legal, audit             14           44           60           80          110           150          190           210           220            230
Office and General               21           19           80           88           100          115          132           143            154           166
Eng. and Maintenance             21           28           90            70           78           90          103           119            136           156
TOTAL                        335           444          896        1,083        1,182        1,356        1,536          1,688         1,816         1,959
Net Working  Revenue              (93)         104         (116)         540        1,570         2,812        4,191         5,171         6,002          6,467
Depreciation                       75          100          215          282           503          800        1,084         1,193         1,193          1,193
Interest JNIC                      38          200          193          178          163           148          133           118            103            88
IBRD                     -            -            -           349           765       1,339         2,033         2,561         2,608          2,436
overdraft                _            _            -           420           800          830          900           345            -             -
Subtotal Interest             38          200           193          947        1,728        2,317        3,066          3,024         2,711         2,524
Net Income                        205         (195)        (524)        (689)         (661)        (305)          41           954         2,098          2,750
a/  Unaudited.
b/  Based on 9 months actual.
c/  Collected in US$.
d/ Paid in local currency with the exception of some foreign promotion expenses.
February 1982



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
KFZ Pro forma Sources and Uses of Funds
(J$OOO)
Year ending March 31                   1979    1980      1981      1982      1983        1984        1985         1986         1987       1988      1989
Sources of Funds
Net Income (or loss)                   -       -        (195)    (524)    (689)         (661)       (305)          41          954     2,098      2,750
Depreciation                          _                  100       215       282         503         800        1,084        1,193     1,193      1,193
Cash Generated from Operations                           (95)    (309)    (407)         (158)        495       1,125        2,147      3,291      3,943
Borrowing JNIC                         -       800    1,511         -         -           _
Borrowing IBRD                                 -          -         -      3 00       4,200       6,100        5,800        3,800      1,000         -
Overdraft a/                           -       -          -      1,758    3,418        3,569         760       (3,939)      (4,767)      (799)        -
Subtotal                               -       800    1,511    1,758    6,518          7,769      6,860        1,861          (967)      201         -
Equity PAJ                            140    3,909       290       800    1,290        1,640      1,580           600           -          -          -
Equity GOV                             -       -          -         -      2,235       2,855      2,750         1,045           -          -
Subtotal                              140    3,909       290       800    3,525        4,495      4,330         1,645           -          -
Total Sources                          93    4,709    1,706    2,249    9,636         12,106     11,685         4,631        1,180      3,492     3,943
Uses of Funds
Increase in Fixed Assets               93    4,709    1,511    2,000    9,380        11,830      11,390        4,330            -          -
Repayment of Loans                     -                  95       189       189         189         189          189        1,114      2,039      2,039
Increase in Net Working Capital        -       -         100        60        67          87         106          112           66         34         -
Total Uses                             93    4,709    1,706    2,249    9,636         12,106      11,685        4,631        1,180      2,073     2,039
differe ..... ce to cash-                            -         -        -          -           -           -                   -          ',4i9   i.904
Debt Service Coverage Ratio            -        -         -         -        .48        .82        1.12         1.29          1.25       1.26      1.42
a/  Amounts in parentheses are reductions in short-term overdrafts.
b/  Represents short-term liability to PAJ for reimbursement of World Bank loan.
February 1982



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
KFZ Pro forma Balance Sheet
(J$000)
Year ending March 31              1979      1980      1981-/    1982        1983       1984       1985       1986        1987         1988        1989
Assets
Cash                                                      -          -          -          -          -          -            -         1,419       3,323
Net Working Capital                   -         -         100        160        227        314        420         532         598         632         632
Fixed Assets                        2,372    7,081    8,592    10,592    19,972    31,802    43,192    47,522             47,522      47,522       47,522
Less Accum. Deprec.                   -         -        -100      - 315      - 597    -1,100    -1.,900    -2.94E'       -4,177       -5,370      -6,563
Net Fixed Assets                    2,372    7,081    8,492    10,277    19,375    30,702    41,292    44,538             43.34S       42,152      40,959
Total Assets                        2,372    7,081    8,592    10,437    19,602    31,016    41,712    45,070             43,943       44,203      44,914
Liabilities
Short-term Overdrafts                 -         -         -        1,758-/   5,176       8,745      9,505      5,566          799         -           -
Long-term Debt
JNIC                                200    1,000    2,416        2,227      2,038      1,849      1,660      1,471       1,282       1,093          904
IBRD                                -         -         -          -        3,100      7,300    13,400    19,200        22,075      21,225      19,375
Subtotal Long-term debt               200    1,000    2,416        2,227      5,138      9,149    15,060    20,671        23,357      22,318       20,279
Capital
Equity PAJ                          2,172    6,081    6,371        7,171      8,461    10,101    11,681    12,281         12,281       12,281      12,281
GOV                           -         -         -           -       2,235       5,090      7,840     8,885        8,885       8,885       8,885
Surplus                               -         -        (195)      (719)   (1,408)    (2,069)   (2,374)    (2,333)       (1,379)         719       3,469
Total Capital                       2,172    6,081    6,176        6,452      9,288    13,122    17,147    18,833         19,787       21,885      24,635
Total Liabilities & Capital         2,372    7,081    8,592    10,437    19,602    31,016    41,712    45,070             43,943       44,203      44,914
Debt: Equity Ratio                    -       14:86    28:72       38:62      53:47      58:42      59:41      58:42       55:45        50:50       45:55
o/ Unaudited
b/ Liability to PAJ for reimbursement from World Bank loan (no interest charged).
February 1982



- 48 -
JAMAICA                                  ANNEX VI
T-1
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Internal Financial Rate of Return Base Case
(J$000 Constant Jan. 1982 Prices)
Total Costs                        Total Benefits
Year    Investment    Marg. Op. Cost.    Rents    Net Stream
1982       $2,520            $200           $   73       $(2,647)
1983        8,067             275               707       (7,635)
1984        9,994             350            1,578        (E,766)
1985        8,966             410            2,516        (6,860)
1986        3,206             460            3,448          (218)
1987          -               480            3,874         2,394
1988          -               500            3,952         2,452
1989          -               500            3,952         ,,452
1990          -               500            3,952         2,452
1991          -              500             3,952         2,452
1992          -               500            3,952         2,452
1993          -               500            3,952         -,452
1994          -               500            3,952         ,,452
1995          -               500            3,952         3,452
1996          -               500            3,952         2,452
1997          -               500            3,952         3,452
1998          -               500            3,952         ],452
1999          -               500            3,952         2,452
2000          -               500            3,952         2,452
2001          -               500            3,952         _,452
2002          -               500            3,952         2,452
2003          -               500            3,952         _,452
2004      (16,375)            500            3,952        1S,827
Return on Investment = 9.632%
Notes:
(1) Residual Value of Assets = J$ 16,375
(2)  Rental Rates (US$/SQ. FT./YEAR):3.50 in 1982-83,
3.90 in 1984-85, 4.25 in 1986.
(3)  Exchange Rate:  US$ 1 = J$ 1.788.
(4)  Years are Fiscal Ending March 31.



- 49 -
ANNEX VI
JAMAICA                                   T-2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Base Case
(J$000 Constant Jan. 1982 Prices)
Total Costs                        Total Benefits
Year    Investment       Marg. Op. Cost.   Rents  Employment Effect    Net Stream
1982     $ 2,540              $200          $   88      $   300             $(2,352)
1983        3,131              275             848          880              (6,678)
1984       10,074              350           1,893        1,543              (6,988)
1985        9,037              410           3,019        3,124              (3,304)
1986        3,231              460           4,138        4,686               5,133
1987          -                480           4,649        6,250              10,419
1988          -                500           4,742        7,810              12,052
1990          -                500           4,742        9,372              13,614
1991          -                500           4,742       10,190              14,432
1992          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1993          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1994          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1995          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1996          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1997          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1998          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
1999          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
2000          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
2001          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
2002          -                 500          4,742       11,022              15,264
2003          -                500           4,742       11,022              15,264
2004       16,509              500           4,742       11,022              31,773
Return on investment = 35.393%
Notes:
(1) Residual Value of Assets = J$ 16,509
(2) Rental Rates (US$/SQ. FT./YEAR): 3.50 in 1982-83,
3.90 in 1984-85, 4.25 in 1986.
(3) Exchange Rate:  US$ 1 = J$ 1.788.
(4) Years are Fiscal Ending March 31.



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
PAJ Organizational Chart - 1981
|Ministry of Transport
L&Public Utilities
IChairman and1
|Board P.A.|
G ne al Managerl
Director                Director                 Manager         Director                  Director          Chief
Administration &        Engineering and          Free Zone       Harbours and              Legal             Research Planning
Finance                 Port Development                         Port Services                r -           i& Marketing
Accounts Payable         Planning                                Dangerous Cargo           Legal Affairs      Advertising
Accounts Receivable      Design                                  Hydrographical Surv.      Secretary to       Marketing
Insurance                Construction                            Navigational Aids           the Board        Public Relations
Internal Audit           Liasion w/Consultants                   Operation of Ferry                           Research
a  Office Management        Contractors & Financial                 Service                                      Statistics
o  Personnel                Institutions                            Operation Air/Sea
Salaries                 Project Appraisal and                   Rescue
a  Security                 Analysis                                Pilotage Service
X4 Transportation           Project Approval                        Maintenance of Ports
Budgets - Prepara-       Port Development and                      and Harbors
tion - Control         Improvement                             Training of Seamen
Monitoring Port                         Examination for License
Facilities                                Masters, Mates, Boats
.   38 Staff                2 Engineers              24 Staff        40 Pilots                 1 Lawyer           2 Economists
4.1
n                           1 Quantity Surveyor                     90 Harbor Staff           1 Secretary        2 Statistical Clerk
1 Draftsman                             130 Total                  2 Total            4 Total
a4                          2 Secretaris
X                          6 Total
x
Total Staff as of end FY 81 - 220
Source: Kingston Free Zone Management, December 1980



JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KINGSTON FREE ZONE PROJECT
Proposed KFZ Organization Chart
lFree Zone|
Manager |
Chief of Planning & Development          Chief o  Administration             Chief of Marketing & Promotion
Planning                           Personnel, payroll                       Research Economics
Design                             Accounting                               Statistics
Contract Administration            Billing & Collection                     Legal
o             Project Appraisal &                 Disbursements                           Promotion
v               Analysis                                                                  International Public
5             Maintenance                                                                   Relations
44            Sanitation                                                                  Local Government Re-
Secutiry                                                                      lations
44    ~     -1 Free Zone Manager                                                      3 Promotion Officers
1 Chief of Planning and Dev.             1 Chief Accountant                    1 Lawyer/Promotion Officer
1 Security Officer                       1 Senior Secretary                    1 Statistical Clerk
3 Security Supervisors                   1 Receptionist/typist                 1 Secretary
'H     9 Security Guards                        1 Messenger                           6 Total
1 Maintenance Worker                     1 Attendant
x    15 Total                                   1Office cleaner
X  Total
e      1 Project Engineer                                                             1 Economist
3 Maintenance                            2 Accounts Clerk                      1 Secretary
4-4    3 Security                               1 Secretary                           2 Total
to    7 Total                                   3 Total
February 1982
LCPI11



ANNEX VIII
- 52 -
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KI.NGSTONq FREE ZONE PROJECT
Project File
1.   Port Authoritv of Jamaica, Annual Reports and ViInancial
Statements for FY 1978-1980.
2.   Kingston Export Free Zone Act, 1980.
3.   Kingston Free Zone Handbook.
4.   Kingston Free Zone Fact Sheet for Corporate Decision. Makers.
5.   Kingston Free Zone, Physical and Economic Feasibility Plan
January 1980, Prepared by JNIC as Consultant,
6.   Consultant's Report - Ishmail Dalla, Jamaica Marnufacturing
Sector, Past, Present and Future Prospects, January 1981.
7.   Consultant's Report - Richard Lea, Geotechnical Engineer,
Interim Report, Feasibility of Proposed Site Preparation and
Foundation Support, Expansion Project for Kingston Free Zone,
December 1981.
8.   Memorandum and Articles of Association, Kingston Free Zone Company Ltd.
9.   Management Services Agreement Between KFZC and ]'AJ dated
February 9, 1982.
10.   Lease of PAJ property associated with the Free Zone to KFZC.
11.   KFZC Technical Assistance and TrainLng Program dated January 27, 1982.



IERD 15663
MAY 1981
0   ~ <   MlLES                                                    JAMAICA
K            t               o          s                                      KINGSTON  FREE ZONE PROJECT                                                                                   PROJECT
) W~~~~~~~~~ILOMEtERS FreZn
< Free Zone
FUTURE
g   ARE4   OF  AVAF   \          {                                                                                                   | ~~~ ~~~~  ~     ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CONS INN  'a9n   rood
SPA/NC         ~~EXISTING.
KINGSTON            \z                                                                                                                                            (               [Lif  Induniriel Esrete
ETROPOLITAN                                                                                                                                                                                 Cerl   siness Dstrict
) AREA                                            CR                                                                                                                                                     AARO ERIEt /   lA  _   Kow Income Resieni Area (on Kigs)
T  . ISh                                                                                       OF5; i GARAIENS                       - Rorlrond.
%'    :tfNUGNC    Kingston Metrrepolitan Area BoundarYr
N~~~~~~~~~~~N
,J,  .. _,, _ \ \, f/                                P9 tt              2, iAMAVV6ICA AOSXCFf7Db9hVPaAP \    l s h   -C                                                                  B-d-r e
THA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    A9OA
70/   /                                                                                                      tt2r -
25~ SN                                                                   .                                         A        ?
0   tEAHAMAS    ' '    @q           \                                             ,-::   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ tnterrlrvtonOl    - ~~~~~~~~~~~ i . 1.'.   g =ntenatono
MEXICO CUAi~rno'.T/   ~.XiS-./
-rLAiSInit    I,                                      jv>-                                                                                                                                     MILES .- :'    /   0  2
BtiDE             JAMA rCA     ~         -   RLUooRcr IC                                                                 I                                                                                              __________________E
Span sk~~~~~~~~U                                                                                                                                                 i             
a, tN/Co rC I A                  7'          7                                  
TLOi-- 
..    .. .....
nor 5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~VVYA,



A



IBRD 15664
r  |   } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ cx ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~JAMAICA                                                                                                                      MAY 1981
| v / ~~~~KINGSTON  FREE ZONE PROJECT
X    | l ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ == ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~           < ~~~~~Pr(oFect Development Area                 EXISTING:
/                                                                                 (F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ree Zone, Phase I)  0  cEI  Port Buildings
, t | 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Area of Future Development :CrngEqimt
Gr Jz L:                                 Xwr Future Cranage Equipment                                                     S                         fu _u
r 2 L < -t C<0 ( v4 | 1 )<( ) U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                     I
rS                                                              -                                                                       at1   z< wE
______________________________               ~~FIRST   STREETEIi I  
/I.                  F7         1      Planned Terminal Expansion              SEOD                  SREET
EXISTING  CONTAINER TERMINAL               THR                  S
97N                     EM                    ME=E[|[:S
,/-, ,_ ,-k ---                                ---
0             500            1000
FEET
JAMAIC A
/   /                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Future             9BAHAM 0S
HA 5h7 12/                                      /                       Container                                                     SA,u/        F^AHAS
Terminal
Th.s ap u hs b-s prepared btue ,h  \           /
the d    're ntae,ayf th e o_/                             - //          /        /                                                                                                                    CUBA                 20
t, et tt l~.  s attached      \       ~       _      __--                                                                                                                                                           A
hund-r-es shown on tu.. map- -                                                                                                                                                                                        HAITI, qE
do no- nnpyy on the part of the                                                                                                                                              2 \                     JAMAICA
World hank and 'ha ahhhlatea, any      \__                                                                                                            __ E                           UZ
u,dg-et on the -,  ttso                 4\i                                                                         t)r<8LZ      
any-trty terrory ant a dren\E
or accept-an of,      \ucl b-otd-ee                                                                                                                                          Li hHNuuBAT                80
9p



