Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 18485 - LV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF DEM 8.585 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FORA
STATE REVENUE SERVICE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
October 30, 1998
Baltics and Poland
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective October 28, 1998)
Currency Unit = Lat
LC = US$1.73
US$O.577 = LC
LATVIA - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASYCUDA           -      Automated System for Customs Data
CIS               -      Customs Information Systems
CIT               -      Corporate Income Tax
CY                -      Calendar Year
EU                -      European Union
FY                -      Fiscal Year
GDP               -      Gross Domestic Product
IMF               -      International Monetary Fund
IRR               -      Internal Rate of Return
IT                -      Information Technology
LAN               -      Local Area Network
MOF               -      Ministry of Finance
NPV               -      Net Present Value
PIT               -      Personal Income Tax
PIU               -      Project Implementation Unit
SOE               -      Statement of Expenditures
SRS               -      State Revenue Service
VIES              -      VAT Information Exchange Systems
VAT               -      Value Added Tax
WAN               -      Wide Area Network
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director:  Basil Kavalsky, ECCPL
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra, ECSPE
Team Leader:  Mansour Farsad, ECSPE



Republic of Latvia
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ............................2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context                            ..2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
C. Project Description Summary                        .9
1. Project components
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
3. Benefits and target population
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
D. Project Rationale .13
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
E. Summary Project Analyses .16
1. Economic
2. Financial
3. Technical
4. Institutional
5. Social
6. Environmental assessment
7. Participatory approach
F. Sustainability and Risks .18
1. Sustainability
2. Critical risks
3. Possible controversial aspects



G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                          20
1. Effectiveness conditions
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation        ........................ 20
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                 20
Annexes
Annex 1.  Project Design Summary .21
Annex 2. Project Description .24
Annex 3.  Estimated Project Costs .33
Annex 4.  Cost-Recovery Analysis Summary .34
Annex 5. Financial Summary .36
Annex 6.    Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .37
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B. Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1: Procurement Review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and
Technical Assistance requirements.
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing.
Section 5: Procurement Plan.
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Table D. Disbursement Categories
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule .45
Annex 8.  Documents in Project File .46
Annex 9.    Statement of Loans and Credits .47
Annex 10. Country at a Glance .48
Annex 11.  Latvia Taxes, Summary of the Main Features .50
MAP



LATVIA
STATE REVENUE SERVICE MODERNIZATION PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Baltics and Poland
Date: October 30, 1998                              Task Team Leader: Mansour Farsad
Country Director: Basil Kavalsky          Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Project ID: LV-PE55585  Sector: Public Sector       Program Objective Category: Economic Management
Management
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention:   []  Yes  [ x ] No
Project Financing Data               [x] Loan       [ ] Credit      [] Guarantee      [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: DEM 8.585 million
Proposed terms:                        []   Multicurrency     [x ] Single currency DEM
Grace period (years): 3           []   Standard Variable  [x ] Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%
Service charge: 0%
Financing plan (US$M):
Source:                                             Local Exp.         Foreign Exp.      Total Exp.
Government                                           17.91              22.73            40.64
Cofinanciers
IBRD                                                  0.56               4.49             5.05
IDA
Total        18.47              27.22            45.69
Borrower: Government of Latvia
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: State Revenue Service
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):               1999       2000      2001    2002   2003
Annual                0.81       1.67      1.57    0.86   0.14
Cumulative               0.81       2.48      4.05    4.91    5.05
Amortization Every 6 months
profile
Project implementation period: January 1, 1998 to December 31, 2002
Expected effectiveness date: January 5, 1999                          Expected closing date: June 30, 2003



Page 2
A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and keyperformance indicators (see Annex 1):
The project objective is to support the development of:
*  A revenue system that promotes sustainable revenue performance on the basis of voluntary
compliance, reducing corruption and evasion, and facilitates private sector development by
lowering compliance costs and tax rates.
*  A State Revenue Service (SRS) that efficiently, equitably and honestly administers tax and
customs laws and is equipped with modem business processes, management systems, and
operational tools.
Key performance indicators:
*  Sustained revenue performance.
*  Reduced compliance costs.
*  Decline in arrears, evasion and contraband traffic.
*  Improved transparency and integrity of the revenue administration system.
*  A more equitable distribution of effective tax burden, through increased compliance.
*  Reduction in tax rates, in particular the social insurance contribution rate, starting the year
2002.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
The project will further the identified objectives in the CAS for Bank support to Latvia, including
reshaping the role of the state, improving public sector management, promoting private sector
development, and reducing corruption. In particular, by contributing to revenue sustainability and
increasing compliance on a broader base, the project will allow the Government to maintain
macroeconomic stability, to preserve social expenditures, and to achieve the objective of reducing the tax
burden.
CAS document number:        17706-LV           Date of CAS discussion: May 19, 1998
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
To date, Latvia's fiscal system has shown considerable success in maintaining its revenue
performance during the country's continuing economic transformation. This success has rested on both
tax and non-tax sources -- most notably VAT on traded goods and privatization receipts. Two challenges
remain. First, as the privatization process ends and as the private sector expands, the actual tax base must
be widened to avoid a deterioration in revenue collection. As witnessed in other transitional economies,
substantial revenues can readily slip beyond the reach of tax administrators, as the number and diversity
of private enterprises increases and as their sophistication in tax avoidance grows. Second, since
complying with tax and customs regulations represents costs to productive agents and since uneven
administration of these regulations distorts costs and relative prices, the administrator must minimize the
cost of compliance and increase the uniformity of revenue administration to prevent these factors from
retarding long-term growth. In short, revenue administration goes beyond mere revenue performance as
measured by the revenue to GDP ratios. It must encompass non-revenue aspects, such as the equity of
the tax burden, the credibility of the administrator to monitor and enforce compliance, the transparency



Page 3
and honesty of administration, as well as the quality of services provided to taxpayers and to those
engaged in international trade and transport.
Revenue administration in Latvia needs organizational and administrative arrangements that
match Latvia's success in its transition to a market economy. Organization structures of the SRS are still
somewhat disjointed and administrative arrangements (including its operational and management
systems) embody a large measure of temporary and interim solutions. To improve these systems, the
SRS has embarked on a broad-based modernization program. This program entails an integrated set of
investments to strengthen its organizational, management and operational capabilities, to address the
following challenges:
(i)    Ensuring stable and predictable revenue flows, during a period of far-reaching structural
changes in the economy, to meet various demands on the budget and maintain the overall
fiscal balance.
(ii)   Improving tax and customs compliance and revenue collection, to enable a reduction in
tax rates (particularly those on social insurance contribution and foster private sector
development, employment growth and the expansion of the formal economy.
(iii)  Improving the overall quality of taxpayer and customs services, to reduce the time and
financial costs associated with compliance and with tax, customs and social insurance
regulations.
(iv)   Improving transparency of the revenue administration system and reducing opportunities
and incentives for corruption.
(v)    Facilitating trade and meeting EU standards in tax and customs administration, to prepare
for EU accession.
(vi)  Improving the overall organizational effectiveness and efficiency of the SRS, to make the
best use of the human, material and information resources available to it.
(vii)  Strengthening SRS human resources and redesigning the pay system, to ensure high
quality staff with defined career paths and commitment to the organization.
(i) Ensuring stable and predictable revenue flows
Since 1995, when the twin banking and fiscal crises led to a loss of confidence in the economy
and a disruption in economic growth, the Latvian Government has embarked on a number of fiscal
measures to control expenditures and to bring the general government budget into balance (Table 1).
Table 1- Selected Financial Indicators, 1993-97
(in percent of GDP)
1993       1994        1995        1996 [      1997
Revenue                  36.4        36.5        35.5        36.8       39.9
Expenditure              35.3 J      38.2 I      38.2        38.0     38.2
Financial balance         1.0        -1.7 l      -2.7        -1.2         1.6
Net lending       i      -0.4        -2.3 l      -0.6        -0.2        -0.3
Fiscal balance             0.6       4.0         -3.3        -131.3
L _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _         . 6        4 0I-1                   3 [1        3



Page 4
Although the ratio of total revenue to GDP has risen considerably from 35.5% in 1995 to 39.9%
in 1997, the ratio of tax revenue to GDP has remained relatively stable at around 32%-33% of GDP
(Table 2). The continued revenue flows from non-tax sources, including privatization receipts, have
contributed to the overall rise in total revenues. With the continuing demand on fiscal resources
associated with EU accession and other reform objectives, the Government has declared adequate and
sustainable revenue performance as a primary macroeconomic goal.
In recent years, the revenue performance of the various taxes has been mixed. Taxes on goods
and services have grown considerably with the increase in imports. Tax revenues from personal income
have also increased. However, tax revenues on profits of enterprises have fallen significantly. Revenues
from the social tax have also declined somewhat, despite a substantial increase in private enterprise
employment and higher private sector wage payments. These trends suggest that tax compliance has been
low and that the business community has adopted a less compliant attitude towards paying taxes.
Table 2 -Tax Revenue to Central Government and Social insurance, 1994-97
(as a percentage of GDP)
19941        19951        19961        1997
Taxeson profits                         372.72                     2.0          2.41
Taxesonpersonal incon el         .     4.6oe        5.1           5            5.5
Social insurance taxes       .l.6;                  11.7.          11.2i       1 .41
Tx_eson goods and serices              12            11.8         13.4'        13. |
Otheratxes              -     j                       1.0          0.50:21
32.2         31.6         32.4i        33.0
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ..._._. _....................   ... .  ... .... ..,     ,.....   ....,,  .. ...   .  ..... .,  ..,,. .., ......... ... ... ... ....  . . .....  L..,.... ..    ..........  ......
(ii)   Improving compliance and revenue collections and widening the tax base
Improving compliance critically hinges on the institutional capacity of the revenue administration
system to monitor and control taxpayer and customs declarations. International experience suggests that,
during the period of transition to a market economy, revenue administration is severely tested by corrupt
taxpayers and officials, by increased incidences of bankruptcies, high volumes of cash and cross-border
transactions, high levels of evasion and arrears, and the growth of the informal economy. Latvia has been
no exception. Since 1995, privatization has led to a significant decline in the number of state-owned
enterprises and a sharp increase in the number of hard-to-tax private entrepreneurs. Cash transactions, as
measured by the ratio of the base money to money and quasi-money, have increased from 30% in 1994 to
37% in 1997, while the share of the informal sector in the economy is estimated to have grown to around
25% of GDP.
Tax evasion and tax arrears have remained large as a share of GDP. The SRS estimates that tax
evasion amounted to about 15% of GDP in 1997. Total tax arrears (including social tax arrears) increased
from about 7% of GDP in 1995 to about 10% of GDP in 1997. This reflected the deterioration in the
financial position of many undercapitalized, poorly managed new enterprises. It also reflected inadequate
effort to collect tax debts. With the increased efforts to collect the tax debt, however, the level of arrears
has stabilized since the beginning of 1997. Tax exemptions (on profits and VAT) granted to business
activities in the four newly established free economic zones have resulted in loss of revenues estimated at
about 3.2% of the consolidated budget tax revenues in the first half of 1998.
Although the tax rates for VAT (18%) and corporate income tax (25%) are not excessive
compared to many European countries, the effective tax rate on personal income is very high, given the
social insurance contribution tax rate of 37% and the personal income tax rate of 25%. The high social
insurance contribution rate was necessary to start up the new pension scheme. The Government intended



Page 5
to gradually reduce the rate over a five year period. However, the worsening arrears in the social tax
collections, coupled with the 1997 decision to raise pensions, led the Government to postpone a further
decrease in the rate until 2002. Improving social tax collections and reducing social tax rates remain a
strategic objective of the Government, since the high rate discourages employment, erodes the tax base,
and leads to further growth of tax arrears and tax evasion. Reversing this dynamic, while maintaining
fiscal prudence, requires increasing compliance rates and broadening the base through more effective
revenue administration.
(iii)   Improving the overall quality of taxpayer services
Modern revenue administrations are largely based on voluntary compliance. In addition to the
credible threat of detection and enforcement, a cornerstone of compliance-based revenue administration
is improvement in the quality of the services provided to taxpayers and those engaged in international
trade and transport (i.e., importers, exporters, transporters, brokers, warehouse operators, etc.).
Anecdotal evidence suggests that the SRS is considered by the public to be among the very
difficult and less transparent institutions to deal with. The current administrative arrangements exhibit a
fairly high rate of face-to-face interaction by taxpayers and customs clients with SRS staff. These
interactions are typically motivated by the need to: submit and/or clarify documents; certify and/or
follow-up on procedures; clarify the applicability of rules and regulations; determine account status; etc.
In addition to creating unnecessary opportunities for corrupt practices, the over-reliance on face-to-face
interactions with SRS staff represent real burdens for taxpayers and customs clients, raising the cost of
compliance. The over-reliance on face-to-face interactions is also a source of uneven administration and
further increases compliance costs.
There are a number of areas through which tax and customs administration could improve the
quality of service. Simplification of transactions, procedures, and forms are important areas, as is the
simplification of tax and trade-related record-keeping requirements. Establishing consistency in
administration and strengthening the competency of administrators are also important elements in
improving taxpayer services. Training and better organizational arrangements are ways to increase
quality of service, particularly to large, complex enterprises. In addition, mechanisms to increase the
availability, timeliness and accuracy of information to taxpayers and those engaged in international trade
and transport can reduce compliance costs and facilitate tax and customs transactions. These mechanisms
can be telecommunications-based, such as hot-lines and web-sites, or more traditional methods can be
used, such as seminars and out-reach programs. Electronic filing of declarations is yet another way to
reduce the burden on the taxpayer and those engaged in international trade and transport, as well as on
revenue administrators. For each of these areas, improvements in quality of services need to be built into
the design of the revenue administration, including its regulations, procedures and organizational culture.
(iv)   Improving transparency and reducing corruption in the revenue administration system
The Government has demonstrated its commitment to fighting corruption at all levels by
implementing a wide-ranging Corruption Prevention Program. Under this program the SRS requested an
analysis of the agency's vulnerability to corruption, and a review of the laws on income and asset
declarations of public officials. This law, for which the SRS is implementing agency, is designed to
prevent conflict of interest and provide prima facie evidence of income and assets corruptly obtained. The
SRS is also making progress towards increasing the transparency of its operations and reducing
opportunities and incentives for corruption. It is benefiting from external advisers on management and
efficiency reforms in customs, and recently commissioned its own study of information flows within the
SRS. This study showed a plethora of non-standard documents being used and the fact that the central
office had insufficient information on activities at the regional and local level.



Page 6
The vulnerability analysis, which was carried out with the help of the Bank in April 1998, found
a number of features that provided opportunities and incentives for corruption and lack of transparency in
operations. These included: (a) frequent close contact between officials and taxpayers; (b) inadequate
information for management and supervisors; (c) lack of clear criteria for audit case selection;
(d) unrealistically high penalties; (e) uneven implementation of procedures for tax deferrals, penalties and
appeals; (f) lack of clear mandated supervision routines; (g) insufficient intemal controls; (h) uneven
supervision of local offices; (i) undue closeness between some local offices and their communities,
related to an infrequent rotation of officers; (1) low levels of remuneration and few opportunities for
professional development; (k) lack of legislative clarity and inadequate regulations; (I) absence of real
time information on merchandise in transit and on vehicles crossing the country; (m) difficulty in cross-
checking information on imports for purposes of VAT and income tax controls because tax identification
numbers are not used for customs declarations; and (n) lack of equipment needed by customs to monitor
and inspect vehicles and containers.
Since the vulnerability analysis was completed, the SRS has developed a number of plans to
incorporate the main recommendations into project design and implementation. The department of
intemal audit has been re-established, and stronger and more transparent procedures are being introduced
in the human resource strategy covering recruitment and promotion. A positive step towards
standardizing procedures in tax audit units has been taken with the introduction of a manual, which will
need to be reinforced by good implementation and supervision.
(v)    Facilitating trade and EU accession
The flow of goods into and out of Latvia is of major importance to the economy, as the trade
sector accounts for nearly half of GDP. However, illegal trade (weapons, radioactive materials, drugs
and other contraband) is a significant threat that strains the authorities' capacity to tackle it and provides
opportunities and incentives for corruption. It can also be a source of danger to staff who attempt to
reduce the flows. These are serious concems for Latvia and its neighbors, especially in the light of EU
accession requirements which require more effective border controls than Latvia now has. Nevertheless,
in designing and implementing such controls, the SRS must strike a balance between the degree of
control and the speed with which goods may cross Latvian borders.
As part of the second cohort of countries preparing for EU accession, Latvia must establish
modem tax and customs services which can operate on an EU-compatible basis and achieve EU-
standards of compliance. This objective requires developing a modernization strategy to administer taxes
and an operational capacity to apply the acquis communautaires of the EU. Upon accession, part of the
customs decision-making, tariff rate setting and collections will transfer to Brussels.  While tax
compliance must remain within EU acceptable levels, the administration of intemal taxes remains in
Latvian control.
The Govemment is already receiving assistance from the EU to improve controls on Latvia's
eastem border (as a prospective EU border) and to put in place the ASYCUDA++ customs information
system. However, much work remains to be done during the period of pre-accession, including:
*  Harmonizing the tax base and rates to ensure that tax revenue is as neutral as possible to
intemational trade.
*  Implementing EU registration for VAT and the EU VAT Information Exchange System
(VIES), for cross-checking of intemational transactions.
*  Achieving acceptable compliance standards to prevent Latvia from becoming a tax haven in
the EU.



Page 7
Educating and training SRS staff to become familiar with and perform procedures according
to EU standards.
(vi)   Improving SRS organizational effectiveness and efficiency
Immediately after Latvian independence, two organizations were established to collect revenue:
the State Finance Inspection Board (for taxes) and the Custom Department (for customs duties and taxes
on international trade). To improve revenue collection and economize on administrative costs, the two
merged to form the SRS in 1994. Starting January 1, 1998, the SRS has also been responsible for
collecting social insurance contributions. The SRS has seven local offices in Riga and 27 offices outside
Riga. There are also 60 customs border posts that need to be staffed on a 24 hour basis.
Although a number of organizational changes have been made to integrate various SRS
functions, the optimal structure is still not in place. In particular, there is no uniform organizational
structure for SRS offices and the number of staff in each office ranges widely from 28 to 334.
Management and administration overheads are generally high by European standards and range from
12% to 44%. Despite the relatively high overheads, coordination between headquarters and the local
offices is insufficient to ensure effective implementation of operational policies and the best use of
SRS's physical, human and information resources. Many managerial and business planning changes
have been introduced by the SRS in recent years to address some of these shortcomings. However, many
have not yet been fully institutionalized. Among the key areas requiring further development are work
standards, job descriptions, performance targets and monitoring systems, as well as financial and asset
management systems.
(vii)  Strengthening human resources
From 1997, SRS staff have been taken out of the Civil Service and made subject to the private
sector Labor Code. This has given the SRS greater flexibility in hiring, promoting and firing employees
and setting remuneration levels. However, the SRS does not have an explicit policy regarding long-term
career paths or promotion. There are some rules governing job rotation, but no incentives to encourage
rotation. There are no standards concerning evaluation of staff performance. The training activities are
considerable, but there are no standard job descriptions to identify the training needs or improve
recruitment.
The general pay level is not competitive with the private sector, and the remuneration system
does not provide adequate incentives to attract and retain skilled staff. In addition, the basic features of
the pay system are rigid. This makes it difficult to adjust the pay structure to changing conditions and
needs. In particular, the rigidity has led to an over-use of the bonus payment mechanism. This has made
the pay system relatively unpredictable and non-transparent. In July 1998, the Cabinet approved a new
concept paper for public sector pay, which will cover the SRS. The working group tasked with
elaborating the new concepts, however, is in the earliest stages. Thus, the details of the new policies and
their impact on SRS are not yet known. Nevertheless, the new approach should give the SRS the
opportunity to harmonize its pay policies with the new public sector pay scale, as it develops its human
resources strategy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The project will address the sector issues identified above through an integrated package of
investments in organizational and management strengthening and in operational capacity building.



Page 8
(i)    The project will provide a wide range of support aimed at increasing the SRS's long term
organizational effectiveness and efficiency. This includes: (a) increased integration of
the basic business lines of the SRS; (b) a pilot and roll-out of a regional consolidation
strategy; (c) strengthened management capacity in a wide range of areas (e.g., personnel,
financial management, operational policy formulation); and (c) an improved human
resources strategy and incentive structure.
(ii)    By modernizing SRS's operational capacity (including business process re-engineering,
skills development, and a. major overhaul of the SRS's tax and customs information
systems), the project will help combat smuggling and tax evasion, including non-filers
and non-payers. This will raise compliance rates, broaden the base for taxes and
customs, increase revenue collections, and, in turn, help ensure fiscal balance.
(iii)   The project's support to customs administration (both revenue and non-revenue
functions) will be especially targeted at preparing Latvia for EU accession. In particular,
the project will complement and extend the customs policy advice and legal assistance
being supported by the EU, and will help implement procedural improvements which are
necessary to achieve the standards of operations required for EU accession.
(iv)    The project will provide a variety of technical means, including taxpayer surveys, to raise
the quality of client services, as well as support for strengthening taxpayer rights through
upgraded appeals and grievance resolution mechanisms.
(v)    The project will improve the transparency of revenue administration and reduces its
vulnerability to corruption through a number of channels: (a) an internal Vigilance Unit
will be established, to provide a credible and independent mechanism to ensure that SRS
personnel carry out business in accordance with a proper code of conduct; (b) the SRS's
new operational systems will greatly reduce the scope for tampering with the paper files
or the records in the currently isolated computer systems, through greatly improved
cross-checking and reporting capacities; (c) a new human resource strategy will improve
supervision, training, pay, motivation, and efficiency, while also rotating staff regularly
in order to maintain arm's length relationships; (d) objective, depersonalized criteria will
be introduced for audits, appeals, and Customs inspections; and (e) SRS capacity will be
strengthened to perform its responsibilities to accurately monitor the income and assets
of public officials, through the legally mandated requirement that such officials file
declarations with the SRS.
Strategic Choices. The overarching goal of EU accession, to a large degree, defines Latvia's
strategic choices in the area of tax and customs administration. The policy framework is mainly
determined at the supra-national level, as are many administrative arrangements and performance
standards. To the extent that this leaves the pace of modernization as a strategic choice for Latvia, this
too is constrained by the lead-time required to build up the institutional capacity to carry out revenue
administration to the necessary standards. Thus, the remaining strategic choices mainly revolve around
the extent to which the functions of tax administration, customs and social insurance collections are to be
integrated in a single institution. The authorities have already committed to a strategy of unifying these
administrations, to ensure that revenue functions are all administered in a unified fashion. Among other
things, this greatly facilitates cross-checking declarations and other transactions for consistency. In short,
the strategic decision to integrate the tax and customs functions has already been taken and is unlikely to
be reversed. Indeed, further integration is envisaged, although some specific functions, such as border
controls, may remain separate for technical reasons.



Page 9
C. Project Description Summary
To improve revenue administration operations and at the same time bring significant change in
taxpayer understanding, attitudes and compliance levels, the SRS has prepared a Strategic Plan for the
period 1998 to 2002, with the following strategic goals:
* Improve operational efficiency.
* Simplify tax laws, internal regulations, business and appeal processes.
* Modernize the SRS, customs, tax, and information system.
* Improve services to taxpayers.
* Strengthen anti-smuggling operations and control of Eastern borders.
The SRS modernization project would build on the Strategic Plan of the SRS and provide
technical assistance, training, information technologies, other equipment and minor civil works, over the
1998-2002 implementation period. The project would support two closely inter-related components.
* Organization and Management Component -- to improve the overall organizational
effectiveness of the SRS.
* -Operational Component -- to improve the performance of the SRS in critical technical areas
of tax, customs and social insurance collection administration.
1. Project components (see Annex 2 and Annex 3for a detailed description and cost breakdown):
Indicative  % of   Bank-      % of
Component                  Category        Costs    Total  financing   Bank-
(US$M)           (US$M)  financing
1. Organization & Management Comp.    Institution-building  6.4  14.0%   1.6       32%
A. Information technologies (IT)                      2.1      4.6%
B. Non-IT                                             3.3      7.2%
C. Incremental recurrent costs                        1.0      2.2%
2. Operational Comp.              Institution-building    39.2  86.0%    3.4       68%
A. IT                                                24.6     53.9%
B. Non-IT                                             4.3      9.5%
C. Incremental recurrent costs                       10.3     22.6%
Total I_45.6                       100%     5.0      100%
Organization and Management Component:
The Organization and Management component of the project would provide consultant services,
training, goods and minor civil works to strengthen the institutional effectiveness of the SRS. It would
include support for:



Page 10
* Rationalization of Organizational Structures: including, development of a three level organization
structure for the SRS, creation of two pilot regional offices (Zemgale, Latgale) to implement new
organization structure; and restructuring of local offices to insulate internal processing activities
from the public and to enhance client services provided through them.
*  Strategic planning, budgeting, and financial and asset management: including, revision and
strengthening of the SRS's vision statement, strategic plan and planning methods; development and
implementation of methodologies for preparing budgets and substantiating the cost effectiveness of
budget proposals; development and implementation of methodologies for planning SRS expenditures;
and enhancements to SRS's financial, physical and information asset management systems.
*  Operational management: including, improvements in operational policy formulation; improvements
in administrative aspects of tax, customs and social security laws to increase the effectiveness of the
SRS in implementing them and to make them compatible with EU requirements; and development of
monitoring, performance contracting and evaluation mechanisms.
* Personnel management: including, development and implementation of a differentiated pay and
incentives system for SRS staff; development of career paths for SRS staff at all levels; development
of policies and procedures for staff rotation; enhancement of the capacity of the SRS Training Unit to
deliver high quality training; enhancements of the SRS's human resource management information
systems.
*  Internal controls and prevention of corruption: including, development and implementation of the
SRS's intemal reporting and internal audit strategy; development of guidelines for managers for
dealing with corruption cases; training of staff about the Code of Ethics; establishment of a Vigilance
Unit; and establishing a channel for taxpayer complaints.
*  External and internal relations: including, design and implementation of: (i) periodic client surveys;
(ii) public relations campaigns aimed at staff, taxpayers, importers, transporters, brokers, warehouse
operators, etc., and (iii) strategies and mechanisms to support and liaise with professional groups
involved in tax-related matters, such as preparers, lawyers, industry associations, and accountants.
*  Management information system: including, design and implementation of planning and decision-
support tools, with linkages to the SRS's resource management systems and operational systems.
Operational Component:
The Operational Component of the project would extend the capacity building efforts initiated by
the SRS in the functional areas of tax, customs and social insurance collections. The objective would be
to increase the productivity of routine operations, while improving the SRS's ability to fight tax evasion,
smuggling and defaults in revenue payments. Important operational areas to be covered are the following:
* Taxpayer registration: including integration with the external registries for persons, businesses and
property.
* Declaration, collection, and recovery of arrears: including unification of income tax and social
insurance tax declarations, detection and follow up of non-filers and stop-filers through closer
collaboration with the Enterprise Registry.
*   Audit and investigation: including an analysis of compliance pattems; assessment of revenue risks;
development of audit strategies; information systems to select cases for audit, perform information
cross checks, conduct audits and evaluate audit effectiveness; development of links between
compliance rate monitoring and SRS performance assessments; and development of reference
databases of external information on taxpayer transactions.



Page 1 1
*   Customs operations: including trade facilitation; physical inspection of goods; warehousing;
detection, confiscation and disposal of contraband.
* Adjudication and appeal: including appeals filed before SRS authorities, as well as the processing
of appeals and prosecutions filed before the judiciary.
*   Taxpayer and customs client services: including facilities for information exchange between the
SRS and taxpayers and those engaged in international trade and transport; education; help desk; and
procedures to redress grievances. Periodic client surveys will be undertaken to test and respond to
taxpayer views over time and to provide a feedback into the internal performance monitoring.
*   Common information technology (IT) infrastructure: including information security; network
management; distributed server configuration; power supplies; local and wide area networks; and
inter-agency data exchange.
The bulk of resources of this component would be devoted to the continued development of up-
to-date tax and customs information systems. The infommation systems would help the SRS to:
(a) efficiently manage the volume of day to day transactions; (b) monitor compliance; (c) promptly detect
defaulters and initiate remedial measures; (d) target resources to cases of suspected evasion; (e) increase
the incisiveness of audits and investigations; and (f) feed decision-support systems.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
By providing a sustainable revenue flow, the project would help the Government with the goal of
maintaining a balanced budget and a reduction in social insurance rates. The project is part of the general
public sector modemization effort which is taking place simultaneously with anti-corruption efforts. The
project builds on and extends the institutional reforms underway in the public sector.
A key policy decision is to maintain the integration of common functions of customs and tax
administration. The project would support this and seek to promote stability and continuity among SRS
management and staff, by enhancing long term career development. From 1997, SRS operations have
been govemed by performance contracts between headquarters and the local offices. The project would
seek to extend these reforms, by strengthening the tools to measure and monitor performance and, in turn,
further refine the performance-based contracting arrangements. The reforms supported by the project
could be complemented by additional reforms to modify the legal framework to improve administrative
procedures and the enforcement powers of the SRS.
3. Benefits and target population:
The project would broadly benefit the citizens and residents of Latvia, through more stable and
predictable revenue flows. This will help maintain macro-economic stability and enhance the
Government's ability to implement its public policy, including the payment of pensions. The increase in
tax and customs compliance and improved revenue collection will also enable the imposition of lower,
less distortionary tax rates. Improved revenue administration will encourage a shift of activities into the
formal sector, as a result, both entrepreneurs and enterprises that currently operate in the "unofficial"
markets would be able to benefit from formal financial intermediation and proper enterprise governance.
Taxpayers and those engaged in intemational trade and transport who comply with their tax and
customs obligations would benefit through reduced cost of compliance, including more clear and
standardized regulations, as well as improved tax and customs transactions processing. Law-abiding
taxpayers, importers, exporters, transporters, brokers, and warehouse operators would also benefit
through improvements in the equity of the tax and customs burdens.



Page 12
SRS managers and staff would benefit from the improvements brought by the project in their
working environment, incentives, productivity and effectiveness.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Estimated period of implementation: January 1998 to December 2002.
(Note: January 1998 marks the beginning of the ramp-up period for SRS's modernization
program, of which the Bank-financed investments form an integral part. Consequently, activities
throughout 1998 are subsumed into the project description and cost estimates.)
The authorities have established the following oversight and management structures to implement
the project.
Steering Committee, which was established on July 28, 1998, will oversee the implementation of
the project. In addition to the oversight function, the Steering Committee will be responsible for leading
the organization and management reforms. It will also coordinate among the various affected agencies in
the Latvian public sector and resolve problems which require inter-agency agreement. This committee
comprises:
*     Minister of Finance (Chairman).
*     Deputy State Secretary, Ministry of Finance (Deputy Chairman).
*     State Minister for State Revenue.
*     Director General, SRS.
*     Deputy Director General, SRS.
*     Deputy Director General, SRS.
*     Deputy Director General, SRS.
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) will coordinate and monitor the day-to-day project activities
and manage the financial, procurement, record-keeping and reporting activities associated with the
project. The Unit, which was established in July 1998, includes:
*     Project Manager (the Director General of SRS).
*     Deputy Project Manager (nominated).
*     Procurement specialist (nominated).
*     Financial specialist (nominated).
SRS will ensure that the PIU has the necessary resources and facilities to carry out its
responsibilities. These responsibilities include, but are not restricted to, the collection and monitoring of
the project performance indicators (as elaborated in Annex 1), the preparation of a report for the Mid-
term Review (by December 31, 2000) to be reviewed with the Bank (by January 31, 2001). In addition,
the PIU will have prepared a plan to ensure the continued achievement of the Project objectives, based on
guidelines acceptable to the Bank. The PIU will ensure that no later than six months after the closing date
of the Loan, or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the SRS and the Bank, the plan
is furnished to the Bank and that the Bank has a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the SRS.
Project Teams are responsible for the specific technical details in the three areas mentioned
below. They are also responsible to manage the change processes associated with the introduction of new



Page 13
procedures and systems, among other things, to minimize the adverse impact on on-going operations.
*      Tax Modernization Project Team.
*      Customs Modernization Project Team.
*      Information Technology Project Team.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The original request of the government focused primarily on the implementation of a five-year IT
plan. This alternative was rejected because it did not include the institutional reforms necessary to fully
exploit major investments in information technologies and to ensure that the system investments would be
consistent with the actual capacity and needs of the revenue agency. It also did not include the
enhancement of management and operations needed for accession to the EU.
A less comprehensive and shorter project was also considered. This altemative was rejected in
that it compromised the ability to implement a tightly integrated package of information system tools and
complementary organizational, business process and management improvements. This alternative would
also have greatly diminished the potential role of the World Bank in coordinating the assistance efforts by
other donors, as requested by the Latvian authorities.
A slower paced project was considered and rejected, since it would introduce significant risks that tax and
customs administration would become an unnecessary hindrance to achieving the national goals of early EU
accession and an ambitiously paced economic transformation.
2. Major relatedprojectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
andplanned):
As a prospective EU member country, the EU-PHARE has provided Latvia significant support in the areas
of tax and customs administration. The project builds on and extends this work. In particular, EU-PHARE support
in the area of tax administration has focused on the tax laws and regulations. The project largely takes this work as
a point of departure (with some further work to refine the aspects of the tax laws and regulations which address the
SRS's administrative arrangements) and focuses on strengthening the SRS's institutional capacity to implement the
laws and regulations. In the area of customs, EU-PHARE has focused on border controls, anti-smuggling and the
regional piloting of the ASYCUDA++ customs information system. The project, among many things, will extend
the work on anti-smuggling with support for strategy development, risk-analysis, training and equipment. Based on
the experience with the ASYCUDA pilot, the project will support the integration and incorporation of the
ASYCUDA technologies into the comprehensive customs information systems (CIS) that the SRS is developing.
This will include the roll-out of the selected elements of the ASYCUDA system to the SRS's customs units nation-
wide.
In addition to the EU-PHARE programs, bilateral assistance on specific topics and initiatives has
been provided by the Swedish Customs Board (strategic planning and operational training in customs),
the Danish Customs and Tax Board (tax accounting methods), and USAID (internal audit and tax
recovery).
Coordination with the EU-PHARE and the bilateral donors will be a key element in Bank project
supervision.



Page 14
Major Related Projects Financed by the Bank and Other Development Agencies
Sector                       Project            Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
SAL                              S
Public sector reform IDF        n.a.            n.a.
Other development agencies
EU-PHARE              Tax Administration
Projects (approx. US$ 2.5
million)
Tax legislation                S               S
Tax administration             S               S
Training courses in tax       HS               HS
administration area
EU-PHARE              Customs administration
(approx. US$ 2.5 million)
Program management Unit       HS               HS
(I project)
Customs Management Plan       HS               HS
(I project)
Supply of equipment;           S              HS
development of
infrastructure (3 projects)
Senior management training    HS               HS
(I project)
Customs procedures,
processing of declarations     S               S
(8 projects)
Legislation (2 projects)       S               S
Organizational reforns (4      S               S
projects)
EU guidelines (I project)     HS              HS
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
This project reflects the experience of Bank-financed tax administration projects in Hungary,
Thailand, and several Latin American countries. It also draws on the recent tax and customs integration
experiences of Canada, Denmark and the Netherlands, among others. Lessons learned include the
importance of: (a) meaningfuilly connecting IT and business plans, by complementing the IT-dominated
operational components with components aimed at the organizational and management aspects of
revenue administration; (b) maintaining a long-term perspective, while satisfying short-term policy and
operational needs; and (c) introducing performance indicators as benchmarks for revenue agency staff
and managers. The experience also demonstrates that institutional modernization is an iterative process
which requires a number of years to carry out.



Page 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The proposed project resulted from the administrative requirements of the Latvian Government
revenue, organizational and automation strategies. Notwithstanding the substantial outside technical
assistance, all policies essentially emerged from within the Govemment, including the path-breaking
decision to integrate tax, social security contributions, and customs. (Latvia is the only Baltic state which
has chosen to integrate its tax and customs functions.)
Project preparation has been strong. The SRS has developed strategic plans for tax and customs
administration. SRS management is now integrating these plans, thus forming a coherent and
comprehensive vision for a multi-year institutional investment program. Business planning has been
instituted to organize the operational work of different offices. Also, the practice of executing
performance contracts has been introduced. In addition, the IT Strategic Plan is a solid document, which
guides the integration and automation pro-cesses. The Govemment requested the Bank to help further
integrate all aspects of the project and has assigned a high priority to this project among its financing
requests to the World Bank.
The State Minister of State Revenue Service is a key member of the Govemment's Corruption
Prevention Council. She has provided leadership for anti-corruption efforts in the SRS including the
analysis of vulnerability to corruption that was completed in time to feed results into the project
preparation process. During the preparation of the project, a detailed organizational diagnosis was also
carried out, and deficiencies in the organizational structure, management practices and operational tasks
of tax and customs administrations were identified. Based on this exercise, the SRS developed a set of
project activities and submitted them to the Bank. The Bank team and the Latvian counterparts
reconciled these activities with those indicated by the diagnosis. The design of each of the project
components, their sub-components, activities under each sub-component, activity schedules and activity
costs were discussed at length and agreed with the Govemment. This process led to full participation of
the counterparts in the preparation of the project and has created a sense of ownership on their part.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
By bringing comparative experience, the Bank's involvement will help Latvia define a more
secure reform path and preclude mistakes that other countries have made in similar reform efforts. The
Bank would also help maintain forward momentum on this major institutional investment, by providing
both financial and systematic technical assistance during project implementation. Recent experience in
Latin America indicates that World Bank projects (e.g., Mexico and Argentina I and II) do act as catalysts
to accelerate and sustain the change processes.
The Latvian authorities have asked the Bank to take on a coordinating function to ensure thatthe
multiple foreign assistance initiatives in tax and customs administration are coherent and complementary.
By concentrating on outcomes and the connections to an agreed development strategy, the Bank's
approach to projects transcends the open-ended and segmented approach of most bilateral assistance.
Banik work in the revenue area also complements IMF efforts in Latvia. The IMF provides
important policy guidance and has in the past provided some long-term technical assistance. Capacity to
implement IMF advice is strengthened when it rests upon a coherent Bank-supported project which builds
the capacity to implement the policy reforms.



Page 16
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the projectfile, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (supported by Annex 4):
[C]ost-Benefit Analysis: [] Cost Effectiveness Analysis: [x] Other: Cost-Recovery Analysis
The economic benefits from the modernization of tax, customs and social insurance contribution
administration come through a number of channels. Among the most important are increases in the
effectiveness of revenue administration, as manifested in improved cost effectiveness of revenue
collection, as well as increases in the efficiency of revenue collection, as manifested in lower
administrative costs per Lat collected and lower compliance costs for taxpayers. Other less quantifiable
benefits associated with the project include: (a) more equitable distribution of the tax and customs
burdens; (b) reductions in corruption in revenue administration; (c) reduction in rent-seeking and
distortions associated with illegal and evasive behavior; (d) benefits associated with regional integration,
and EU accession in particular; and (e) increased economic growth through lower, less distortionary tax
rates, in particular a lower rate for social insurance contributions by 2002.
Because of inadequacy of reliable data on compliance costs, a precise cost - benefit analysis
cannot be undertaken at this stage. Instead, the quantitative analysis presented here is a simple a cost -
recovery analysis. This analysis focuses simply on ensuring that an exceedingly pessimistic projected
increase in the effectiveness of revenue administration will be sufficient to raise revenues in excess of the
cost of the modernization program. In this case, the present value of a permanent, one-time increase in
revenue performance of merely 0.7 percent is sufficient to cover the present value of investment costs,
incremental recurrent costs and depreciation. The analysis also shows that increases in administrative
effectiveness sufficient to increase revenue performance by 3 percent are sufficient to cover total costs
approximately four times over. (A one percent increase represents a fiscal gain of about US$48 million
in NPV at a 10 percent discount rate, and yields an IRR of 29%.)
International experience suggests that, although the actual increase in revenue performance
associated with such modernization investments are hard to predict, they invariably exceed the associated
costs by a large margin. With an informal economy estimated to be equivalent to a quarter of GDP, there
is little reason to suggest that Latvia would prove to be the exception.
Turned around, the analysis indicates that the cost of obtaining increased administrative
effectiveness -- through which the project derives benefits such as more equitable and less distortionary
tax and customs burdens -- is quite low.
It should be strongly emphasized that the above cost - recovery analysis is only a proxy for the
other benefits of the project. The Government does not intend to transfer the improved revenue into
higher expenditure. Indeed, the project will: (a) allow fiscal flows to be maintained as privatization
revenues begin to decrease; and (b) permit tax rates to be lowered over time.
Another point worth emphasizing here is that most of the data which is required to undertake a
proper cost - benefit analysis will be generated in the course of operations of the SRS's modernized
information systems. These systems will provide the necessary data and analytic capacities to construct
and monitor trends in compliance, equity of tax burden, administrative costs associated with revenue
collection, etc. In addition, technical assistance under the project will, among other things, help develop
such performance monitoring methodologies and incorporate them into the SRS's internal contracting
and evaluation arrangements.
Three assumptions of the cost - recovery analysis are notable. First the model assumes away
changes in many extra-project factors that determine actual revenue performance, such as changing
economic conditions and other drivers of economic growth. Second, it assumes no deterioration in
revenue performance in the no-investment scenario. Third, it also assumes that the increase in the revenue
performance would begin only in the year 2000. These last two understate the revenue benefits from the



Page 17
investments. As the economic transformation progresses and the private sector expands and becomes
more sophisticated, revenue authorities must actually work harder to maintain the same level of revenue
collections. Also, many of the key operational systems become active in 1998 and 1999, and thus
improvements in administrative effectiveness and revenue performance should appear earlier than
estimated in the model.
Details of cost-recovery analysis is presented in Annex 4.
2. Financial: (Fiscal Impact)
Based on current projected costs and schedules, the necessary counterpart funding for the project
investments (excluding the recurrent costs) are: CY99-US$11.3 equivalent, CYOO -- US$6.5 million
equivalent; CY01 - US$3.5 million equivalent; and CY02 - US$1. 4 million equivalent. The SRS and the
Bank will review the planned and actual expenditures for the project and the corresponding
disbursements each year. The counterpart funding requirements for the following year will be updated
accordingly. These agreements shall be the basis to determine the adequacy of the subsequent year's
allocation from the PIP for the SRS. Total recurrent cost during the same period would be US9.9 million.
Of these investment and recurrent costs approximately US$7 million would be returned to the budget in
the form of taxes.
On the revenue side, improving compliance will allow the overall fiscal balance to be maintained,
and, over time, allow tax rates to be lowered.
3. Technical:
Maintaining the operations of the existing systems, while undertaking a major institution building
effort, commonly strains the technical capacity of an organization. In addition, phasing in new
capabilities and new systems over a multi-year period raises a whole host of systems integration issues.
Developing and retaining sufficient qualified IT specialists is a key issue.
Any serious attempt to curb tax evasion and smuggling requires strengthening enforcement and
investigation capabilities. Even to maintain voluntary compliance at a reasonable level the deterrent
effect of enforcement actions is critical. However, an emphasis on enforcement could raise genuine fears
of administrative excess. Therefore, it has to be accompanied by strong safeguards against harassment of
taxpayers. Thus, a delicate balance would need to be struck in providing the SRS with the capacity to
enforce the tax laws, while at the same time protecting the rights of the taxpayers.
4. Institutional:
a. Executing agencies: State Revenue Service
b. Project management: PIU within SRS, headed by the Director General of SRS.
Important institutional issues incorporated into the project design during appraisal include:
* EU accession issues.
* Managerial capacity.
* Wage and incentive structures.
* Organizational structures.
* Informal organization.
* SRS, Customs and Social Insurance organizational cultures.
* Legal framework consistency and completeness.
* Human resources deployment and management.
* Vulnerability to corruption in organization and processes.
* Donor coordination.



Page 18
5. Social:
The modernization of SRS entails changes in the management and operational functions,
including Social Insurance Contribution collections. Disruptions in these functions create some risk of
compromising the Government's ability to pay social benefits.
6. Environmental assessment: Environmental Category       I I A    I I B    [xi C
With only minor office refurbishment envisioned, the project should have no direct
environmental impact. Indirect impacts are also likely to be negligible, in that improvement of tax and
customs administration is unlikely to influence relative prices of environmentally significant resources.
Better control of borders will, however, yield some benefits through interdiction of dangerous contraband
materials, in particular radioactive substances. The magnitude of this impact is exceedingly hard to
assess.
7. Participatory approach:
Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Consultations have been carried out with major accounting firms in Riga. Selected major
taxpayers were contacted at pre-appraisal about their experience at SRS services. Surveys of businesses,
households, and public officials were also mounted in June 1998 to feed the perceptions of the SRS held
by taxpayers and the population into the process of project development. In addition, as stated earlier, the
project design itself predominantly reflects the work of SRS staff and management.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
As discussed above, the financial / economic sustainability of the project is ensured by a rather
wide margin. By virtue of the project's comprehensive approach to institutional capacity building, the
package of technical assistance, equipment and information systems investments are each mutually
complementary. Over the long term, this will help ensure that the SRS can make optimal use of the
information systems tools financed under the project and, reciprocally, that the investments in
organizational realignment and staff / management strengthening are supported by effective operational
and management systems tools.  In particular, the project will support the strengthening of the
performance-based contracting scheme adopted by the SRS and, more generally, pay close attention to
the role of incentives in the proper and sustainable conduct of the SRS business by its staff and officers.
Sustainability will depend, however, on the political environment and commitment to the reform.
It also will depend on the ability of the SRS to attract and retain staff with skills commensurate with the
modem systems and practices to be introduced by the project.



Page 19
2. Critical Risks (reflecdng assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):.
Risk                                   Risk      Risk minimization measure
Rating
Objective to Goal
Change of Government or other political  H       Special attention will be paid to briefmg any incoming
factors may delay or derail the                  management and ministerial decision-makers on nature
implementation of organizational reforms of      and rationale of the project.
the SRS.
Outputs to Objective
Low commitment to implement            M         Widespread management support and involvement at
management changes                               project design stage.
High turnover of senior managers and   M         Development of a new pay and incentives system,
skilled staff                                    which is designed to attract and retain high quality staff,
is supported by the project (see Personnel Management
sub-component).
Most of the IT development and technical support work
is out-sourced, thereby avoiding the need to find and
retain a large cadre of IT specialists.
"Losers" (potential, internal or external)  S    Threatened internal groups are somewhat less
will obstruct changes, by non-cooperation        thoroughly entrenched than in older, more established
or political means.                              organizations. Spending on internal relations and
change management should help overcome internal
resistance. The national political mood has become
increasingly intolerant of corrupt officials and
tax/customs evaders. Well publicized measures aimed
at reducing corruption (in the context of the Corruption
Prevention Program) should provide a reasonable
defense against attacks motivated by lost opportunities
for ill-obtained gains.
Taxpayers will be confused about changes   M     Improved public relations and taxpayer services are
and tax collections will be disrupted.           supported by the project (see Taxpayer and Customs
Client Services).
The current scheme, where most tax payments are made
by bank transfer to the State Treasury from the
taxpayer's account, will be unchanged under this
project.
Components to Output
Restructuring of local offices will be  M        Government policy is supportive of consolidation and
impeded by political pressures from              regionalization in many agencies and in SRS in
external or internal sources.                    particular.
Establishment of two regional pilot units in Zemgale
and Latgale to ensure a smooth transition to the new
organization structure (see Rationalizing Organizational
Structure).



Page 20
Consultation with key stakeholders at the
implementation stage.
Staff will resist changes to existing  M          Training in change management is supported by the
procedures                                        project (see External and Intemnal Relations).
The systems implementation will miss the    M     The design and implementation processes follow
.requirements turget and user acceptance will     industry best practices with formal user involvement,
be low                                            formal analysis and documentation regines, together
with a phased and iterative approach to system design,
implementation, subsequent extension and refinement
New system will run in parallel with existng systems
until full acceptance of each module.
The ftmding allocations to cover counterpart S    The Government wil mclude the imvestment ffnancing
investment expenditures will not be timely.       needs of the Project in the Public Investment Program
.__________________________   ______              and the annual budgets.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Mod est Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible controversial aspects:
None envisioned.
G. Main Loan Conditions
Effectiveness Conditions:
Selection of Project auditor.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[x] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
[x] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Team Leader- Mansour Farsad
Sector Director: Pradeep Mitra
Counuy Director. Basil



Page 21
Annex 1
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary          Key Performance         Monitoring and      Critical Assumptions
Indicators            Evaluation
Project Development                                                     (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
To develop:
A revenue system that      1. Sustained revenue      1. SRS and national  Change of Government, or
promotes sustainable revenue  performance.          statistics.          political pressure from
performance on the basis of                                              interest groups, -or poor
voluntary compliance,      2. Reduced compliance    2. SRS statistics and  coordination among
reducing corruption and    costs.                   taxpayer surveys.    ministries involved will
evasion, and facilitates                                                 not delay or derail the
private sector development    3. Decline in arrears, tax    3. SRS statistics  implementation of
by lowering compliance costs  evasion and contraband                     organizational reforms
and tax rates.             traffic.                                      initiated by the SRS.
A SaeRvneSi4. Improved transparency   4. SRS statistics,  The Govemment will
(SRS) that efficiently,    and integrity of the revenue  supervision reports.   ensure adequate resources
equithab andihonetly,      administration system.                        are allocated in Public
equitably and honestly                                                  Investment Program.
administers tax and customs   5. A more equitable   5. Supervision
laws and IS equipped with
modernnd is  pes           distribution of the effective  mission reports and
manageme b esystoemssand   tax burden, through      project evaluation
management systems,        increased compliance.    report.
operational tools.
6. Reduction in social   6. Project evaluation
insurance contribution rate  report.
starting year 2002.
Project Outputs (1):                                                     (Outputs to Objective)
Improved organizational and                         Mid-term evaluation   Strong commitment to
managerial efficiency.                              by the year 2000    implement managerial
Rationalized local office                                                changes will continue.
structures. Improved       1.1 New 5 year strategic    1.1 Supervision
integrity of operations.   plan produced.           mission reports.     Low turnover of SRS
Reduced opportunities for                                                senior management.
corruption.                1.2 New regional and local  1.2 Supervision
office structures introduced  mission reports.  "Losers" will not obstruct
in two regions.                              changes, by non-
cooperation or political
means.



Page 22
1.3 Improved action plans   1.3 SRS
and performance indicators  performance reports.
introduced.
1.4 Differentiated pay and   1.4 Supervision
incentives scheme         mission reports.
implemented for SRS staff.
1.5 Intemal audit program   1.5 Annual intemal
implemented.              audit reports and
supervision mission
reports.
1.6 Incompatible functions   1.6 Supervision
are separated             mission reports
1.7 Management and        1.7 Project
security of taxpayer case    evaluation report.
files are improved
Project Outputs (2):                                                        (Outputs to Objective)
Increased operational                                  Mid-term evaluation   Taxpayers will be
efficiency. Strengthened                               by the year 2000.    informed about changes in
enforcement and audit                                                       laws and regulations, and
capabilities. Improved      2.1 IT system developed    2.1 Supervision      tax collections will not be
taxpayer services. Reduced    on schedule and within   mission reports.     disrupted.
compliance costs.           budget.
2.2 Revenue collections   2.2 SRS reports.
maintained and revenue
targets met.
2.3 Tax arrears reduced.    2.3 SRS reports
2.4 Increased audit       2.4 SRS reports.
revenue and audit
coverage.
2.5 Increase in positive  2.5 SRS reports.
identification of violations
by Customs.
2.6 Reduced cost of       2.6 SRS reports.
collections.
2.7 Reduced taxpayer      2.7 Taxpayer survey
compliance costs.         (at start, mid-term
and end).



Page 23
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (budget for each                      (Components to Outputs)
components:                component)
(See Annex 2for detailed
Project Description)
1. Organization and        US$ 6.4 million.         Supervision reports,   Restructuring of local
Management                                        periodic project    offices will not be impeded
Component                                         status reports, and  by political pressures from
disbursement reports. affected parties, such as
A. Rationalization of                                                    local govemment, current
organizational structure.                                            tax evaders or smugglers,
B. Strategic planning,                                                   or SRS line management.
budgeting, financial and
asset management.
C. Operational management.
D. Personnel management.
E. Intemal control and
prevention of corruption.
F. Extemal and intemal
relations.
G. Management information
systems.
2. Operational Component  US$ 39.2 million.         Supervision reports,   Staff will cooperate to
periodic project    change existing
A. Taxpayer registration.                           status reports, and  procedures.
B. Tax declaration,                                 disbursement reports.
collection and recovery                                              Users acceptance will be
of arrears.                                                          high.
C. Audit and investigation.
D. Customs operations
E. Adjudication and appeals.
F. Taxpayer and customs
client services.
G. Common IT infrastructure
development.



Page 24
Annex 2
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Project Description
The State Revenue Service
The SRS is responsible for collecting Customs Duty, VAT, Enterprise Income Tax, Excise Tax,
Personal Income Tax, Land Tax, Real Property Tax, Natural Resources Tax, Social Insurance
Contributions and local fees. In addition, SRS performs various non-revenue functions, including the
administration of the Anti-corruption Law, insofar as it relates to the processing of the declarations of
income and assets filed by public officials, and the performance of financial audits requested by law
enforcement agencies. In 1997, SRS's 4,300 employees managed 83,000 business taxpayers and
collected $1,039 million in revenues.
The SRS operates in a challenging environment characterized by: (a) a frequently changing legal
framework; (b) rapidly increasing number of taxpayers, many of whom do not have much experience with
taxes and depend on the SRS for assistance in the absence of a well-developed Tax and Accounting
Profession; (c) growing complexity of business transactions; and (d) the pressure of conforming revenue
administration systems to EU requirements to facilitate early accession.
Since regaining independence in 1991, the Govemment has taken significant initiatives to increase
effectiveness of the revenue administration. The present project is a continuation of these efforts. It will
assist in deepening many of the recent reforms, while addressing other critical areas where institutional
capacity needs to be strengthened. The project would consist of two components: one aimed at improving
Organization and Management and the other at strengthening Operations.
A.    CURRENT SITUATION
1.    Organization and Management
a.    Organizational Structure
Immediately after independence, two organizations were set up to collect revenue: the State
Finance Inspection Board (for inland taxes) and the Customs Department (for customs duties and taxes
on intemational trade). In April 1994, these two entities were merged to form the SRS. Latvia is the only
Baltic State to have chosen to integrate its tax and customs agencies. The process of integration was taken
a step further by bringing the collection of Social Insurance contributions also within the purview of the
SRS, effective January 1, 1998. In line with intemational trends in tax administration modemization, local
offices of the SRS have been reorganized along functional lines, instead of being organized on the basis of
taxes administered. A Large Taxpayers Division was created in Riga, in 1995, to deal with cases of such
taxpayers. This Division currently manages about 220 large taxpayers and taxpayers related to them, who
together account for 44% of tax collections.
In August 1996, wide-ranging amendments to the Law on the State Revenue Service were made
which allowed greater flexibility in the SRS's organizational structure. As a result, functions that are
common to both tax and customs administration, such as strategic and development planning,informatics,
legal services, collection of revenue arrears and intemational affairs were combined. At present, besides



Page 25
its headquarters in Riga, the SRS has 34 local offices and about 60 customs control posts. These include
seven offices in Riga dealing with tax matters only and the Riga Customs office. The remaining 26 local
offices outside Riga handle both taxes and customs. Each of these offices has one local director and one
deputy director each for taxes and customs.
Although, significant progress has been made in developing the organizational structure, the
optimal structure is still not in place. At the operational level, 34 full-fledged local offices are too many
for a country of Latvia's size and create a needlessly wide span of control for the head quarters. While
local offices outside Riga are expected to perform the full range of tax and customs functions, many lack
the critical mass of staff required to do so: 15 of the 34 offices have less than 50 staff members and 12
offices have less than 20 customs staff. The workload distribution between local offices is uneven.
Reporting, coordination and control linkages with Headquarters are inadequate. Coordination between
local offices is also weak. At the headquarters, integration between taxes and customs is incomplete.
There are separate Tax and Customs Departments each headed by a Deputy Director General.
b.    Management
Since 1997 the SRS has adopted strategic planning to provide a focus to its modernization efforts.
In addition to annual strategic programs for 1997 to 1999, a Strategic Plan for the SRS for 1998-2002; a
Strategic Information Systems Plan and a Training Strategy have been developed. Business planning has
been instituted to organize the operational work of different offices. All local offices prepare, defend and
implement detailed Business Plans that include strategic targets, performance indicators, revenue
projections and resource requirements. The amendment of the Law on the SRS mentioned above, has
introduced fundamental changes in personnel management. SRS staff have been taken out of the Civil
Service and made subject to the private sector Labor Code. This has freed the SRS management from
constraints imposed by the Law on the Civil Service and has given it greater flexibility in hiring,
promoting and firing employees and setting remuneration levels. The practice of executing performance
contracts has been introduced, with contracts being signed between the Minister of Finance and the
Director General, between the Director General and local Directors and between the Directors and their
staff.
Notwithstanding these important initiatives, the managerial capacity of the SRS requires
considerable improvement. This would involve both the refinement and institutionalization of recent
innovations as well as the strengthening of management in other areas. Important deficiencies that need to
be addressed are discussed below.
Methodologies for preparation of strategic and annual plans, formulation and substantiation of
budget requests, and planning and execution of budgeted expenditures are still at an incipient stage and
the link between organizational objectives, activities, expenditures and performance is not strong. Rules
and procedures for financial and asset management need to be improved.
The administrative aspects of laws, regulations and norms relating to tax, customs and social
security collections need to be improved to grant the SRS adequate enforcement powers, reduce
administrative discretion and make its procedures compatible with the EU. The supervision of field
offices is limited to monitoring of performance statistics, with inadequate emphasis on quality of work and
client service. Forms, document flows and business processes are not standardized across all field offices
causing management difficulties and increasing administrative and compliance costs. Coordination
between tax and customs functions of the SRS in policy formulation, sharing of information and conduct
of joint operations in overlapping areas, such as audits and investigations, is not strong. Also, there is
very little coordination in the development and execution of modernization programs. Managers and staff
of the two areas still perceive themselves as belonging to two different organizations.



Page 26
In the area of human resource management, performance contracting is, as yet, at a preliminary
stage. There is a need to improve the specificity of performance indicators, develop mechanisms for
objective evaluation of performance and link actual performance to rewards and sanctions. At present, no
clear career paths exists for SRS. This affects staff commitment to organizational goals as well as its
morale. Policies for recruitment, promotion, transfer and discipline of SRS staff need to be improved to
increase transparency and objectivity. The remuneration of SRS staff, especially customs staff in local
offices and all staff in Riga, are below market comparators. Although, some flexibility is available to
management to increase salaries of individual staff based on seniority, level of responsibility, risk and
performance, the overall remuneration level is insufficient to attract and retain the skills needed by the
SRS. There are deficiencies in training of managers in modem management practices, especially at the
middle level. The capacity of the SRS Training School to provide or procure high quality training for
staff needs to be strengthened.
The SRS, like most revenue administration entities, is vulnerable to corruption. The level of
discretion available to SRS officials engaged in customs operation and tax enforcement is high. There is
considerable personal contact between field officials, taxpayers, importers and their agents. Lack of
detailed regulations under the Customs Code increases the scope for corruption. The SRS does not have
an intemal audit unit, although efforts are being made to establish such a unit with the assistance of EU
PHARE. Intemal controls are not well developed and those that exist are not uniformly applied. Rules
for delegation of financial authority have not been developed.  There is inadequate transparency in
decision-making. No line management inspection/supervision regimes are in place. There are no intemal
grievance procedures and systems. The SRS has adopted a Code of Ethics. However, its intemalization
amongst staff needs to be enhanced. Anti-corruption work is the responsibility of the Financial Police.
Since the Financial Police itself investigates cases of serious tax evasion, its anti-corruption efforts are
subject to a serious conflict of interest. The SRS is responsible for monitoring declarations of assets and
incomes by public officials. At the moment the unit in charge of this activity is merely receiving such
declarations. There is a need to strengthen the relevant law, create methodologies for processing these
declarations and train staff of the unit.
Finally, there is a need to improve communications within the organization in order to ensure the
full operational integration of tax, customs and social security collection activities, introduce a results-
oriented culture, strengthen integrity and facilitate the modemization process. At the same time, the
SRS's communications with external stakeholders including the Judiciary, taxpayers, importers, brokers,
transporters, warehouse operators, chambers of commerce etc., need to be strengthened.
c.    Operations
The SRS has taken various steps to increase its ability to effectively implement tax and customs
laws. Some of the initiatives have been self-financed, while others have been assisted by different donors.
In tax administration, EU PHARE has helped in developing laws, rules and regulations for VAT, Excise
and Income Tax, in line with EU standards; providing short-term consulting services in the areas of
taxpayer registration, tax collection, audit, case-filing, intemal audit and library facilities; and training
staff in taxpayer services, tax audit, intemal audit and planning. The US Treasury has provided technical
assistance in collection enforcement. In Customs administration, a multi-pronged modernization program
supported by EU PHARE, Denmark and Sweden has been developed. A new Customs law has been
passed; four Free Zones have been created; border posts on the eastem border are being strengthened;
with the assistance of Crown Agents, FAST TEAMS for anti-smuggling operations have been created and
a risk analysis system has been installed; the ASYCUDA system for computerizing customs operations is
being developed; mutual assistance agreements have been concluded with many countries; and Customs
officers have been trained.



Page 27
At the operational level, the biggest deficiency is the inadequacy of computerization. The
coverage of the current information systems of the SRS is very limited. These systems, built on obsolete
PC software (FoxPro), are scattered in SRS offices and among functional units. They offer little to no
integration across these functions and offices, preventing routine cross-checking a taxpayer's transactions
among taxes and across jurisdictions. Equally problematic, the existing systems are poorly documented,
highly inflexible and generally not scaleable. As a result, they exhibit very high software maintenance
costs associated with keeping pace with changing regulations, business processes, organizational
arrangements and technological characteristics of the underlying hardware platform. In addition, these
systems expose SRS operations to substantial risks, as a result of the low level of data and system
security/integrity and weak capacity to provide continuity of operations in the event of a disruption or
disaster.
Besides weak information systems, SRS operations suffer from various other deficiencies. The
SRS is unable to detect non-filers, stop-filers and tax defaulters in time. Good quality information on real-
time transactions of taxpayers is not available. There is no system for risk analysis and selection of cases
for tax audit. The investigation function, outside the Financial Police, is non-existent and tax audits tend
be perfunctory. Staff skills in tax audit and investigation of tax fraud are inadequate. Tax arrears are high
and recovery procedures not very effective. There are significant deficiencies in the control of transit
trade and bonded warehouses. The infrastructure at Customs posts for inspection of cargo, surveillance
and communication is inadequate. Objectivity and equity in hearing of objections to SRS actions need to
be improved. Cases before the Judiciary suffer long delays, judges lack adequate knowledge of tax
matters and tend to assign a low priority to these cases. There is considerable scope for enhancing the
quality of representation of the SRS before the judiciary.
B.    ASSISTANCE TO BE PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT
The project would provide consultant services, training, goods and minor civil works to
strengthen the organization, management and operational capabilities of the SRS on a sustainable basis.
For this purpose, the project would support the following activities:
1. Organization and Management Component - US$ 5.4 million ($6.4 million including recurrent
costs)
a.    Rationalization of Organizational Structures -- US$ 2.3 million (investment costs)
(a) Develop a three-level organization structure for the SRS consisting of the Central
headquarters, 6-9 Regional Offices, performing most of the substantive tax and customs administration
functions, and attached Local Offices, essentially providing taxpayer services and/or serving as customs
posts controlling important entry points. This would help realize economies of scale, shorten span of
control, ensure adequate staffing of important functions and improve coordination. (b) Develop SRS
unified functions, tasks and classificatory of actions. (c) Develop job descriptions on the basis of
classificatory for structural unit of pilot offices. (d) Implement the new organizational structure in
Zemgale Region and Latgale Region, on a pilot basis. (e) Implement the new Regional and Local structure
throughout the country. (f) Develop and implement structural improvements at the central level; (g) Train
managers and staff to facilitate implementation of the new structure.
b.    Strategic planning, budgeting, financial and asset management  -- US$ 1.0 million
(investment costs)
(a) Improve methodology for preparation of Strategic and Activity Plans. (b) Develop and
implement methodology for preparation of budgets and substantiation of cost effectiveness of budget
proposals. (c) Develop and implement planning methodology for SRS expenditures. (d) Train managers
in strategy, planning, budgeting, use of information for management decisions, project management,



Page 28
financial management and asset management. (e) Develop and refine Informatics Strategy. (f) Develop
rules and procedures for acquisition, control, accounting, maintenance, security, retention, verification and
disposal of assets of the SRS, including information and official records. (g) Renew SRS bookkeeping and
budgeting information systems (h) Develop information systems to manage life-cycle ofSRS's physical
assets, with linkage to other management modules. (i) Develop information systems to support life-cycle
management of SRS's information assets, including paper documents. (j) Implement basic work-flow
system, including electronic capture, routing, storage and management of selected documents, based on
image scanning (although production use of character recognition will wait for the maturation of these
technologies).
c.    Operational management -- US$ 0.4 million (investment costs)
(a) Improve administrative aspects of tax, customs and social security laws to increase the
effectiveness of the SRS in implementing them and to make them compatible with EU requirements.
(b) Improve rules, regulations and norms relating to different areas of SRS operations including penalties.
(c) Develop unified forms for SRS outgoing documents. (d) Develop improved SRS document flows.
(e) Increase operational autonomy of regional managers, subject to strict accountability for results.
(f) Develop and implement evaluation system for central, regional and local offices. (g) Review and re-
engineer business processes of the central, regional and local offices to improve efficiency, effectiveness
and integrity of the SRS and reduce compliance costs for taxpayers. (h) Strengthen supervision of field
offices. (i) Strengthen coordination and communication linkages between different organizational units.
d.    Personnel management -- US$ 0.6 million (investment costs)
(a) Develop and implement a differentiated pay and incentives system for SRS staff. (b) Develop
career paths for SRS staff at all levels. (c) Develop and implement transparent rules and procedures for
staff recruitment, promotion, rotation and discipline. (d) Enhance the contracting process by improving
performance indicators, performance measurement and evaluation systems and linking performance to
institutional incentives. (e) Develop and implement methodological instructions for the employees of SRS
Personnel Divisions. (f) Enhance physical security and access controls, using ID making equipment.
(g) Evaluate skills of SRS staff in view of revised functions and job descriptions. (h) Strengthen the
capacity of the SRS Training Unit to deliver or procure high quality training. (i) Develop a graduated
structure of pay and incentives at a high enough level to attract and retrain high quality and committed
staff. (j) Renew SRS's personnel and payroll information systems, to put them on a more technically
sound and secure footing, and increase their flexibility and capabilities -- including support for the internal
performance contracting system and linkages to other modules, such as bookkeeping, budgeting and the
management information system.
e.    Internal controls and prevention of corruption -- US$ 0.4 million (investment costs)
(a) Develop and implement SRS internal audit strategy. (b) Develop training course on internal
audit. (c) Train internal audit personnel. (d) Design audit information systems. (e) Create and equip a
Vigilance Unit to monitor and investigate conduct of SRS staff. (f) Develop guidelines for managers for
dealing with corruption cases. (g) Train staff about Code of Ethics. (h) Train' staff of the Vigilance Unit.
(i) Improve legislation relating to declaration of assets and income by public officials. (j) Develop
methodology for processing the declarations. (k) Train staff of the declaration Monitoring Unit.
(1) Provide resources to the Monitoring Unit for handling of declarations of income and assets by public
officials, including parliamentarians and ministers. (m) Provide standardized documentation feeding into
wide area communication networks. (n) Minimize contact with the public by separating advice to
taxpayers from the collection and processing of returns. (o) Enhance capacity to cross check and monitor
operational activities across functions and geographical spans of SRS activities, by the implementation of
unified and integrated tax and customs information systems. (p) Introduce computerized risk analysis
criteria into selection of cases for tax audit and customs inspection. (q) Generalize the use of tax
identification numbers. (r) Improve controls on warehouses and temporary imports. (s) Standardize and



Page 29
strengthen supervision routines. (t) Strengthen the appeal system. (u) Reduce the degree of discretion
available to many officers, particularly at the local level and at the borders. (v) Establish a channel for
taxpayer complaints.
f.     External and internal relations -- US$ 0.1 million (investment costs)
(a) Design and organize periodic client surveys, with links to SRS performance assessment,
operational design and public awareness initiatives. (b) Design public relations campaigns aimed at staff,
taxpayers, importers, transporters, brokers, warehouse operators etc. (c) Develop strategies and
mechanisms to support and liaise with professional groups involved in tax-related activities, such as
preparers, lawyers, industry associations, accountants, etc. (d) Develop mechanisms for exchange of
information with other govemment agencies and foreign countries. (e) Train staff in change management.
g.     Management information system -- US$ 0.6 million (investment costs)
(a) Design and implement a management information system (MIS) to bring together the
necessary information on management functions and operational activities to support decision-making at
each level of SRS management. (b) Integrate data from resource management systems as well as tax and
customs operational information systems.
2. Operational component - US$ 29.9 million ($39.2 million including recurrent costs)
The Operational Component of the project would extend the capacity building efforts initiated by
the SRS in the areas of tax, customs and collection of social insurance collections. The objective would
be to increase the productivity of routine operations, while improving the SRS's ability to fight tax
evasion, smuggling and defaults in revenue payments.
This component would help modernize the SRS's operational information systems to overcome
the deficiencies in the existing systems. The new systems would increase coverage of SRS's operational
functions and provide a full range of application, data and systems management tools. In addition, the
component would assist in re-engineering business processes, developing methodologies and training
staff.
a.     Taxpayer registration -- US$ 3 million (investment costs)
The project will implement SRS's new taxpayer registration system. "Phase 1" and "Phase 2" of
the registry, which will be completed by the end of 1998, implement a central database of taxpayers (legal
and physical), replication of registry sub-sets to regional/local offices, and cross-jurisdictional queries.
Phase 3, in 1999, will implement additional data recording to support functions introduced in other
modules such as collection, audit, social insurance collections, etc. Phase 3, among other things, will also
implement the links between SRS's unified taxpayer registration and the renewed citizen, enterprise and
cadastre registers. During 1997-98, SRS has funded and overseen the development of these registers for
the benefit of the Ministry of Justice and Ministry of Interior. The project will support the completion of
these external registers in 1999, as well as the implementation of a common, "meta-register" (a register of
the data and other characteristics of the various public registers). The meta-register will help maintain
consistency among these key public registers. In addition, the process of registration of taxpayers will be
simplified and a methodology for registration and monitoring of businesses operating in free economic
zones will be developed and implemented.
b.    Declaration, collection and recovery of arrears -- US$ 3.3 million (investment costs)
The project will implement SRS's new declaration processing system including unification of
income tax and social insurance contribution declarations. Together with the consolidated taxpayer
accounting sub-system and payments recording sub-system, the declaration processing sub-system
constitutes the "kernel" of the integrated Tax Information System (TIS). Phase 1 and Phase 2, which will



Page 30
be completed by end of 1998, encompasses the bulk of the system development work for the kemel
(including processing of VAT, PIT, CIT, Excise Tax, Gambling Tax, Natural Resource Tax, Real Estate
Tax, and Social Insurance Contributions declarations). Phase 3, in 1999, will primarily cover the roll-out
of these functions to SRS offices nationwide. In addition to the aforementioned declarations, the system
will also address State Officials income declarations, Enterprise Annual Report declarations, large-value
cash transactions reports, and tax payment registration (data from the Treasury on taxpayer payments
which flows through the banking system to the Treasury).
The project will support the development of standard procedures and automated tools for the
collections, enforcement and arrears management functions. These include monitoring systems with
automated triggers and wamings for the collections staff. They also include case action recording and
case file management tools. In addition, closer collaboration will be made with the State Committee for
Statistics and the Enterprise Registry to better identify non-filers. Also, a database of precedent-setting
cases on important issues in tax and customs administration for reference by SRS staff will be developed.
c.     Audit and investigation -- US$ 3.3 million (investment costs)
The project will support a major strengthening of the audit function. This includes buildingSRS's
capacity to analyze compliance patterns and develop criteria for an audit case selection, as well as to
develop an integrated approach for auditing social tax and income tax. Under the project, SRS will
acquire a "full-cycle" audit system, including tools to plan, specify, conduct and evaluate audits. This
system will build on the information base created through the routine transactions and taxpayer accounts.
Among other things, these tools will record results, prepare appropriate communications and assess audit
quality. To facilitate SRS's transition from the traditional practice of numerous, "shallow" audits to the
contemporary approach of relatively few, but well-selected and careful audits, the project will support the
development of data management and data analysis tools which will allow the selection of audits based on
the pattems and profiles of taxpayers and taxpayer activities. In this context, SRS will move operational
data to special "data warehouse" systems (and combine it with other data). There statistical and other data
analysis tools can be used without compromising the performance or integrity of the operational data and
transactions processing. Such data and analysis, particularly of compliance, would also feed the SRS's
performance monitoring mechanisms to provide a quantitative base to measure progress on compliance
rates and equity. Extensive training would be provided to staff in tax audit and investigation of tax fraud.
The capacity of the Financial Police to investigate serious cases of tax evasion and smuggling will be
strengthened.
d.    Customs operations -- US$ 3.5 million (investment costs)
The project will support a wide range of capacity strengthening in the areas of trade facilitation,
classification and valuation of imports, physical inspection of goods, warehousing, detection of smuggling
activities and the confiscation and disposal of contraband. SRS is in the process of devising an integrated
Customs Information System (CIS). The structure and approach to the CIS is unfolding, in large measure,
through the process of the EU-PHARE financed pilot of UNCTAD's ASYCUDA++ system. This system,
which centers around the processing of customs declaration, is being piloted in two sites, in conjunction
with similar pilots in Estonia and Lithuania. In the course of the pilot, which runs through mid-1999, SRS
will determine which modules and functions in ASYCUDA++ it will generalize to the whole of the
customs administration, and which modules and functions need further development (e.g., transit trade).
Under the Project, these will be integrated to extend the CIS. Also, further development of the CIS will be
supported by the project.
One obvious benefit of the CIS will be a common customs information system for all border posts
and inland customs offices throughout Latvia. Through SRS's wide area network (WAN) other benefits
include the capacity to: (a) track freight across internal jurisdictions as well as across international
borders; (b) respond to suspicious traffic before the traffickers can exit the country or disappear within it;



Page 31
(c) operate the newly-legislated, credit-based tariff collection scheme using up-to-date data on the credit
balances and credit limits of eligible traders; (d) transmit to the relevant tax office(s) tax payments and
credits information regarding transactions that are conducted at customs posts in connection with cross-
border trade (e.g., excise and natural resource taxes and VAT); and, (e) better sharing of intelligence
information between customs and tax functions.
The Project also provides various non-IT equipment, such as vehicles, for customs operations, in
particular to strengthen anti-smuggling operations.
e.     Adjudication and appeals -- US$ 0.1 million (investment costs)
The Project will support activities aimed at strengthening and streamlining the system for
adjudication of objections and appeals resulting from the SRS's actions, so as to enhance transparency,
objectivity and equity. It will help improve the quality of representation of the SRS before the courts to
ensure that the interests of revenue are adequately safeguarded. Although there is no appeals-specific sub-
system, the appeals process will be facilitated by the automated document management tools implemented
under the project. In addition, the case-action and case-file tools developed to support collections and
enforcement will also facilitate the appeals function.
f.     Taxpayer & customs client services -- US$ 0.3 million (investment costs)
The project will support a wide range of capacity building activities in the area of taxpayer and
customs client services, including: (a) developing methods to assess and monitor service standards from
the client perspective, through, among other things periodic surveys; (b) developing strategies for
improving taxpayer education; (c) developing and implementing ground floor taxpayer inquiry counters
and facilities for depositing tax declarations and forms; (d) training staff in customer assistance
techniques; (e) designing new procedures for receiving and processing declarations and forms. To help
reduce the cost of tax and customs compliance to taxpayers and importers, exporters, transporters,
brokers, warehouse operators, etc., the project will support a number of outreach functions to assist them
with information about regulations, procedures and other such matters. These include the strengthening of
SRS's Web site, the implementation of information servers for automated voice-based and fax-based
information dissemination. In addition, SRS will facilitate the development of electronic filing of
declarations, by supporting the development of taxpayer software and enhancing SRS's technical capacity
to accept and process electronic filings. Periodic surveys of taxpayers are also planned to improve
taxpayer services and to get a feedback into the internal performance monitoring and contracting process.
g.     Common IT infrastructure development -- US$ 16.4 million (investment costs)
Whereas the other sub-components of the Operations Component focus on implementing and/or
strengthening of SRS business functions, the Common IT Infrastructure sub-component separately
addresses the underlying technology platform for these business functions. The reason is two-fold. First,
the common IT infrastructure is shared by most, if not all, of SRS's operational and management systems.
Accordingly, these underlying technologies are hard to apportion meaningfully to each business function.
Second, the common infrastructure itself needs management, particularly in the form of security,
integrated operations management, and business continuity and disaster recovery. Thus, the project places
special emphasis on implementing the required systems management tools for the IT infrastructure. The
common infrastructure comprises:  database technologies, system  software, processing equipment
(servers, PCs), input and output devices (e.g., printers and scanners), local and wide area data networking
equipment, and communications service subscriptions.
Overall, the sub-component supports: (a) IT planning and coordination; (b) informatics staff
development; (c) informatics-related, physical facilities development; (d) WAN and LAN
implementations; (e) a distributed processing and database architecture, comprising central and local
servers (both database and application) and intelligent workstations (PCs); (f) power conditioning, un-



Page 32
interruptable power supplies, and (for remote customs posts) generators; (g) comprehensive system
security and integrated system management tools; and (h) back-up and other business-continuity / disaster
recovery resources.
The WAN warrants some additional description. It is primarily based on leased equipment and
leased data channels, which SRS will obtain from a set of digital communications service providers (and
their corresponding mix of channel medium). A large measure of the financial cost of the WAN,
particularly the links to the customs posts, is offset by savings associated with the consolidation (into a
dedicated digital line) of the conventional analog voice communications capacity required by Customs,
Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Agriculture and other public offices co-located with the customs staff.
This arrangement permits data communications to be automatically squeezed into the unused bandwidth,
which expands and contracts in response to voice traffic.



Page 33
Annex 3
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Services Modernization Project
Components Project Cost Summary
(US$'000)
Local      Foreign         Total
Organization & Management Component        2,639         3,385         6,024
Operations Component                      14,581        22,405        36,986
Total Baseline Costs                   17,220       25,790        43,010
Physical Contingencies                       261         1,155         1,416
Price Contingencies                          990           271         1,261
Total Project Costs                    18,471       27,216        45,687



Page 34
Annex 4
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Cost - Recovery Analysis Summary
Present Value of Flows               Fiscal Impact
Economic        Financial
Analysis        Analysis        Taxes            Subsidies
Benefits
Incremental revenue                    US$ 250         US$ 250          None
from a permanent, one-                 million (1998    million
time I percentage point                constant) over  increase in
increase (relative to 1997             29 years @       revenues
levels) in the compliance              10% discount   collected
rates for taxes, customs
& social insurance                     rate.            (present value
contributions, starting in                             in 1998
2000                                                    constant
dollars over 29
years).
Costs
Investment costs, plus                 US$ 143         US$ 26 million  None
incremental recurrent                  million (1998   (present value
costs plus 5-year                      constant         in 1998
straight-line depreciation             dollars) over    constant
on physical and                        29 years @      dollars over 29
technological assets                   10% discount   years
rate.
Net Benefits:                            Net Benefits
IRR                                      US$ 107
million.
IRR =28.7%
Summary of Benefits and Costs
The economic benefits from the modemization of tax, customs and social insurance contribution
administration come through a number of channels. Among the most important are increases in the
effectiveness of revenue administration, as manifest in increased compliance rates, and increases in the
efficiency of revenue collection, as manifest in lower administrative costs per Lat collected and lower
compliance costs for taxpayers and for those engaged in intemational trade and transport. Other less
quantifiable benefits associated with the project include: (a) more equitable distribution of the tax and
customs burdens; (b) reductions in corruption in revenue administration; (c) reduction in rent-seeking and
distortions associated with illegal and evasive behavior; (d) benefits associated with regional integration,
and EU accession in particular; and (e) increased economic growth through lower, less distortionary tax
rates, in particular a lower rate for social insurance contributions by 2002.



Page 35
Because of inadequacy of reliable data on compliance costs, a precise cost - benefit analysis
cannot be undertaken at this stage. Instead, the quantitative analysis presented here is a simple a cost -
recovery analysis. This analysis focuses simply on ensuring that an exceedingly pessimistic projected
increase in the effectiveness of revenue administration will be sufficient to raise revenues in excess of the
cost of the modernization program. In this case, the present value of a permanent, one-time increase in
revenue performance of merely 0.7 percent is sufficient to cover the present value of investment costs.
incremental recurrent costs and depreciation. The analysis also shows that increases in administrative
effectiveness sufficient to increase revenue performance by 3 percent are sufficient to cover total costs
more than four times over. (A one percent increase represents a fiscal gain of US$ 48 million in NPV at a
10 percent discount rate, and yields an IRR of 29%.)
International experiences suggest that, although the actual increase in revenue performance
associated with such modernization investments are hard to predict, they invariably exceed the associated
costs by a large margin. With an informal economy estimated to be equivalent to a quarter of GDP, there
is little reason to suggest that Latvia would prove to be the exception.
Turned around, the analysis indicates that the cost of obtaining increased administrative
effectiveness -- through which project derives benefits such as more equitable and less distortionary tax
and customs burdens -- is quite low.
It should be strongly emphasized the above cost - recovery analysis is only a proxy for the other
benefits of the project. The Government does not intend to transfer the improved revenue into higher
expenditure. Indeed, the project will: (a) allow fiscal flows to be maintained as privatization revenues tail
off; and (b) permit tax rates to be lowered over time.
Main Assumptions
Three assumptions of the cost - recovery analysis are notable. First the model assumes away
changes in many extra-project factors that determine actual revenue performance, such as changing
economic conditions and other drivers of economic growth. Second, it assumes no deterioration in
revenue performance in the no-investment scenario. Third, it also assumes that the increase in the revenue
performance would begin only in the year 2000, the 3rd year of the investment program. These last two
understate the revenue benefits from the investments. As the economic transformation progresses and the
private sector expands and becomes more sophisticated, revenue authorities must actually work harder to
maintain the same level of revenue collections. Also, many of the key operational systems become active
in 1998 and 1999 and thus, improvements in administrative effectiveness and revenue performance
should appear earlier than estimated in the model.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items
With a ten percent discount rate, the present value of the total cost of the project is covered by
only a 0.7 point permanent increase in revenue compliance, relative to the 1997 levels. Given estimates
of the informal economy of at least 25 percent of GDP, this is far below what can be reasonably assumed
for modernizing the Latvian revenue administration system. The return of the present value of total. costs
for 3 and 5 point increases are 353 and 656 percent, respectively (and IRRs of 124 and 196 percent).
Return on Present Value of Total Costs
-- sensitivity analysis -
discount rate              incremental revenue (percentage over 1997)
i  .0.o.5 -. 0.7-    1.0    2.0      3.0 .  . 50
-20%       5%      60%     220%      379%     699%    1498%
-22%       3%      55%     211%      366%     677%    1453%
-24%       0%      51%     202%      353%     656%    1411%
M     S  -28%   -5%      43%      187%     330%     617%    1333%



Page 36
Annex 5
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Financial Summary
(US$ '000)
1998     1999      2000      2001      2002     Total
PROJECTI COSTS
Total Investment Costs    7,754    13,063      8,117    4,746     1,694    35,374
Total Recurrent Costs       453     1,556      2,335    2,889    3,080    10,313
total    8,206    14,619    10,453    7,635    4,774    45,687
FINANCING SOURCES
IB3RD                         0      1,620     1,721    1,420      293      5,054
Govemment
o/w investment funds     7,754    11,444      6,396    3,326    1,401    30,320
o/w administrative funds  453      1,556      2,335    2,889    3,080    10,313
sub-total (Govt.)    8,206    12,999  8,732    6,215    4,480    40,633
total    8,206    14,619    10,453    7,635    4,774    45,687
% of total costs
IBRD                       0%       11%        16%      19%       6%        11%
Government               100%       89%io     84%       81%      94%       89%
sub-total    100%     100%b     1000/%    1000/0    100%     100%
miemorandum The 1999 Government investment funds are US$ 8.0 million from the Public
Investrnent Program plus US$ 3.0 million of SRS's US$ 5.9 million allocation from the
supplemental budget.
Main assumptions
The availability of the necessary funds from the Public Investment Program to cover the
investment costs and adequate administrative budget for the SRS to cover the incremental recurrent costs.



Page 37
Annex 6
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement Arrangements (Table A)
Summary of Procurement Activities (Table B)
Section 1: Procurement Review.
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical
Assistance requirements.
Section 3: Training, Information and Development on Procurement.
Section 4: Procurement Staffing.
Section 5: Procurement Plan.
Disbursement
Allocation of Loan Proceeds (Table C)
Disbursement Categories (Table D)



Page 38
Annex 6, Table A
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Services Modernizaton Project
Procurement Arrangements
(US$ '000)
Procurement Method
International   National
Competitive   Competitive
Bidding      Bidding       Other       N.B.F.       Total
A. Works
Buildings
Infrastructure                                -
Rehabilitation & Maintenance                  -            -            -      1,147.0      1,147.0
B. Goods and S&I
1. Equipment and Machinery
Info. & comm. tech.                   2,478.0            -       299.3     23,872.6     26,649.8
(2,100.0)                 (251.0)                 (2,351.0)
Office equipment & fumishings               -            -           -       1,305.9      1,305.9
Vehicles                                538.8            -           -        264.8        803.6
(456.6)                                           (456.6)
2. Construction materials                     -            -            -           -
3. Commodities
C. Technical Service Contracts                  -            -            -           -
D. Consultancies
1. Studies, Engineering and Supervision       -           -            -            -
2. Technical Assistance                       -            -      1,687.7      1,391.7     3,079.4
(1,430.3)                (1,430.3)
3. Training                                   -            -       963.4       1,425.2     2,388.6
(816.5)                  (816.5)
E. Miscellaneous
1. PPF Repayment                              -            -           -            -
2. Recurrent Cost
Equipment 0 & M                             -            -           -      10,312.6    10,312.6
Incremental Staff                           -            -           -            -
Facilities
Total                                 3,016.8            -      2,950.4     39,719.8    45,687.0
(2,556.6)                (2,497.7)           -    (5,054.3)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IBRD. NBF = Not Bank Financed. Other methods
include approximately US$ 300,000 in Intemational Shopping (o/w US$ 251,000 is Bank-financed) and
approximately USS 2.65 million in consulting services (o/w 2.25 million is Bank-financed).



Annex 6, Table B
Summary of Procurement Activities
% of loan
Minor                 Other                               subject to prior
ICB                     NCB                           IS                            NS                      Works                 Methods                                     review
Works
Procurement thresholds:
individuals and aggregate
(Bank-finance)
Prior review                                                                                                                                                                                                               0%
.........................._L. ...   ..... .........   . ..... .. ...... .. .. .. .......... ..  . . ... .. .........  ..........  .   ..... ...... . . .......  ..    .   ...... .    .......  ......... . .........
Goods
Procurement thresholds:                   Above $300,000                                       Below $300,000                  Below $75,000
individual and aggregate
(Bank-finance)                          Aggregate:.                                          Aggregate              ..
US$ 3.02 million                                     USS 0.30 million
(2.56 million)                                       (0.25 million)
Prior Review                                   l                                                First                          First
Packages                                             Contract                       Contract                                                                                       55%
Single
QBCS                                            Fixed Budget                                                                        Source/
(firms)                    QBS                       (firms)                         LCS                 Qualifications    Co-Fin    Individual
Consultants
P . _._ ..   ..........  _ ............ ..... _....... .    ....... ...  ... ....... ... ... ..... . . -  - ... -----.......................
Procurement method                         Aggregate:
thresholds:                      US$ 2.65 million
(Bank-finance)                        (2.25 million)
_ __ _ __ ! ___ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..___. _.    .. ........... .  ..... .  .._..    .  _ ._._. .  ..............  .. ..  . ....  .    .___.     .  .......  . ..............  ... .
I All TOR and            !!
Prior Review                        Short Lists for
all assignments  i                                                                                                                                                                     45%
RFP/SL and
Contract           '                      '-                                                                                       _                                      _ __._!
Ex-post Review                                Ex-post Review carried out in accordance with Para. 4 of Appendix I of the Bank's Guidelines and reviews during supervision missions.



Brief statement:
Overall responsibility for Project management and coordination will rest with the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in the State Revenue Service in July 1998.
A CPAR for the Republic of Latvia has not yet been completed. For this project, the        Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready by
Government will follow the agreed Bank procurement procedures, as described in this        negotiations
document, in the Loan Agreement, and the Guidelines Procurement under IBRD Loans and   Yes   0           No 0  Under preparation X
IDA Credits January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and September 1997, and the
Guidelines Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers January
1997.
Estimated date of Project      !lEstimated date of publication of     Indicate if there is procurement       Domestic Preference for          Domestic Preference for
Launch Workshop                  General Procurement Notice           subject to mandatory SPN in            Goods                            Works, if applicable
Development Business
January 28-29, 1999                 December, 1 1998            Yes 0        No   X                     Yes   0        No    X          Yes   0         No  X
Rtoctive financing                                                                                                                                                                CD
Yes 0       No X    Explain:
Explain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
The procurement plan (see section 1) will be up-dated monthly, with any changes in the expected dates noted and explained. This plan will be sent to the Bank on a quarterly
basis during the first two years of the project and semi-annually after that.
.... . ..... ............I............... ........ ............................................................................................................... .......................................
Co-financing:
No co-financing used in this project. SRS will use standard public procurement procedures for all non-Bank financed items.
Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Latvia State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Name: Rama Chandran for general procurement. Craig Neal for information systems procurement.
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: None.



1  2   3              4               5                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 Estimated Dates
Descriiip tio-n-       .Type         N__o'. 'of  Estimat-ied    Procureme           Pre-         Bid doc. IBid                  -Contract        Contract
items I        cost         nt method        qualific-        RPsigning                                    completion
slices!                                       ation!
pkgs.                                        Short-
listing
I Invitation,   1. Prepare     I. Invitation,
GPN   SPN       ~      GPN/SPN/
local advert.  .local advert.
2. Opening.                    2. Opening.
3. Eval. &                     3. Eva]. &
recommend.                     recommend.
of Award
1. Consulting srices for         CS            1         US..........2.65...  ....                                                       ..Q...B....1. Nov. 98  Dec. 98  I. Feb. 99  May 99  Dec. 02
TA and training                                          mu                          .Dc  82. Mar. 99
I                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2. Dec. 98        3.Ari9
2. Full-cycl audit info. S&I of        I         US$ 2.48           1CB             n.a.        Nov.-Dec.  .1. Jan. 99           Aug. 99          Dec. 02
system & training.        iinfo.                         mil.         (2-stage)   .98                               2. May 99
Sys.                                                                                  (2nd stage)
-   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ..~~~~~~~..                         -                        - ~~~~~~~~~~~~3 .    Ju l.  9 9
3. Optical storage fo,r plo'_t"_[_ Gods        1        - U'S '3 0-0    .  ....  ...IS_'    n.----a-.   "N o'v .98,    L. D'ec'. 9'9      Jain.- 99"    .M' Mar. '9'9
regional offices                                        to.2. Jan. 99
archives     __       -..                                                                                           3. Jan. 99                                  -
4. Vehicles for customs  I Goods  2   US$ 538           1G~      ~     ~~~B n.a.      Mar. 99       1. May 99         Aug. 99         Mar. 00 
anti-smnuggling           Ithiou.                                                                                   2. Jun. 99
__                                                ..~~~~~~~~~~~  ...      1~~~~~~~~~~~.. Jul. 99 



Page 42
Annex 6, Table C
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Services Modernization Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
IBRD
(US$ '000)
Loan Amount  Disbursement %
A. Works
Rehabilitation and Maintenance                  -_-
Subtotal Works                                         -
B. Goods and S&I
1. Equipment & Machinery
Info. & comm. tech.                          2,239.1              8.8
Office equipment & fumishings
Vehicles                                       434.8             56.8
Subtotal Goods and S&I                           2,673.9
C. Technical Service Contracts
D. Consultancies
2. Technical assistance                        1,430.3             46.4
3. Training                                      816.5             34.2
Subtotal Consultancies                           2,246.7
E. Miscellaneous
2. Recurrent cost
Equipment operations & maintenance
Subtotal Miscellaneous
Unallocated                                        133.7
Total                                            5,054.3             11.1



PRage 43
Annex 6, Table D
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Services Modernization Project
Disbursement Categories
(US$ million)
Category               Amount    Percentage of Expenditures
to be Financed
Works
Rehabilitation and Maintenance       0.00               none
Goods and S&I
Equipment & Machinery                2.67      100 offoreign expenditures
Info. & comm. tech.                2.24      100% of local manufactures
Office equipment & furnishings      -        (ex-factory cost), or 80% of
Vehicles                           0.43      other items procured locally.
Technical Service Contracts           0.00                none
Consultancies                         2.25                100%
Technical assistance                 1.43
Training                             0.82
Miscellaneous                         0.00                none
Recurrent cost
Unallocated                           0.13
Total                  5.05
Special Account. To facilitate project implementation SRS would establish a Special Account in
one of the commercial banks, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, to cover the Bank's share
of expenditures. The Authorized Allocation would be DEM 650,000, representing about four months of
average expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stage of the project, the initial
allocation to the Special Account would be limited to DEM 300,000. However, when the aggregate
disbursements under the Loan have reached DEM 1,700,000, the initial allocation may be increased up to
the Authorized Allocation of DEM 650,000, by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or when one-third of
the amount has been withdrawn, which ever occurs earlier.  Documentation requirements for
replenishment would follow standard Bank procedure as described in the Disbursement Handbook,
Chapter 6. Monthly statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the Borrower
would accompany all replenishment requests.
The minimum size of the application for direct payment and the issuance of special commitment
would be twenty percent of the prevailing Special Account allocation.
Statement of Expenditures. All disbursements against contracts for goods exceeding
DEM 500,000 will be fully documented. For expenditures for goods below that level, disbursements
would be made against Statement of Expenditures (SOEs). Similarly, SOEs would be used for



Page 44
disbursements against contracts for consulting services from firms up to DEM 170,000. For these
expenditures, detailed documents evidencing expenditures will be reviewed and kept by the SRS and
made available for the required audit as well as to Bank supervision missions.
Project Financial Management
Project accounting.
The PIU will establish a financial management system following the guidelines provided by the
Bank under the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI), including accounting and financial
reporting systems and auditing arrangements adequate to ensure accurate and timely information
regarding project resources and expenditure. In particular, it is expected that the PIU will have:
*    Adequate financial management capacity to properly handle the tasks of disbursement and
accounting required for implementation of the project objectives;
*    Proper monitoring mechanism to report accurately on the status of the expenditure for the
project as a whole, its various components and each expenditure category as represented in the
Loan Agreement, by each funding source; and
*    Adequate capacity to generate auditable financial statements.
Project records and accounting policies will be established and maintained in accordance with
Intemational Accounting Standards (IAS) as issued by the International Accounting Standard Committee
(IASC).
Project Reporting
The PIU will ensure that proper project reports are prepared and submitted to the Bank in a
timely fashion. These include comprehensive quarterly reports covering project financing, implementation
progress (including variance reporting), procurement progress and contract expenditure. The reporting
system will be in compliance with the formats provided by the Bank in theLACI Implementation Manual
(September 1998). These include: project status reports, reflecting: (i) the status of implementation
progress, problems encountered, corrective actions needed, rationale for actions; (ii) the current state of
project indicators (see Appendices G); and (iii) the current costs of each project component and estimated
costs of completion Procuremnent reports, including: (i) semi-annual procurement progress reports, which
describe the progress of procurement activities against the plans set forth in the PIP, variations in
progress, reasons for variations, and remedial actions; (ii) bid evaluation reports, as they arise in the
procurement processes.
Project Audits.
Project accounts, financial statements, the Special Account and Statements of Expenditures will be
audited in accordance with the Guidelines for Financial Reporting and Auditing for Projects Financed by
the World Bank (March 1982) as well as the Financial Accounting Reporting and Auditing Handbook
(January 1995). In particular, International Auditing Standards (ISA) as published by the International
Federation of Accountants (IFAC) will be consistently applied. The Government will provide the Bank
(within six months of the end of each fiscal year), an audit report of such scope and detail as the Bank
may reasonably request, including an opinion by an independent auditor acceptable to the Bank, on
disbursements against certified SOEs. The opinion should mention whether the SOEs submitted during
the fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawal applications.



Page 45
Annex 7
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                          Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
265                   213
....... ..  ....... . .    ..   ......   . . . .... ........   .. .. ....... .. ... ......     .....:     ..
B. Project Schedule
First Bank mission (identification)                                       9/30/1997
Appraisal mission departure                                               9/03/1998
Negotiations                                                              10/19/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                                             1/15/1999
Prepared by: State Revenue Service, Republic of Latvia
Preparation assistance: PHRD (US$ 412,000)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                       Specialty
Mansour Farsad                            Program Team Leader
Jaime Vazquez-Caro                       Tax Administration Specialist
Jit Gill                       Public Sector Management Specialist
Craig Neal                         Information Systems Specialist
Helen Sutch                         Economist (Public Economics)
Gyorgy Lazi                              Operations Specialist
Andrejs Jakobsons                               Economist



Page 46
Annex 8
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments:
1. Return on Investment analysis worksheet.



Page 47
Annex 9
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Statement of Loans and Credits
Amount in millions (USD)
CCY
Loan/             Project                              of                                   Approval    Closing
Credit  Financier    ID           Description       Conmmit  Principal  Undisb.  Disbur.      Date        Date
35250   IBRD       8525    REHABILITATION             USD       45         0       41.9   22-Oct-92   31-Dec-94
26950   IBRD       8527    AGRI. DEV.                 USD       25         0        25     11-Jan-94    31-Dec-97
37950   IBRD       8529    ENTERP. FIN. SECT.         USD       20         6.1      13.9   20-Sep-94   31-Dec-98
37960   IBRD       8529    ENTERP. FIN. SECT          USD       10         5.3       4.7   20-Sep-94   31-Dec-98
37961   IBRD       8529    ENTERP. FIN. SECT         DEM         5         0.6       4.2   20-Sep-94   31-Dec-98
38140   IBRD       8533    LIEPAJA ENVIRON.           USD        4         0.2       3.8   6-Dec-94    31-Mar-00
38900   IBRD       8526    JELGAVA DIST. HEAT         USD       14         3.7      10.3   23-May-95   30-Jun-00
39640   IBRD    34584    MUN. SERVICES DEV.    USD              27.3      13.2      14.1   14-Dec-95   30-Jun-01
41260   IBRD    44123    SAL                          DEM       60         0        51.2   19-Dec-96   30-Jun-98
41450   IBRD       8532    HIGHWAY                    USD       20        15.8       4.2   27-Mar-97   31-Dec-00
41540   IBRD    35807    WELFARE REFORM               DEM       18.1      16.3       0.5   6-May-97    31-Dec-02
42860   IBRD    40553    SOLID WASTE MGMT.    USD                8         8         0     26-Feb-98   30-Jun-03
43800   IBRD    44804    RURAL DEV.                   DEM       10.5      10.3       0     30-Jul-98    30-Jun-01



Page 48
Annex 10
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
Country at a Glance
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Central  middle-
Latvia     Asia  Income       Development diamond
1997
Population. mid-year (millions)                      2.5      476     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                 2,430     2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method US$billions)                       6.0     1.106     2,818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (Y.)                                     -1.3       0.2       1.2
Labor force (%)                                     -1.1       0.5      1.3     GNP       /                     Gross
per             ~             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199197)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)             73        67        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     70        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)             15        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)            .                                   Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                ..        ..       84
Illiteracy (% of populafion age 15+)                                     19
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)  89      92       111          -Lahia
Male                                               91                 116           - Lower-middle-income group
Female                                             86                 113            j-
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1986      1998      1997
Economic ratios
GDP (US$ billions)                           ..       ..       5.1      5.4   1
Gross domestic investmentVGDP                       36.5      18.8     19.7
Exports of goods and services/GDP                             50.9     50.5                    Trade
Gross domestic savingslGDP                          35.9      10.7      9.6
Gross national savings/GDP                    .       ..
Current account balance/GDP                                   -4.2     -5.4     Domestic
Interest paymentslGOP                                          0.3      0.4                                 Investment
Total debtUGDP                                                 9.3       9.4    Savings
Total debt service/exports                                     2.4      4.3
Present value of debVGDP                                       8 6
Present value of debt/exports                                 16.0
Indebtedness
1976-46  1987-97    1996      1997   998-02
(average annual growth)
GDP                                3.6     -.80      2.8       7.1                       L atvia
GNP per capita                     3.0    -7.3       3.5       5.0                  --- Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services              -2.6    27.0       10.8
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and Investment I%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                         20.3       8.9      7.4   !
Industry                                            44.4      31.9     30.7      50
Manufacturing                                     38.9      21.5      21.2      
Services                                            35.4      59.3     61.                  9                     97
Private consumption                                 54.9      67.6     67.2      o100 l
General govemment consumption                        9.3      21.6     23.3                   GDI         *  GDP
Imports of goods and services                                 59.0     60.6
197648  1987i-97      7m         9      Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                 4.9    -9.0       -9.5      3.3    40
Industry                                    3.2   -14.2        3.0      6.1    20
Manufacturing                              3.2   -13.0       3.0       9.4     0
Services                                    3.2    -1.4        5.1       8.2    - -    2       \                   97
Private consumption                         2.1   -10.7        0.3      1.8 
General govemment consumption               5.2      2.8       3.0     14.4
Gross domestic investment                   6.9   -23.9       10.0     41.2       -
Imports of goods and services                 .     -7.3      31.0     14.8             -Exports    0-Imports
Gross national product                      3.6    -8.1        2.4       4.0
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. U data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 49
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     196        1996      1997       Inflation (%)
Domrestic prices
(% change)                                                                             1200 -
Consumer pfices                                  ..        ..       17.6       7.0      soo
Implicit GOP deflator                           0.1      -1.4      17.1        6.0      600/
400
Government finance                                                                      200
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                      0            O
Current revenue                                  ..        ..      36.6       39.9              92   93   94   95   98   97
Current budget balance                            .        ..        0.6       1.6              -     GDP deflator    O  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                          ..        ..       -1.3       1.3
TRADE
(US$ millions)                                 1978     1980       1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                              ..        ..      1,488     1,838     3.o00-
Commodity 1                                                                          2,500 -
Commodity 2                                                                          ZODO                                .
Manufactures                                    .         ..                   .-
Total imports (cif)                                               2,286     2,686      1.5000
Food                                                              171       220      1000,
Fuel and energy                                                                       500                           11 M.
Capital goods                                                     171       277         o.
91   92   03   94   ss  srJ  97
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..        ..       106       108
Import price index (1995=100)                                                                      Exports      r I Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..        ..          .        ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio)
(US$ millions) 
Exports of goods and services                     .        .      2,613     2,890      10,
Imports of goods and services                     ..       ..    3,028      3,350      9 t           . -
Resource balance                                 ..        ..      -414      -460      9  
4,
Net income                                        ..       ..        42        54      2 .       -         r 
Net current transfers                                                                      .         I     iL      T
Current account balance                           ..       ..      -217      -287      -2,91   92   93   94   95!96 1 
.4 .
Financing items (net)                            ..        ..       455       525    .- Ii
Changes in net reserves                           ..       ..      -238      -238      -8
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..
Conversion rate (DEC, locaWUSS)                  ..        ..        0.6       0.6
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1988       1996      1997
(US$ millions)                                                                         Composition of total debt, 1997 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed              0        0        475       503
IBRO                                           0         0         75       120
IDA                                            0         0          0         0                  G65
A: 120
Total debt service                                0        0         65       133
IBRD                                            0        0          4         5
IDA                                             0        0          0         0          F: 79 /
Composition of net resource flows                                                                          /
Official grants                                 0        0         41        ..                                     /
Official creditors                              0        0         40        63    ,           .C:86
Private creditors                              0         0          3        12    ,                              /
Foreign direct investment                      ..       ..         ..                      E: 74
Portfolio equity                               0         0          0         0
D:79
World Bank program
Commitments                                     0        0         87        98     A- IBRD                        E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0         0         24        53     B - IDA    D - Other multilaterat   F - Private
Prncipal repayments                            0         0          0         0     C - IMF                        G - Short-term
Net fiows                                      0         0         24        53
Interest payments                              0         0          4         5
Net transfers                                  0         0         20        48
Development Economics                                                                                                    10/28/98



Page 50
Annex 11
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
State Revenue Service Modernization Project
Latvian Taxes
A summary of the main features
(as of end October 1998)
Tax        Definition of Taxpayer        Tax base                 Tax rates
VAT           A person whose taxable   Supply and importation    18% on taxable
transactions exceed Ls.    of goods and services  transactions;
10,000 p.a.           __0/O on exports
Exemptions: Services of nursing homes; education fees library services; cinemas, museums, etc.;
sporting and cultural events; medical supplies and services; lotteries and gambling; funeral and
religious services; payments by residents for rent, heating, water, sewerage and garbage services;
scientific investigations; financial and insurance services; mass media; certain Latvian art and
literature; mutual services to members of cooperatives; sale of real estate; fire safety devices; postal
services.
Enterprise    Enterprises engaged in    Taxable income, as     25% of taxable income
income tax    business, including non-   determined from the   Also withholding taxes on
resident enterprises and    annual profit and loss  payments made to non-
their permanent         account. Residents are   residents:-
establishments          taxed on global income    5% on rent for use of
property located in Latvia;
10% on dividends paid,
interest paid to related
persons, fees for
management and
consulting services, profit
on sale of securities;
15% on royalty payments;
25% on sale of real estate
Exemptions: State owned enterprises, state budget institutions and local government institutions
whose income goes into special state and local govt. budgets; non-profit organizations; enterprises
using prisoner labor, approved charities. There is tax relief of 20% of the calculated tax for small
enterprises, and tax relief of Ls. 10 per hectare for agricultural enterprises.
Personal      Resident physical persons  Annual taxable income,   25% of taxable income
income tax    aged 15 years and older   after deductions for
who gain income in      annual non-taxable
Latvia or abroad; non-  minimum allowance,
residents who gain      dependents allowances,
income in Latvia.       and allowable expenses
(social tax paid, pension
fund payments, education
expenses, medical
expenses, donations to
charities)



Page 51
Exemptions: Income from agricultural production if less than Ls. 3000 per year; dividends and
interest; insurance payments; prizes; most welfare benefits; education scholarships; inheritances; child
support; divorce settlements; workers compensation; blood donations; subsidies paid to agricultural
producers.
Social        Resident physical persons  Annual taxable income    Insurance for:
insurance      aged 15 years and older                         Pension - 27.37%
contributions  who gain income in                              Unemployment - 3.1%
Latvia or abroad; non-                          Workers compensation -
residents who gain                              0.09%
income in Latvia.                               Disability - 5.94%
Matemity & sickness -
0.59%
Total rate 37.09%, of
which employee pays 9%,
employer pays 28.09%
Special rules for self
employed, pensioners and
foreigners.
Exemptions: as for Personal Income Tax
Excise tax    Persons who sell, produce  Alcohol and alcoholic  Ls. 4.10 per liter of
or import goods subject to  drinks              absolute alcohol
excise                  Champagne and wines    Ls. 0.25 per liter
Beer
Cigarettes              Ls. 4.00 per hectoliter
Cigarettes without filters  Ls. 4.00 per 1000
Cigars                  Ls. 5.00 per 1000
Other tobacco products
Gold and other precious   Ls. 10.00 per 1000
metals                  100% of value
Automobiles
Lead-free petrol        30% of value
Leaded petrol
Diesel                  10% of value
Fuel oil                Ls. 140 per 1000 liters
Gas, except natural gas    Ls. 160 per 1000 liters
Ls. 100 per 1000 liters
Ls. 2 per 1000 liters
Ls. 10 per 1000 liters
Exemptions: alcohol for medical, veterinary, scientific needs and for pharmaceutical production; low
alcohol beer (below 5.5%); tobacco dust used for insecticides; precious metals used in dentistry;
precious metals and precious stones imported by the precious metal fund of the Republic of Latvia;
cars with petrol engines below 1600 cc and diesel engines below 1900 cc; cars more than 7 years old;
cars with electric motors, pick-up and flat-bed trucks; for farmers - 120 liters of diesel per year for
each hectare of land used for farming.



MAP SECTION



____________D____I_____*_____*_                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD  29969
',,  _ At4FND    _  :       tMMo  'F   LV  -24f                                                                             I       )2e
~~ : _           5 RfEST AN    :d, n  .OeIANOrD- CE                                                                                                To MI   '',1r ele   E
*>RFgo ? st. . ; :: ggyff To LeDe y ,: < s ft o s I I'f 20 2f 30K onelers~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        0   1 05 2 25 0 K...
/. ~ ~~-    FE Ll;ooo  S,.DR/ 5'                        /                                                          5 ;*~  CSt  rW                  R                            aTrC                                                 0 If2  re
SWgG                                                                                                                                                                                                 I TLOIC5  2 SJS
N                    /a                             _Dier~ 9DTDFIR                                                                                                                                          V AT
_AS                                                                                                                                                     LM j  oE R A
s*,E                          w                              VALM1
20~~ ,_tI~_  z\t>X fts      j  .  .
G    u  I f                                                                               NE.,~~~~~~~-                RUSSIAN
A6-Esne S                FEDERATION
ra~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Jbn                               * BOIDI             To DIAD
/Liopi  DI T    ITAP I A P AATOUDRE /                            ---ouavi  rcr      'L    VA
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LR
    NATIONAL CAPITAL        -       DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                                               ,                                                     \      rPoas
TA  U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AT DAI
)                        --  ~~~~~~RIVERS               -  .-  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                      .     .
r  -    RAILROADS                                                                                                    Ta Utena       ,/LBBE A                                  U
21"      |                                                                                            24                                                                            Ta Vlimus    +          27                                   NOVEM6eR IQ9T



