                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                              Report No: 30736-LV

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                  (TF-25293 SCL-44160)

                                          ON A

                                         LOAN

                     IN THE AMOUNT OF $5.05 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                 TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                        LATVIA

                                         FOR A

                  STATE REVENUE SERVICE MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                    December 28, 2004




Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

               CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

          (Exchange Rate Effective December 14, 04)

                Currency Unit = Lat (LV)
                         1 LV = US$ 1.7
                        US$ 1 = LV 0.56

                      FISCAL YEAR
                 January 1    December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ASYCUDA    -      Automated System for Customs Data
CAS        -      Country Assistance Strategy
CIS        -      Customs Information Systems
CIT        -      Corporate Income Tax
CMIS       -      Custom Information System
CY         -      Calendar Year
DEM        -      German Mark
EU         -      European Union
FPB        -      Finance Police Board
GDP        -      Gross Domestic Product
ICR        -      Implementation Completion Report
IMF        -      International Monetary Fund
IRR        -      Internal Rate of Return
IT         -      Information Technology
LAN        -      Local Area Network
MOF        -      Ministry of Finance
NPV        -      Net Present Value
OECD       -      Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PAD        -      Project Appraisal Document
PIT        -      Personal Income Tax
PIU        -      Project Implementation Unit
QAE        -      Quality at Entry
QAG        -      Quality Assurance Group
SOE        -      Statement of Expenditures
SRS        -      State Revenue Service
TA         -      Technical Assistance
TIS        -      Tax Information System
VIES       -      VAT Information Exchange Systems
VAT        -      Value Added Tax



               Vice President:     Shigeo Katsu
             Country Director      Roger W. Grawe
              Sector Manager       Deborah Wetzel
               Task Manager:       Mansour Farsad

                                           LATVIA
                        State Revenue Service Modernization Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       22
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             24
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             29
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             30
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             32
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                33
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            34

Project ID: P055585                                                  Project Name: State Revenue Service
Team Leader: Mansour Farsad                                          TL Unit: ECSPE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 4, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: State Revenue Service                                    L/C/TF Number: TF-25293; SCL-44160
   Country/Department: LATVIA                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (90%); Law and justice (10%)
                  Theme: Tax policy and administration (P); Law reform (P); Other
                            accountability/anti-corruption (P); Other financial and private sector
                            development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/24/1998                                     Effective: 01/15/1999                04/13/1999
     Appraisal: 09/03/1998                                         MTR:
      Approval: 12/03/1998                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          MINISTRY OF FINANCE/STATE REVENUE SERVICES
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               Roger W. Grawe                                 Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Cheryl W. Gray                                 Pradeep K. Mitra
Team Leader at ICR:             Mansour Farsad                                 Mansour Farsad
ICR Primary Author:


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: HS                               HS
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Context

Following its independence in 1991, Latvia was left with an inefficient and unstable economic structure,
dependent on FSU markets and unable to compete in world markets. Latvia successfully implemented a
vigorous stabilization program, supported by the Bank and the IMF, which reduced macroeconomic
imbalances and permitted Latvia to curb the rising rate of inflation and to accumulate substantial foreign
exchange reserves. By the mid-1990s, Latvia had made significant progress toward macroeconomic
stabilization and growth of the private sector. However, rising claims on public expenditures and increasing
tax and energy arrears led to a shortfall in revenues and to a severe deterioration in fiscal deficit. It became
evident that the deficit could not be contained by short-term measures aimed at ad hoc expenditure
reductions. Fundamental reforms of the public administration and fiscal management were needed to
ensure a sustainable fiscal balance and the restoration of growth in the economy.

Latvia faced two immediate challenges. First, as the private sector expanded, the tax base needed to be
widened to lower the tax burden on actual taxpayers and to reduce tax avoidance. Second, there was a
need to reduce the cost of compliance and increase the uniformity of revenue administration. In short,
revenue administration needed the organizational and administrative arrangement that matched Latvia's
success in its transition to a market economy.

Whereas tax and customs administrations were combined in the State Revenue Service (SRS) in November
1993, the organizational structures were disjointed, and its administrative arrangements and operational
systems embodied a large measure of temporary and interim solutions. SRS had no uniform organizational
structure. Besides its headquarters, the SRS had 7 local offices in Riga, 27 offices outside Riga, and 60
Customs border posts. Each of these units had a wide range of staff (from 28 to 334), with generally high
administration overhead (12-44 percent). There was little coordination with the headquarters or each other.


Against this background, the Government launched a broad-based modernization program to reform
revenue administration. In 1998, the Government requested the Bank's support for a comprehensive SRS
Modernization Project (the project), addressing organizational, management and operational aspects of the
administration of taxes, social insurance collections, and customs.

Objectives

The project had two main objectives:

    (a) A revenue system that promotes sustainable revenue performance on the basis of voluntary
         compliance, reducing corruption and evasion, and facilitates private sector development by
         lowering compliance costs and tax rates.

    (b) A State Revenue Service (SRS) that efficiently, equitably and honestly administers tax and
         customs laws and is equipped with modern business processes, management systems, and
         operational tools.




                                                     - 2 -

Assessment

The project objectives were realistic, timely, and relevant to the circumstances of Latvia at the time of the
project design and remain so today. They were consistent with the development priorities of the country and
the reform program of the Government in the area of fiscal management. These priorities had been
identified by the Government and reflected in the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The CAS
had emphasized revenue mobilization and fiscal consolidation among top priorities to ensure economic
stabilization and a sustainable fiscal balance. Meeting these objectives required setting up institutions,
systems, and procedures necessary to enhance the capacity to raise revenues, and hence to reduce the
deteriorating fiscal imbalances.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives of the project were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The specific project objectives are contained in two closely inter-related components.

·        Organization and Management Component -- to improve the overall organizational effectiveness
of the SRS.
·        Operational Component -- to improve the performance of the SRS in critical areas of tax, customs
and social insurance collection administration.

Assessment

The project addressed a full range of operational as well as management and organizational issues. This
was done in an integrated fashion and in the face of the natural inclination of the revenue agency to focus
on day-to-day operational concerns, especially upgrading its operational information systems.

The design of both components was clearly linked to the objectives described above. The project aimed at
strengthening the long-term organizational effectiveness and efficiency of the SRS to ensure stable and
predictable revenue flows. This was done through a three-pronged approach: (a) increasing integration of
the basic business lines of the SRS; (b) strengthening management capacity in a wide range of areas (e.g.,
personnel, financial management, operational policy formulation); and (c) improving the human resources
strategy and incentive structure.

Whereas the majority of the project costs were in the Operations Component (automation), the SRS used
Bank finance to concentrate on the Organization and Management Component, as the more challenging and
unfamiliar aspects of the reforms were focused there. The range of reforms undertaken was extensive,
involving fundamental changes in the business processes and in the organization and structure of tax and
customs administration.

By modernizing SRS's operational capacity (including business process re-engineering and a
major overhaul of the SRS's tax and customs information systems), the project sought to reduce
tax evasion and raise compliance rates. This was complemented by rationalizing local office
structures, strengthening enforcement and audit capabilities, raising quality of client services, as
well as support for strengthening taxpayer rights through upgraded appeals and grievance
resolution mechanisms. All these activities were critical to increase operational efficiency, simplify


                                                      - 3 -

the tax system, reduce compliance cost, and increase revenue collection.

3.4 Revised Components:

The original components and subcomponents remained unchanged.

During the project implementation, the Government proposed that part of the funds from the unallocated
category under the project be used for the procurement of SESAM software for use with the auditors'
workstation. This software, which is mostly used in the EU member countries, enabled auditors to directly
use the accounting data, which were submitted electronically by the taxpayers, into audit reports and thus
improved the efficiency of auditing. This change was mainly a reallocation and the original objectives and
components remained the same.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

A QAG assessment carried out in March, 1999, rated Quality at Entry as Best Practice. (Quality
Assurance Group "Latvia State Revenue Service Modernization Project: Quality at Entry (QAE)
Assessment, March,22, 1999). This rating was based on the consistency of the objectives with country
priorities and fiscal needs, and project design, which gave prominence to organizational management
aspects of the project and created ownership at the preparation and implementation levels. The Assessment
also rated highly: (i) institutional development integrated with the project design to support the initial
Government request which was for information technology investment, and this added real value to Bank
participation; (ii) good policy advice (e.g. the objectives of a revenue policy) passed on successfully during
project preparation; (iii) economic analysis (cost recovery rather than cost benefit), identification and
mitigation of critical risks, the definition of sustainability, the alternatives considered and dropped; and, (iv)
excellent documentation.

The ICR finds the quality at entry to be highly satisfactory. As mentioned, the project was consistent with
the CAS and was designed within the competencies of the SRS. The project design had a strong focus on
institutional reforms as well as strengthening and maintaining an appropriate balance between institutional
needs and information technology needs. It included key institutional issues with a strong emphasis on
consolidation of functions and improving efficiency of the SRS operations.

Project preparation started on a sound footing, with a strong Government ownership:

·        The Government had full involvement in the project preparation. The project initiative, and a
well-elaborated initial project plan, came from the Government, driven by the need for fiscal consolidation
and prospects for EU accession.

·        The Government's funding request to the Bank was for only $5 million of the $45 million project
costs, reflecting its commitment and its assessment of the Bank's role as an advisor to ensure a modern and
efficient revenue administration. The Government also asked the Bank to coordinate and ensure
multiple foreign assistance initiatives were complementary.

·        Project preparation was based on broadening sector knowledge. In addition to considerable work
done by other donors, in particular EU, Bank's own work subsequent to the loan request included a
corruption vulnerability analysis, a diagnostic analysis of institutional needs, and a questionnaire to
measure performance and institutional development.



                                                        - 4 -

The Government helped minimize the project risks in several ways. First, the project limited the
modernization program in two pilot Regional Offices of Zemgale and Latgale, before extending it
countywide. These two regions accounted for about 11 percent of total tax revenues in 1999. Second, the
introduction of taxpayer surveys helped proceed cautiously in the direction of the reforms. Third, the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU), being part of the organizational structure of the SRS itself, became a
key institution in coordinating different aspects of the project planning and implementation.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

The achievements of objectives and results were satisfactory, as the project achieved practically all its
objectives in both components.

The project significantly advanced reform and unification of tax, social insurance collections and customs
administration. These included: (i) implementation of a new organizational structure and processing
standards, (ii) development of software and the purchase of appropriate hardware for automation of tax
processing, (iii) provision of a wide range of services to taxpayers, and (iv) training and upgrading staff
skills.

Apart from the overarching goal of EU accession and meeting EU standards in tax and customs
administration, an important factor that contributed to the success of the project was that the reorganization
work combined with changes in business processes, were done in two pilot offices of the SRS, before
applying them to the other organizational units and regions.

The project improved the transparency of revenue administration and reduced its vulnerability to
corruption. This was done by: (i) reducing the over reliance in face to face interaction of taxpayers with the
SRS staff, and thus reducing the opportunities for corrupt practices; and, (ii) establishing internal Vigilance
Units, under the responsibility of each of the directors of the 6 regional offices, to ensure that SRS
personnel carry out business in accordance with a proper code of conduct. In addition, a new human
resource strategy was adopted to improve training and efficiency of personnel while motivating them
through higher pay scale.

The project also strengthened the SRS capacity to perform its responsibilities to monitor the income and
assets declared by public officials, which was bestowed upon the SRS through a legally mandated
provision.

Implementation of the project has led to significant results. These included: increase in revenues from 30.2
percent of GDP in 1998 to 31.5 percent of GDP in 2003; reduction in tax arrears from 4.7 percent of
consolidated budget revenues in 2000 to 2.4 percent in 2003; reduction in the social security contribution
rate from 37 percent in 1998 to 33 percent in 2003. In addition, tax audits and recovery of tax debt have
increased significantly (for further details on these and other indicators see Section 10 and Annex 1 below).

The project was largely completed in accordance with the original schedule. However, the Loan was
extended by one year to allow for the acquisition and testing of the Audit Support Information System. The
delay for this acquisition was largely a result of EU-PHARE grant financing for the audit system
requirements specification (and the protracted realization of this funding).

The one area where the project achieved somewhat less than the targeted outcomes was in the extent of the



                                                      - 5 -

integration of tax and customs. At the preparation stage, the SRS management was steadfastly pursuing the
objective of full integration of tax and customs operations under one line management. During project
implementation, this objective was achieved at regional offices where all common functions were
integrated. In Riga, however, while procedures on common support functions, such as budgeting,
personnel management, and training, were unified, there were still separate Tax and Customs structures
under different line management.

This was due, in part, to the large size of the operations in Riga, which accounted for about half of the SRS
operations and about 30 percent of its employees. This is about 4 times the average size of the SRS
operations in each of the other regional offices. Consolidating and managing such a large scale operation
under the same line management (as has been done in all other regions) has been a major challenge for Riga
and has prompted the SRS officials to act more cautiously in this direction. Also, there has been a sort of
functional and cultural divide between Tax and Customs particularly in Riga, which could not be forced
closed.


4.2 Outputs by components:

Organization and Management Component ­ $5.39 million ($6.02 including current costs)

This component is rated satisfactory. The project successfully managed to strengthen the organization and
management of the SRS under the following subcomponents:

a. Rationalization of Organizational Structure - $2.40 million (investment costs). Mostly achieved. The
project supported the reorganization of the SRS. The small offices were consolidated and the organizational
structures became more unified. The new organizational structure was successfully implemented in two
pilot offices of Zemgale and Latgale Regions before extending it throughout the country. The structure of
the SRS now consists of 6 regional offices compared with 34 local offices before. The regional offices
include: Zemgale (including 6 local offices); Latgale (6 local offices); Vidzeme (7 local offices); Kurzeme
(5 local offices); Riga (9 local offices) and, Riga Customs regional office. Modern client service halls were
created in local offices to serve taxpayers. Standard Regulations for the SRS regional offices and their
structural units have been prepared, as well as manuals on work procedures.

Within the Tax Administration the following units were established: Central Information Exchange
Division; International Transaction Division; Appeals Division; Internal Audit Department and
Administrative Practice Division; and, Communications Division. Within the Customs structural changes
included: establishing: Intellectual Property Rights Protection Division; EU Integrated Tariff Project
Division; and Customs Criminal Board (to deal with smuggling). Also, Customs IT Division was merged
within the Tax IT Department and this Department is now responsible for the IT system management and
maintenance within the SRS. All the SRS regional offices, with the exception of Riga, have a unified
structure. The reorganization of the SRS has resulted in reduction of red tape and improved coordination
among the various units.

b. Strategic planning, budgeting, and financial management - $0.82 million (investment costs). Fully
achieved. Achievements under this sub-component included: preparation of Tax and Customs
Administration Strategies for 2001-2005; adoption of economic classification for the budget; development
of budget methodology; and training of 50 staff in these areas. Some key items of the Strategy include:
establishing a competent tax administration irrespective of political consideration and capable of providing
services to the taxpayers within a unified system; making changes in the laws and regulations to encourage
more voluntary compliance; and, improving customs procedures to facilitate trade. The SRS's financial



                                                      - 6 -

management information system was unified. The SRS also developed Centralized Data Warehouse
System to support analysis and decision- making. This system is now used by SRS Central Offices, SRS
regional offices, Ministry of Finance and other institutions.

Seventy seven high and middle level SRS managers undertook training courses in ILO, Turin, Civil Service
College (UK) and different West European countries and USA on various aspects of tax administration,
project management and appraisal, change management, quality management, financial planning and
budgeting, and performance evaluation. Twenty SRS officials participated in 22 different international
conferences organized by CIAT, IOTA, OECD, EU FISCALIS, WCO, Central and Eastern Europe Tax
Administration to familiarize themselves with different aspects of tax administration. Fourteen exchange of
visits for 51 SRS officials were also arranged with Ireland, the Netherlands, Denmark, Finland, Sweden,
UK, USA, Canada, Germany, and Russia.

c. Operational management- $0.41 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. Amendments to the laws,
regulations and instructions have been made in order to make Latvian tax and customs legislation
compatible with the EU requirements. These include changes in the: Law On Value Added Tax; Law On
Taxes and Fees; Law On the State Revenue Service; Law On Excise Duties; Customs Law; and Law On
Natural Resources Tax.

The legislation harmonization has been complemented by the preparations of several handbooks including:
Thematic Inspection Handbook (May 2002); Tax Audit Handbook (December 2002); VAT Administration
Handbook (August 2003); Excise Tax Administration Handbook (November 2003); and a Handbook for
Auditing International Transactions. In addition, unified reference forms containing information about
taxpayers have been developed. Improvements were also made in the business processes, including
establishing monitorable results and operation performance analysis.

To prevent Latvia from becoming a tax haven in the EU, the Latvian tax legislation and tax administration
procedures have been harmonized with the EU. However, given the fact that Latvia accessed to EU only
recently (May 1, 2004), more changes are expected in the near future. To further facilitate harmonization
of tax legislation with the EU, the SRS has implemented the EU VAT Information Exchange (VIES) for
cross checking of international transactions and merchant registration. Furthermore, Latvian VAT
information system and Excise Duty information system have been integrated into EU information systems
since the first half of 2004 and appropriate amendments to the Law on VAT and Law on Excise Duty have
been made. Training has been provided to the SRS staff to become familiar with EU procedures and
standards. These included both on-the-job training and training courses on Introduction to EU VAT, EU
Direct Corporate Taxation, Transfer Prices, Evasion of Double Taxation, TARIC System Implementation
and Maintenance, and Interpretation and Application of Tax Treaties. In the framework of the PHARE
program, twinning arrangements were made to familiarize the SRS staff to combat tax fraud in September
2002. Twinning arrangements were also made with Danish Tax and Custom Administration in September
2003. Training was provided to 93 SRS managers and high-level officials as well as 43 SRS specialists.

d. Personnel Management - $0.60 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. In the area of personnel
management the project met all its objectives. The Personnel Management and Development Manual,
which contains information on SRS personnel policy and staff functions, was prepared and published on its
web site. Procedures for recruitment, promotion, rotation, and discipline of staff were developed. Work
performance evaluation and procedures have been developed. A payment and bonus system, based on
responsibility and position of staff, and consistent with State Civil Service Administration, was developed
in all SRS regional offices (including Riga). As a result of the salary alignment and other adjustments, the
compensation of the SRS employees has gone up by more than 77 percent between 1998 and 2003.


                                                     - 7 -

Payments for some positions, however, remain less than those in the private sector (e.g., for IT specialists).
Criteria have been established on evaluation and promotion of staff and on those who qualify to receive
bonuses. The personnel department was merged with the training division and the new Personnel
Management Department was established in October 2003. A Training Strategy for 2002 ­ 2007 was
developed. Training Centers, with improved training programs, were also established in all regional offices
of SRS.

e. Internal controls and prevention of corruption - $0.41 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. The
objectives under this sub-component were substantially met. An internal Audit Division was created in
1999. An internal audit strategy was developed and training courses were arranged to train the internal
audit personnel. The training program was designed to make the staff familiar with performance audit
techniques and improve their overall skills in this area. An information system audit program was also
established, including IT Audit guidelines. The systems audit covers the Taxpayer registration system; Tax
information system; ASYCUDA; Customs Information System; - Informix; - IT Management System. IT
Security Policy has also been put in place, which covers all SRS IT related systems.

Vigilance Units, under the direct responsibility of each regional office director, were established to monitor
and investigate conduct of the SRS staff. In addition, guidelines for managers for dealing with corruption
cases were prepared. This included; Corruption Prevention Manual for the Customs Officials; Code of
Ethics; and guidelines for managers for investigating a probable corruption case and for reducing
corruption opportunities. Some of these items were published in the SRS web site. The Corruption
Prevention Law was replaced with the law on Preventing Conflict of Interest in Activities of State Officials
which came into force on May 10, 2002. In accordance with this law, SRS has a responsibility to check
whether state officials' have submitted their declarations and the required information on time. The SRS
also provided training to its staff on corruption prevention. Within the EU-PHARE program 8 SRS
officials were trained as trainers in the corruption prevention and organized seminars to the officials from
the SRS, State Audit, Police, the State Chancellery, and the Sanitary Border Inspection.

To minimize direct contact with taxpayers the collection, processing, and audit of returns have been
separated from other services to taxpayers. Fifty five client service halls have been established in all local
offices and regions providing information and other services on declaration forms for tax returns. Customs
clearance centers were also established in all regional offices ­ the result is that customs officials are not
located in warehouses and documentary control is being separated from physical control. For Riga 5
unified Customs Control facilities are envisaged, 2 of them have already been established. Also, a system
of rotation is being applied for positions of high risk.

Numerous other operational reforms also strengthen internal controls and limit opportunities for corrupt
practices. The implementation of unified and integrated tax and customs information systems facilitate
cross checking and monitoring of taxpayers and SRS officer. Computerized, risk-based tax selection and
customs inspection limits staff discretion and provide revenue norms to compare audit results to. Schemes
have also been developed to unify Customs control facilities.

f. External and internal relations - $0.12 million (investment costs).Fully achieved. The SRS has
designed public relation campaigns aimed at taxpayers, importers, brokers, and warehouse operators to
improve its image. In close cooperation with Marketing and Public Opinion Research Centre, 14 studies
were prepared during 2000-2004 on evaluation of SRS operations and the SRS image. During 2000-2003,
three surveys of taxpayers in all regional offices were performed, focusing on taxpayers' satisfaction with
the quality of services. SRS has also developed a number of radio and TV broadcast programs, including
animated cartoons, to familiarize taxpayers with its operations. It has also issued a number of booklets (e.g.


                                                      - 8 -

Tax ABC, What is Tax Audit) and has hosted several conferences on various aspects of tax and customs
administration. A Communications Division was established and the internal website was created.

g. Management information system- $0.63 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. The SRS has
developed a Centralized Data Warehouse System, which serves as the management information system
(MIS) to bring together all necessary information on management functions and operational activities. Data
for the MIS is gathered electronically from the Tax Information System, Central Customs Information
System, Financial Police, and State officials' declaration information system. Data are gathered also from
registers of other state institutions. The main users of the MIS are SRS top management, National Tax
Board, Customs Board, and Analysis Division in all local offices.

Operational Component - $29.77 million ($38.77 million including recurrent costs)

This component is rated satisfactory and the project successfully achieved its objectives through the
following subcomponents:

a. Taxpayer registration - $2.98 million (investment costs).Fully achieved. A unified registration process
was established in the SRS and in the Latvian Enterprise Register in January 2001. This system is being
expanded to cover Customs information, Taxpayers registration information, as well as information on Tax
recording, Tax accounting, Personal income tax, and audit information system. Collaboration with other
state registers on information exchange about taxpayers has started. Currently, the Tax Information System
receives data from Register of Enterprises, The Office of Citizenship and Migration Affairs, State
Treasury, Bank of Latvia, State Land Service, and State Social Insurance Agency.

b. Tax declaration, collection, and reduction in arrears - $3.36 million (investment costs). Fully
achieved. A new declaration processing system, including unification of income tax and social insurance
tax declarations, has been established. Together with the consolidated taxpayer accounting and payments
recording, the declaration process constitutes an integrated Tax Information System (TIS). This system
includes an electronic declaration system. Data from State Treasury on taxpayer payments are imported
into TIS on daily basis. As mentioned, several handbooks were prepared and distributed to all SRS
employees to unify tax collection procedures. In addition, Case Registration Information System has been
set up for use by all the SRS employees. Close collaboration has been made between the SRS and the State
Committee for Statistics and the Enterprise Registry to better identify non-filers. Data base has also been
developed for the Administrative Practice Division to record precedent setting cases on important issues on
tax and customs. As a result of these measures revenue collection has increased by more than 42 percent
between 1998 and 2003. Tax arrears recovery also has improved considerably and the amount of tax
arrears collected increased by 164 percent between 1998 and 2003.

To assess compliance costs on taxpayers and to improve tax collection, a survey on compliance costs was
undertaken during the first year of the project. However, it was discontinued after its initial round as the
process was expensive, time consuming, and only 40 percent of taxpayers who received the questionnaire
responded. Nevertheless, the survey pointed out important cost factors for the taxpayers ( e.g., time spent in
lines; filing complicated forms; hiring consultants to fill forms, lack of access to tax information, overhead
costs). As mentioned, these guided the SRS in establishing 55 client halls and improving taxpayer services
to reduce compliance costs. Establishment of the client halls, together with the increase in the number tax
advisors (from 74 in 2000 to 92 in 2003) and the frequency of consultation provided to the taxpayers on
declaration forms for tax returns, contributed to the increase in revenue collection and the reduction in
arrears noted above.




                                                      - 9 -

c. Audit and investigation- $2.79 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. The SRS strengthened its
capacity to analyze compliance patterns and to develop criteria for an audit case selection. For this purpose
the SRS reformed the structure of its Audit Division. Audit Manual and Theme Examination Manual have
been prepared. Also, guidelines for tax auditors have been developed. In addition, the audit of the social
insurance tax has been integrated with the income tax. These has led to improvements in the efficiency of
tax audit as the amount of arrears collected per audit increased by almost 4 times from Ls 35 million per
audit in 1998 to Ls 133 million per audit in 2003.The Tax Audit Division, under the responsibility of the
Deputy Director of the National Tax Board, was created in 1999. To establish a full-cycle audit system,
including tools for audit evaluation, a computerized accounting audit program, SESAM, has been adopted.
In addition, to develop data management and data analysis tools for tax audit, and for risk analyses the
ESKORT system has been set up, which work on Data Warehouses and Internal and External data. Thirty
three seminars for auditors have been held on the tax control issues, including an extensive training by
IBFD on audit and transfer pricing.

In 2002 further organizational changes were introduced to strengthen coordination and control of the
National Tax Board. Information flow among SRS regional offices and headquarters has increased
considerably and has improved the efficiency of the SRS investigation. In 1998 only 95 cases were
forwarded for judicial proceedings. This figure increased to 790 in 2003. Information flow is organized in
three levels of communication: (i) between tax control managers in the headquarters and the regional
offices; (ii) within regional offices; and, (iii) between regional offices and their relevant local offices. To
strengthen capacity to investigate serious cases of tax evasion and smuggling, the structure of the Finance
Police Board (FPB) has been revised and the exchange of information between FPB, regional offices and
the National Tax Board has improved. Various agreements have been concluded with government
institutions to coordinate efforts in tax evasion, particularly in the case of fictitious enterprises.
Amendments have been made to the laws On State Revenue and Criminal Law to strengthen enforcement
and tax default. Instructions have been issued on how to draw up and submit documentation to the FPB to
initiate a criminal case. Four specially equipped vehicles were purchased for FPB. Since 1999, the FPB
has initiated 2385 criminal cases.

d. Customs operations - $3.54 million (investment costs). Mostly Achieved. The SRS has made a wide
range of capacity strengthening efforts in the areas of trade facilitation, imports valuation, physical
inspection of goods, warehousing, detection of smuggling activities and the confiscation and disposal of
contraband. Improved equipment are also used in customs control facilities. On January 1, 2001 agreement
was reached on joint transit procedures for the Baltic States. Customs Criminal Department was
established in June 2002, which deals with smuggling.

To establish an integrated information system, the Customs Information System (CMIS) was established
and integrated with ASYCUDA. Customs has implemented several measures to improve its performance
for further integration into the European Union. These measures were mainly oriented towards ensuring the
inter-operability of several systems, including the New Computerized Transit System (NCTS) and
Integrated Customs Tariff (TARIC). The NCTS, which is used to monitor the transit of goods through the
country has become partly operational, and the Customs is in the process of making it fully operational.
The implementation of the TARIC system, which allows access to online tariff information from Brussels
has progressed rapidly. The latest versions of ASYCUDA (integrated with CMIS and TARIC system) have
been installed in all customs control facilities in December 2003. Electronic submission of declarations has
been made possible in all customs control facilities.

To strengthen anti-smuggling operations surveillance equipment for customs have been procured, including
equipment for audio information control; digital video cameras, digital cameras, and video recorders. Also,


                                                       - 10 -

9 specially equipped motor vehicles have been procured to support anti-smuggling and corruption
prevention activities. In Yerchova, Customs Control Facility mobile scanners have been procured. In
addition under the PHARE program additional equipments have been acquired, including (i) a full set of
laboratory equipment in Customs; (ii) 3 mobile laboratories with all necessary equipment;(iii) mobile
devices (endoscopes, metal detectors, fuel pumps). Since EU accession Customs has focused more on the
control of goods and the number of mobile customs control units has increased considerably.

To improve infrastructure at border crossing points Silene Customs Control Facility and Sanitary Border
Inspection's buildings have been put in place in the border control facilities of Terehova, Paternieki, and
Grebneva. Similar infrastructures were developed in Riga and Ventspils Free ports, Daugavpils and
Rezekne. In the main Customs Control facilities client service halls have been established. The number of
customs staff in Vidzeme, Zemgale and Kurzeme regional offices decreased by 325 staffs. These were then
transferred to tax administration.

To protect intellectual property rights, the SRS established the Intellectual Property Rights Protection
Division in September 1999. In cooperation with International Economic Relations and Customs Institute
of Riga Technical Institute a training program for customs staff on protection of intellectual property was
worked out and more than 100 employees were trained.

The use of tax identification numbers has become widespread in customs operations and appeals systems
have been strengthened. Control of temporary imports is done on the basis of EU Regulation (No 2454/92)
and Istanbul Convention on Temporary Imports. Regulations have been prepared for every Customs
Control Facility to process customs clearance. Such a scheme has reduced the possibilities of corruption
and mistakes.

Implementation of these measures have contributed to the reduction in time shipments spend in Customs by
almost two-thirds, from an average of 40-50 minutes in 1998 to an average of 10-15 minutes in 2004
(except in cases where the risk analysis indicate careful control of the shipment). This reduction in time has
been mainly the result of: (i) introduction of ASYCUDA and rsik assessment, which has focused the
attention of Customs officials mainly on suspicious traders; (ii) possibilities for submiting declaration
forms electronically in all customs control facilities; (iii) and, granting special status to those traders who
have fulfilled their obligations in good faith and have a good record in Customs.

e. Adjudication and appeal- $0.16 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. The SRS Appeals Divisions
were created in each of the 6 regional offices during 2000-2002. Since then amendments to the laws On
Taxes and Fees and regulations in connection with appeal system have been made and a tax dispute
resolution has been prepared. Seminars for SRS regional offices' specialists have been provided in matters
related to taxpayer complaint and disputes. The number of appeals processed increased from 394 in 2000
to 1,193 in 2004.

f. Taxpayer and customs client services- $0.30 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. The SRS has
carried out a survey of taxpayers in order to improve taxpayer services and to get feedback into internal
performance monitoring. The survey, which was carried out in all regional offices, focused on taxpayers'
satisfaction with the SRS services. The results showed that most taxpayers had become satisfied with the
SRS and found the establishment of the client halls a positive move. To train staff in taxpayer assistance
and to develop strategies to enhance taxpayers' education, the SRS has undertaken a number of activities
including: training programs for the staff, developing common taxpayer education standards, identifying
and evaluating risks, consultation with taxpayers, and preparing informative materials for clients, including
informative booklets on tax audit issues. Also, to inform and update the public on various aspects of taxes,


                                                     - 11 -

the SRS has published regularly articles on tax administration issues in special journals, local newspapers,
and the internet.

The SRS has established new procedures for receiving and processing declaration forms. Special deposit
boxes for taxpayer declarations, and inquiries have been placed in the ground floor of each of the tax
offices. Declarations and forms can be submitted to SRS in several ways: through the client service halls;
electronic declaration; or by mail. Electronic declaration system allows taxpayers to submit 50 types of
documents electronically through the internet. Processing of declarations and forms is fully integrated in the
Tax Information System. The SRS internet home page, which was designed in February 2000, is regularly
updated with information on registration and taxpayers. However, the SRS has not yet been able to
implement automated voice-based and fax-based information dissemination due to frequent changes in
legislation.

g. Common IT information development- $16.64 million (investment costs). Fully achieved. To develop
the underlying technology platform for SRS's business function, the SRS is implementing the development
of a data transmission network project, which contains switching over to optical fibre channels, increasing
data transmission speed, and the expansion of local telephone networks. The IT Department employees
have had various training courses on new technologies and IT systems in the EU, including: Informix Data
Server Database Administration (3 employees); Tivoli Enterprise Console Training (2 employees); and
Tivoli Management Framework (1 employee). Capacity of the SRS on data base servers, backup servers,
servers for another needs and workstations have increased considerably. With the unified SRS network, the
overall efficiency and quality of work has increased. All the SRS regional offices and the Customs Control
Facilities have been connected to the network. High speed optical fibre channels have been put in place for
large offices. The overall data transmission security level has increased considerably because of installed
firewalls in SRS central administration and local offices. A separate firewall has been installed in order to
ensure SRS and EU data exchange network's connection security. Also, the ASYCUDA server for
emergency cases has been installed. Nearly, all the important data from the SRS IT system and other state
register institutions are brought together in the Centralized Data Warehouse System, which can be used by
all officials concerned.

An optical files library system in the regional offices of Latgale and Riga has been established and the link
between Tax Information System and Optical Database has been established. More work is underway to
unify the format and the SRS staffs have visited the State Tax Service of Russia in order to get acquainted
with such a system.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Due to methodological and empirical constraints, project preparation did not entail a cost ­ benefit
analysis. Instead, the quantitative analysis presented in the project was a simple cost ­ recovery analysis
(which was lauded by the QAE Assessment). This analysis showed that even with a modest increase in the
effectiveness of revenue administration fiscal resources will be raised in excess of the cost of the
modernization program. The PAD calculated that, the present value of a permanent, one-time increase in
revenue performance of merely 0.7 percent is sufficient to cover the present value of investment costs,
incremental recurrent costs and depreciation.

The PAD analysis also showed that increases in administrative effectiveness of the SRS, sufficient to
increase revenue performance by 3 percent, would be adequate to cover total costs approximately four
times over. In other words, a one percent increase represents a fiscal gain of about US$48 million in NPV
at a 10 percent discount rate, and yields an IRR of 29%. In practice, revenues increased by 42 percent



                                                     - 12 -

between 1998 and 2003. Although this figure is by far more than the above estimates on cost recovery, it is
difficult to separate how much of this increase is due to the performance of the economy and how much of
due to the efficiency gains as a result of the implementation of the project. The positive impact on revenues
also indicates strong project prospects for sustainability.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The project was essentially an institutional development project (with a comprehensive set of
organizational, management and operational reforms). As a successful project, the institutional
development impact of the SRS project was substantial. The project handled key institutional issues related
to incentive structure, human resource management, vulnerability to corruption, EU accession, and
managerial capacity (See section 4.2 the for details.) Implementation of the 3 level organizational structure
led to significant reduction in duplication of functions, scope for corruption, and compliance cost, thereby
improving the functioning of the Tax and Customs Administration.

As a result of modernization of the Tax and Customs Administration, organizational structure has
improved, operational efficiency has increased, arrears have been reduced and tax compliance and the level
of tax revenues have increased. For example, arrears in relation to total revenues have declined by 50
percent since 2000. In 1997, SRS's 4,300 employees managed 83,000 business taxpayers and on average
collected $242,000 in revenues. In 2003, 5,100 employees managed over 123,000 business taxpayers and
on average collected $670,000 in revenues (see other performance indicators in Section 10 and in Annex 1).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

One delaying factor in project implementation was the protracted process of administrative reorganization
at the national level. This politically charged and sensitive issue resulted in delays in the establishment of
the final configuration of regional office structure for the SRS. In the end, the regional offices were
established on the territorial administrative structure of Latvia, which historically divided the country into 5
Regions.

The delays in the realization of the EU funding also delayed the acquisition of the auditors' workstation.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

In the early stages of project implementation, the further deterioration of the fiscal situation, put pressure
on the availability of counterpart funds. The fiscal situation improved as implementation progressed and
the SRS was able to get all its counterpart funding from the Government budget.

The SRS top management changed 3 times during the span of 5 years. This slowed down somewhat project
implementation and was a drag on the morale and productivity of the SRS staff.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

Customs followed a more modest reform agenda and at a much slower pace than the tax administration.



                                                      - 13 -

The Riga Customs staffs viewed the proposed organization and management changes as mainly for the tax
administration part and were reluctant to go ahead with the planned full merger of their functions with tax
department. The SRS management also did not forcefully pursue this objective and acted slowly to guide
this process.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The total project cost and the final disbursements show close approximation to the original plan. However,
there are variations in the contributions by the components due to minor changes in the scope of some
activities. The total project cost of $44.8 million is close to $45.6 million the total project cost estimated in
the PAD.

The bulk of disbursements finance the operational component (IT hardware) as originally planned.
Consultancy contracts for the organization and management component and for operational component
were evaluated and awarded in a timely manner.

The project benefited from realization of some unused funds from the purchase of equipment and hardware.
At the request of the Government, the unused funds plus the unallocated amounts of the loan in Category 4
were reallocated to Category 1 (Goods EUR 7,067) and to Category 2 (Consultant's Services and Training
EUR 90,078). These were subsequently used for additional workstations for the auditors, surveillance
equipment for Customs, and consultancy services for budget management in the SRS.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

The project sustainability is rated as highly likely. The new institutional structure and business processes of
the SRS are completed and have become operational. The organizational and operational reforms will serve
as a basis for further improvement and are unlikely to be reversed. Among these include the: (i) unification
of functional structures and business processes throughout the country; (ii) strenghtening enforcement and
audit capacities in all regional offices; (iii) implementation of a uniform hardware and software platform
for tax and customs on a national basis; (iv) harmonization of tax and customs procedures to EU
standards; (v) upgrading of taxpayer services and monitoring of them with periodic surveys; and, (vi) the
upgrading of staff skills through continuing on the job training programs.

During the tenure of 4 Ministers of Finance and 3 Director General of the SRS, Government commitment
to implement the project and modernize the SRS remained strong. There is no reason to believe this will
not be sustained. The modernized and reorganized SRS is well integrated in the operations of the
Government. The Government's reliance on this institution for policy support and revenue collection is high
and the sustainability is thus fully ensured. Also, efforts to raise the level of professionalism of the
SRS staff, (through training, study tours, and salary alignment), have created a cadre of
stakeholders within the system who are commited to a new way of doing business and thus help
sustain the reform process.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Most of the project activities have already been incorporated in the regular operations of the SRS.
Continued upgrading and maintenance of the organizational, management, and operational resources are



                                                       - 14 -

normal institutional undertakings. The Government intends to regularly upgrade the equipment, expand
automation, and improve business processes and staff skills. This is in part to close the gap with the EU
norms and keep pace with EU-driven demands (e.g., further improvements in business processes and
procedures).

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

The Bank's performance in lending for the project is rated highly satisfactory (with QAG rating of "1").
The project was in response to a request by the Government to strengthen the tax administration operations
in the face of major fiscal imbalances. The original Government request initially focused on the financing of
computers. Over the course of a year, the Bank project team convinced the authorities that information
technology would not address the fundamental causes of inefficiency in the tax and customs administration
and that the project design needed to include the full range of operational, management and organization
issues. Moreover, that organizational designs and business processes design, would in turn determine the
information technology needs.

The project was prepared with full knowledge of the sector. Built on the prior work done by the EU, the
Bank carried out additional background work on: (i) a corruption vulnerability analysis of the SRS; (ii)
basic questionnaire to measure performance and institutional development; and (iii) diagnostic analysis of
the institutional needs.

Within the Bank the project team consisted of seasoned professional experienced in a number of transition
and non-transition economies in the areas of tax and customs administration, particularly in the fields of
organization and management and information technology. The coordination of donor assistance to Latvia
in the area of tax and customs was well managed. Close consultation was carried out with the IMF, EU
Secretariat in Brussels, DFID, and Denmark's Tax and Customs Administration.

7.2 Supervision:

The Bank performance and the quality of its supervision is rated satisfactory. The Bank team established a
good working relationship with the SRS staff, maintained team continuity, and consistently supervised
implementation from both Washington and from the field. The financial management supervision was
carried out from Warsaw. The Bank and the SRS prepared a special supervision matrix to monitor
progress in implementation of the project. The supervision matrix provided information on each component,
sub-component, and individual activities within the components. This matrix was updated every quarter by
the SRS and was submitted to the Bank for review.

While field visits from headquarters were at least once a year, the field supervision was carried out once
every quarter. The supervision missions focused on outcome indicators as well as on efficient
implementation to ensure sustainability of the operation. This was instrumental in early detection of the
implementation problems and highlighting them to the Government during the course of the supervision
missions or through the mission aide-memoires. The follow-up agreed actions were also closely monitored.
The budget for supervision, however, was not sufficient to fully staff each supervision mission and gain as
rich an understanding of SRS's institutional performance (impact) as would have been ideal (especially
given the prospects for gaining a better understanding of institutional development in a tractable setting).




                                                    - 15 -

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

In view of the quality of project design and supervision, the overall Bank performance is rated as
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The Government performance in the design and preparation of the project is rated highly satisfactory. The
Government was fully involved in project preparation. The SRS carried out detail diagnosis analysis of
deficiencies in organizational structure, management practices, and operational tasks. The Bank carried out
additional background work on corruption vulnerability analysis of the SRS and diagnostic analysis of the
institutional needs. Based on this exchange the SRS developed a set of project activities and presented a
high quality project proposal. The design of each of the project components, their sub-components, activity
schedule and activity cost was discussed at length with the Bank and agreed on.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

The overall implementation performance of the Government is assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons
outlined in sections 3 and 4 above. Nearly all the key activities of the project were fulfilled. There were
some delays on the implementation of the organizational structure of the SRS because the political
decision-taking process regarding the geographic boundaries of the regional offices. This decision was
eventually made in the latter part of the project implementation and the organizational restructuring of the
SRS was completed. There were also some delays in the full allocation of the counterpart funds in the
budget. This situation improved as budgetary balances improved and in the latter years the full amounts of
the counterpart funds were included in the annual budgets.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the implementing agency is assessed as satisfactory due to the reasons outlined in the
previous sections. The State Revenue Agency and the Project Implementation Unit, which was part of the
SRS were responsible for the implementation and the overall coordination of different project activities.
The PIU became quickly familiar with Bank procedures and performed them efficiently. These included
maintaining project accounts, financial management aspects and audit of the project. The PIU also
prepared quarterly reports on the status of the project implementation, including tracking the monitoring
indicators that were included in the project appraisal document. Activities of the PIU were guided by a
Steering Committee composed of The Minister of Finance (Chairman), Deputy State Secretary of the
Ministry of Finance (Deputy Chairman), Director General of the SRS, and the three Deputy Director
General of the SRS.

Training received priority attention and the SRS carried out extensive training and seminars to familiarize
the staff and the taxpayers with the new organizational structure and procedures. The SRS also carried out
survey of staff and taxpayers, which provided timely feedback in the implementation of the modernization
project.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

The overall performance of the Borrower is rated as satisfactory.




                                                     - 16 -

8. Lessons Learned

Project design should be well balanced. The SRS project design not only contained the information
technology component, but also a range of activities to overhaul the organizational structure and business
processes of the SRS. The two components complemented each other and reinforced the implementation of
reforms throughout the SRS. This ensured that all relevant areas of the SRS activities were covered and the
key institutional issues were addressed. The experience also indicates that background work and
maintaining a knowledge base about the country is critical in the project design. Identifying highly
experienced staff within the Bank was also crucial in the design of the project.

Pilot testing before country-wide roll out is important to ensure success of comprehensive reforms.
Restructuring is an iterative process and there has to be continuous monitoring and repeated interventions
to make it successful. In particular, the institutional aspects normally take longer time to implement and
this needs to be properly incorporated in the design of the project. The SRS project design included key
institutional issues, which were essential to the success of the project. The reforms initiated by the SRS
needed to proceed on several fronts to improve efficiency of the organization, and were far extensive to be
implemented throughout the country all at the same time. They were all new and needed to be tested and, if
necessary, modified. They benefited immensely from the experience of the two pilot regional units.

Coordinating assistance for EU acceding countries is critical at the preparation stage. This is
particularly important for the EU acceding countries. The project encompassed reforms in key areas of tax
and customs, where other donors were also involved. The Government and the Bank team managed to
coordinate all donor activities in designing the project. This eventually led to complementary financing from
major donors in Latvia in support of the project's institutional reform program. The trust fund from the
Japanese Government as well as targeted TA from the European Countries also provided resources for the
preparation and implementation of the reform programs initiated under the project.

Full involvement and ownership of the Government in project preparation is essential for its success.
Much of the success of the project can be attributed to the commitment of the Government to reform the
SRS and to the full involvement of the SRS officials and its staff in the project, including all aspects of its
planning, design, preparation, and implementation. The project outcome demonstrated that when the
commitment and the ownership of the Government is strong, it can carry the project to success and
maintain its sustainability. To enhance ownership the project should provide incentives to all stakeholders
to become closely involved in all aspects of the project design and implementation.

Establishing oversight mechanisms is essential at implementation stage. Reform of tax and customs
required restructuring the organization of the SRS and streamlining processes and procedures. High level
oversight and coordination was therefore necessary to ensure that the new processes and procedures are
introduced across the SRS in a coordinated and consistent manner. This coordination was made possible
through the creation of a steering committee composed of high officials in the SRS and the Ministry of
Finance who guided the process and were continuously involved in the implementation phase of the project.


Sustainability of IT programs hinges on risk management: Sustainability of modernizing information
systems requires managing risks on several fronts. The implementation agency needs to equally focus on
the challenges of implementation as well as managing the risks associated with maintaining its information
systems. It is essential to focus risk containment on codifying and enforcing professional methodologies for
systems security, systems management, and application and data maintenance. Risk containment should
also focus on development and retention of informatics staff. Issues, such as system access and controlled
deployment of updated/upgrade application software, are critical operational concerns that senior managers


                                                       - 17 -

need to pay attention to. These cannot be simply delegated to the IT management team as they directly
affect the viability of operations. Wage differentials should be kept to minimum to retain qualified staff.
The large wage differential between public and private sectors leaves the SRS highly vulnerable to turnover
in its key staff, in particular the informatics staff. The implementing agency needs to explore possibilities of
minimizing the compensation gap, and should plan its informatics staffing levels with the understanding
that there could be high turnover.

Continuity of staff is important during the life of the project. Projects that have strong institutional
implications need intensive and experienced supervision as they necessitate continuous dialogue with the
Government. The SRS project performance highlights the importance of continuity of staff in the life of the
project. The head of the PIU, who was appointed by the SRS and coordinated all activities of the project,
stayed on the job during the life of the project. On the Bank side, continuity of project supervision
facilitated project implementation. The Bank maintained one task team leader throughout the project, from
the design stage to implementation, and completion. Such continuity tends to avoid frequent and often
unnecessary changes in supervision tactics.

Institutional development projects require greater supervision budgets than typical investment projects.
It is important to ensure that supervision missions are backed by appropriate budgets and adequate skill
mix to address relevant project issues. Institutional development projects seek to change the behavior of an
organization. There are no mature, "industry standard" methodologies for such undertakings. They are
context sensitive and are fundamentally exploratory processes. To be a constructive partner in such
projects, the Bank task team needs to be closely and continuously engage in troubleshooting and tuning of
the project approaches. Institutional behavior is often hard to quantify and monitor through simple
mechanisms. It requires a continuous dialogue on important issues in parallel to supervision. Changing
institutional behavior requires a long gestation process. Thus, supervising the outcomes of the institutional
development projects often needs a longer timeframe than the duration of the loan.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Objectives and structure of the Project
In year 1998 in compliance with the requirements of the National Program of the Government of the
Republic of Latvia and the European Union Customs and Tax Administration Systems as well as the SRS
Strategic Plan in cooperation with the experts of the World Bank SRS developed a long term development
and operation project ­ "SRS Modernization Project for years 1998 ­ 2002". The objectives were to
establish an agency that would efficiently administer laws relating to taxes, customs and social insurance
contributions while at the same time pave the way for a reduction in compliance costs and some tax rates.

The SRS Modernization Project was build on the Strategic Plan of the SRS and was formed as a set of
mutually related activities or sub-tasks, with the aim to improve various SRS operations and provide
technical assistance and training to its staff. All subprojects were joined under a common goal ­
improvement of the state revenues collection system and modernization of the SRS operations.
Project consisted of two components ­ Organization and Management component and Operational
Component. These components were formed to 15 areas and 129 sub-projects. The organization and
management component was designed mainly to rationalize organizational structure of the SRS, improve
planning and budgeting, provide operational guidelines, reduce opportunities for corruption, and improve
personnel management. The operational component targeted business processes of the SRS with the aim to
improve taxpayer registration, strengthen audit and investigation, improve customs operation, reduce
arrears, and improve tax and customs client services.



                                                        - 18 -

Achievements of the Project
In our view the SRS project fully achieved its objectives. As the most important achievements of SRS
Modernization project, the following may be noted:
·        Ensured consistency of State Revenue Service with the requirements of the European Union;
·        Ensured stable and predictable revenue flows, during a period of far-reaching structural changes in
         the economy, thus, meeting the demands on the budget and maintaining the overall fiscal balance;
·        Improved compliance, revenue collection and widened the bases of taxes and customs, enabled a
         reduction in tax rates (particularly those on social insurance and corporate tax) and, as a result,
         encouraged private sector development, employment growth and expansion of the formal economy;
·        Improved overall quality of taxpayer and customs services, reducing the time and financial costs
         associated with compliance with tax, customs and social insurance regulations;
·        Improved transparency of the revenue administration system while reducing opportunities and
incentives for corruption;
·        Facilitated trade and achieved EU standards in tax and customs administration in preparation for
EU accession;
·        Improved overall organizational effectiveness and efficiency of SRS;
·        Strengthened human resource strategy and redesigned the pay system to ensure retaining quality
         staff with defined career paths and commitment to the organization.

One of the key achievements of the SRS project was the change in the organizational structure of the
SRS.The project helped the SRS to transform its organizational structure into three levels:
Level 1 ­ central administration, where the overall methodology and strategy is developed;
Level 2 ­ regional offices the duties of which include implementation of the strategy as well as audit and
controls;
Level 3 ­ local offices and customs control posts where major clients' services need to be delivered.
Till year 1999 there were 34 local offices of SRS subordinated to Director General. This was too many for
a comparatively small country like Latvia. As a result of the reorganization, 34 SRS local offices were
formed into 6 Regional Offices under the Director General of SRS. These changes have made the whole
system of taxes and customs much more manageable and have made the system more transparent for the
government officials as well as for taxpayers and customs clients. The new organizational structure
enhanced confidence of taxpayers and customs clients, improved SRS reputation, and diminished the
complexity of SRS administrative processes and bureaucracy. It has also increased capability of SRS to
improve its analysis of the situation and to better enforce its control functions.

The implementation of new structure initially was undertaken exclusively in two pilot Regional Offices ­
Zemgale and Latgale. The geographic location of the pilot regions was selected taking into account that
Latvia's external and internal borders in the context of the European Union. Within the framework of pilot
Regional Offices, valuable experience was gained, including increase in client satisfaction, expanded scope
and quality of services, as well as improved efficiency of financial, material and personnel resources. Based
on these favorable results it was decided to establish the Regional Offices in the whole territory of Latvia.
In year 2000 under the SRS Modernization Project the preparation for the establishment of the Regional
Offices throughout the country was initiated. Different versions were developed for this purpose, their
comparative analysis was performed and the optimum number of the possible regions was selected. As a
result the SRS concluded that the version that encompasses 6 regions was the most suitable one. These
Regions include Riga, Kurzeme, Zemgale, Latgale, Vidzeme, as well as Riga Customs.
The Regional Offices perform the functions of the SRS basic operations, i.e. analysis of the primary data,
audit, collection of the tax debts, review of the appealed resolutions, customs control and the trade



                                                     - 19 -

promotion, as well as the support functions to ensure the operations of the structural units of the regional
offices. They also implement the SRS strategy by fulfilling particular tasks and using the strategic,
methodological and technical support of the SRS central administration.

In order to improve quality of services for taxpayers and customs clients, 55 clients` service halls were
established in each local office and customs control point of SRS Regional Offices.
The transformation of the SRS organizational structure was performed based on the existing personnel
resources without changing the total number of the SRS employees. Taxpayers and customs clients have
appreciated the improvements that the SRS has made in the sphere of client services. As a result, the
number of taxpayers who fulfill their tax obligations on time and in good faith has increased.

On the whole the SRS and the taxpayers have benefited from the establishment of the Regional offices in
several ways:
Y        Optimization of functions has led to less duplication and more efficient utilization of the personnel
and material resources;
Y        Establishment of the clients' service halls has provided the needed services to the tax payers and
customs clients;
Y        Provision of free of charge consultations on the tax and customs administration issues has helped
         the taxpayers­ in every regional office approximately 50 -60 thousands consultations are provided
         annually;
Y        Split of the clients service and control functions has reduced the risk of corrupt behavior , the work
         process has become more open, high quality and uniform services provided in any place of
         servicing the taxpayers;
Y        Improvement of the personnel management schemes has motivated the staff;
Y        Modernization of the work places at the SRS Regional Offices and customs control posts has taken
         place to comply with the ergonomic and labor safety requirements;
Y        Modernization of the IT base has improved efficiency of the staff and has provided flexibility in the
         solution of the problems;
Y        Improved procedure of the pre-trial tax disputes resolution has improved the recovery of tax
arrears.

Contribution of the Project for integration in the European Union
During the implementation of the SRS Modernization Project the "Latvian National Program for
Integration in the European Union" was implemented and the guidelines of the EU customs and EU fiscal
guidelines were introduced (i.e., the conditions developed by EU which were necessary to fulfill for Latvia
to be able to join EU). Latvian National Program for Integration in the European Union was a program
prepared by the government and set the measures for Latvia to be ready to join the European Union. The
SRS Modernization project in all its aspects helped and promoted Latvia for successful accession to EU.
Much work was done during the period of pre-accession, including: harmonizing the tax base and rates to
ensure that tax revenue is as neutral as possible to international trade; implementing EU registration for
VAT and the EU VAT Information Exchange System (VIES) for cross-checking of international
transactions; achieving acceptable compliance standards to prevent Latvia from becoming a tax haven in
the EU; and educating and training SRS staff to become familiar with and perform procedures according to
EU standards. However accession to EU was only the first step towards Latvia's full integration into the
European economy. SRS Modernization project provides a strong foundation for further work in direction
of integration in EU.




                                                      - 20 -

Factors influencing realization of SRS Modernization project
The SRS Modernization project faced some challenges in its implementation:
Y        SRS employees had to perform extra activities for realization of the Project at the same time that
         they were doing their routine daily tasks. Although the employees knew their functions and could
         chose the best course of action for confronting the problems, this additional workload for
         employees reduced the time they could spend on many of their outside activities;
Y        Procurement procedures specified in the Loan Agreement were complicated and time consuming
         compared to the small amount of the Loan and applied in many cases and items that needed to be
         procured;
Y        Frequent changes in the government of Republic of Latvia caused some slowdowns in realization
of the Project;
Y        SRS organizational structure in Riga was established differently than in other Regions. The
         economical and demographical situation is widely different in Riga region compared to other
         Regions ­ more than 35% of Latvian population and economical activities are located in Riga
         region. To make the SRS structure appropriate for the existing situation and to provide optimal
         performance of tasks and functions related to servicing of taxpayers and customs clients in Riga
         region it was decided to establish separate structural units for Tax and Customs administration
         (Riga Regional Office and Riga Customs Regional Office).

Lesson learned and conclusions
For all involved parties, it is essential to continue with the objectives and the reform of the SRS project in
order to ensure the sustainability and further development of the Latvian tax administration system.
The implementation of new methods and programs may be regarded as additional burden to daily workload.
To minimize this, it is important to motivate the interest of the persons involved in the reform process and
the work performance
The focus on improved communication is essential for successful implementation of the SRS strategy.
Therefore sufficient financial means have to be allocated to publicize actions already undertaken to improve
the situation and to campaign for further reforms.



Future plans in order to take advantage of acquired experience
Republic of Latvia was well prepared for accession to the European Union and now has joined it. The real
integration process, which has already started will require much time and efforts from all state institutions.
SRS plans to take advantage of acquired experience in project implementing to plan, implement,
administrate, and supervise various EU related projects, which will complete a successful integration to
EU. Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has performed well because of the improved information
technology and management of financial data. In the process of implementation of the Project, employees of
PIU gained an important and broad experience in project administration and application of competitive
procurement procedures. The fact that the skills necessary for project management were acquired by
employees of PIU in project implementation process should be regarded as positive. The present PIU will
continue its work in tax and customs administration system but will be further reformed to take
responsibility for the SRS collaboration with EU

Acknowledgement
The SRS and the Ministry of Finance would like to thank all experts of World Bank involved in SRS
Modernization project without the help of which, successful implementation of such a time and labor
consuming Project would not have been possible, and its goals would have not been achieved. Experts of
World Bank spent much time and efforts to help with ideas in the Project preparation and with suggestions
and consultations in the Project planning and successful realization.


                                                      - 21 -

The SRS and the Ministry of Finance would also like to thank all other partners and organizations for
participation, cooperation and support that led to a successful realization of SRS Modernization project.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable


10. Additional Information

SRS Project: Selected performance indicators

    Revenues of the total consolidated budget                              Revenues received of the total consolidated budget
                                                                                    compared to the previous year, %
                                                            14%
                                                                                                                      12,2%
                                                                                                                                 11,5%
                                                            12%

                                                            10%
                                                   1823,1
                                                                     8%
                                           1634,5                                                        6,0%
                                                                     6%                         5,2%
                               1456,4
                     1374,6                                          4%
         1307,0                                                                     2,1%
 1280,5                                                              2%
                                                                          0%
                                                                     0%
  1998    1999        2000      2001       2002    2003                   1998      1999        2000       2001        2002      2003
                Actually received (mill., Ls)

Revenues of the total budget compared to GDP (%)                          Revenues of the consolidated budget per one employee of
                                                                                              SRS (thous.Ls)
                                                                      380
                                                                                                                                   367,5

                                                                      360

                                                  31,5%                                                                   350,4
                                                                      340
30,2%                                     30,3%
        29,8%                                               Ls
                   29,3%                                              320
                              28,8%                                                                            316,7
                                                              thous.,
                                                                      300
                                                                                                     295,0

                                                                      280     284,3       288,6


                                                                      260
1998     1999        2000      2001        2002    2003                    1998       1999        2000      2001       2002      2003

       Number of internal audits performed                                Arrears in relation to the revenues of the consolidated
                                                                                                  budget, %
                                                                     6%
                                                    20                                      5,2%
                 17
                                  16
                                                                     5%     4,7%



                                                                     4%



7                                                                    3%                                        2,5%          2,4%


                                                                     2%
 2000           2001             2002            2003                       2000            2001             2002            2003




                                                                           - 22 -

       Debt assessed in the tax audits, mill. Ls                                                              Number of tax auditors and tax debt discovered per auditor
                                                                                                        600                                                                      700
                                                      133,12
                                                                                                                  498                                                            600
                                                                                                        500                                                         605,37
                                            108,67                                                                            416                                                500

                                                                                                        400                                             472,66
                                                                                        auditors                                            348                                  400                      Ls
                                                                                                of
                     65,90                                                                              300                                                                      300                        thous.
            55,13                50,90                                                            number                                                 224
                                                                                                                                                                      206        200
 35,01                                                                                                  200                  158,41       146,26                                 100
                                                                                                                 110,70

                                                                                                        100                                                                      0
                                                                                                                 1999        2000          2001         2002         2003
                                                                                                           Amount assessed in tax audits per one person employed in audit, thous. Ls
  1998      1999      2000       2001        2002      2003                                                Number of personnel employed in tax audits



Changes of the wages of SRS employees compared to                                                                            Number of consultansts and
                     year 1998                                                                                    number of consultations provided to taxpayers
                                                                                                        400 000                                                                120
                                                                                                        380 000
                                                        77,3%                                                                                        93
                                                                                                        360 000                      89                               92       100

                                                                                                        340 000                                                                80
                                                                                                        320 000      74
                                                                   consultations                        300 000                                                                60
                                                                                of                                                                                                     consultants
                                                                                                        280 000                                                                                   of

                                       32,3%                                                            260 000                                                                40
                                                                                  Number
                                                                                                        240 000                                                                20                   number

                                                                                                        220 000
    11,4%                                                                                                            291 368      306 738         296 447       339 988
                5,1%        7,9%                                                                        200 000                                                                0
                                                                                                                      2000         2001            2002           2003

                                                                                                               Number of consultations                   Number of consultants
   1999        2000          2001          2002         2003

Number of tax payers participating in the training events                                                            Changes of the Corporate Income Tax rate

                                                   43 497         26%


                                                                  24%                                           25%       25%       25%       25%


                                                                  22%
                                                                                                                                                         22%
     38 621                 38 689
                                                                  20%


                                                                  18%                                                                                            19%


                                                                  16%


                                                                  14%                                                                                                             15%

      2001                  2002                   2003                                                       1998        1999    2000        2001      2002      2003        2004

      Changes in the social insurance tax rate                                                           Establishment andand enlargement of SRS regional offices
                                                                                                         Establishment             enlargement           SRS

                                                                                                                               Regional office of
                                                                                                        Regional office         Riga's customs
 37%        37%                                                                                         of Riga (establish
                      36%                                                                                                         (establish in
                                 35%         35%                                                                                                                        Regional office
                                                       33%                                                in January 1,       September 1, 2002)                           of Vidzeme
                                                                                                             2002)                                                      (establish in July
 28%        28%       27%        26%         26%                                                                                                                             2, 2001)
                                                       24%



  9%        9%        9%         9%           9%        9%




 1998      1999      2000        2001       2002       2003

 Employer's rate         Employee's rate             Total rate                                           Regional office of        Regionaloffice of
                                                                                                                                         Zemgale
                                                                                                         Kurzeme (establish                                  Regional office of Latgale
                                                                                                          in October 1, 2002)        (enlargement - in        (enlargement in November
                                                                                                                                       July 2, 2001)                   1, 2002




                                                                                                                 - 23 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
               Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate


1. Sustained revenue performance.             Share of total revenues in GDP that was 28.3 Budgetary revenues increased by 42.4
                                              per cent in 2001 increased to 31.5 percent in percent during 1998-2003. During the same
                                              2003.                                         period, revenue targets of the SRS more than
                                                                                            realized (except for 2001). The increase in
                                                                                            revenues was combined with increase in
                                                                                            efficiency of tax collectors. Revenue collected
                                                                                            per employee of the SRS, which in 1998 was
                                                                                            Ls 284,000 increased to Ls 367,000 in 2003

2. Reduced compliance costs.                  By mid 2004 55 client halls had been          Compliance costs have declined as: (i) the
                                              established. These halls have been effective taxpayers have access to free consultation
                                              in providing consultancy to taxpayers and in  with the SRS; (ii) access to a wide range of
                                              reducing the waiting time in lines.           information and legal acts; (iii) proximity of
                                                                                            local offices to majority of taxpayers; and,(iv)
                                                                                            the possibility to file returns electronically.

3. Decline in arrears, tax evasion and        Criminal cases submitted by Financial Police The SRS staff have been able to detect more
contraband traffic.                           have increased by 1.6 times since 1998.The arrears. The new organizational structure of
                                              number of audits have declined, but their     the Financial Police Department (in 2002)
                                              efficiency, in terms of establishing breach,  has led to reduction in tax evasion as its
                                              has increased from 44 percent in 1998 to 59 employees have been able to collect more
                                              percent in 2003. In 2003 the number of        taxes in 2003 (Ls 322,800 per employee)
                                              confiscated good in Customs increased by      than in 1998 (Ls 82,900 per employee).
                                              45 percent compared with 2002.                Similarly, contraband has declined and the
                                                                                            increase in confiscation by Customs has
                                                                                            increased by 66 percent since 2001. A
                                                                                            number of other improvements in Customs
                                                                                            have taken place in connection with Latvia
                                                                                            joining the EU. These include: (i) eliminating
                                                                                            a large number of Customs offices at borders
                                                                                            of Estonia and Lithuania and locating them in
                                                                                            the land border of EU; (ii) creating mobile
                                                                                            units to complement the work of Custom
                                                                                            offices; and (iii) restructuring Customs
                                                                                            Criminal Board to strengthen the oversight of
                                                                                            Customs regulations and functions. These
                                                                                            are expected to further reduce contraband
                                                                                            traffic.

4. Improved transparency and integrity of the Tax Appeals Division was established in       The SRS has paid more attention to
revenue administration system.                2000 and the number of cases investigated     investigating appeals. Since 2002 the
                                              has gone up more than 3 times.                number of appeals has doubled.
                                                                                            The SRS has increased registration of
                                                                                            officials on asset declaration by 62 percent
                                                                                            since 1998. The Corruption Prevention
                                                                                            Division provides consultations to the officials
                                                                                            on issues related to asset declaration and
                                                                                            conflict of interest.

5. A more equitable distribution of the       Corporate tax rate dropped to 19 percent in   Corporate income tax rate has declined from
effective tax burden, through increased       2003 and to 15 percent in 2004.               25 percent in 1998 to 15 percent in 2004.
compliance.                                                                                 However, the total tax collected has been on
                                                                                            the rise because of the increase in voluntary
                                                                                            compliance.

6. Reduction in social insurance contribution Social insurance contribution dropped from    The reduction in social insurance contribution
rate starting year 2002.                      37 percent in 1998 to 33 percent in 2003.     rate is mainly on the employees contribution,
                                                                                            which currently stand about 3 times the
                                                                                            employer's contribution. The goal of the
                                                                                            Government is to make both contributions
                                                                                            equal.




                                                                 - 24 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
               Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate


1.1 New 5 year strategic plan produced       The SRS strategic plan for tax and customs        The SRS has prepared the following strategic
                                             administration and its plan for training of staff plans in line wit the objectives of the project.
                                             is in place.                                      These include: (i) strategic plan for tax
                                                                                               administration (1999-2003);(ii) strategic plan
                                                                                               on tax control (2002-2006); (iii) strategic plan
                                                                                               for Customs (2002-2007); (iv) strategic plan
                                                                                               for human resource management
                                                                                               (2002-2007); (v) strategic plan on
                                                                                               communication (2003-2005); and (vi)
                                                                                               strategic plan on training (2002-2007).


1.2 New regional and local office structures Establishment of all SRS regional offices         All of the regional offices of SRS have been
introduced in two regions                    planned has been completed:                       established with a uniform organizational
                                             ·     Regional office of Kurzeme­ in October structure, except in Riga. The manuals and
                                             1, 2002;                                          job descriptions of SRS regional offices'
                                             ·     Regional office of Latgale­ in              structural units and district units have also
                                             November 1, 2002;                                 been prepared. Clients service halls have
                                             ·     Regional office of Riga­ in January 1,      been established in all local and regional
                                             2002;                                             offices.
                                             ·     Regional office of Riga's customs ­ in
                                             September 1, 2002;
                                             ·     Regional office of Vidzeme ­ in July 2,
                                             2001;
                                             .     Regional office of Zemgale - in July 2,
                                             2001.


1.3 Improved action plan for performance     4 main tasks, divided into 19 assignments,        Tax administration action plans have been
indicators introduced.                       have been included in the tax administration      completed and are being implemented;
                                             action plans for 2003. Also, 45 indicators        criteria and indicators for each plan have
                                             have been defined for the year 2003.              been set. Moreover, unified supervision and
                                                                                               assessment mechanisms have been put in
                                                                                               place. There are various tasks defined that
                                                                                               have to be included in tax administration
                                                                                               action plans each year. These include
                                                                                               activities, implementation plans, and specific
                                                                                               indicators. The results are assessed once a
                                                                                               year and appropriate changes will be
                                                                                               introduced for the coming year.


1.4 Differenced pay and incentive schemes    The remuneration of employees was 77.3            The SRS pay scale has improved and a new
implemented for the SRS staff.               percent higher in 2003 compared to 1998.          pay and bonus system has been introduced
                                             Survey of regional office employees was           to retain skilled staff. The average annual
                                             carried out in 2003 to assess their               turnover in the SRS has been around 11
                                             satisfaction with the job.                        percent since 1999 and number of
                                                                                               employees with more than 5 years of service
                                                                                               currently stands at 50 percent. The SRS is
                                                                                               also improving the work environment as
                                                                                               retaining qualified staff requires both better
                                                                                               pay and better working environment.

                                                                                               Since the establishment of the internal audit
1.5 Internal audit program implemented       The number of internal audits performed has unit in 1999, the following improvements have
                                             nearly doubled since 2000.                        been initiated: planning and development of a
                                                                                               program for internal audit; investigation;
                                                                                               approval procedures for audit reports; closure
                                                                                               of internal audit; implementation of
                                                                                               recommendations; and filing.


                                                                                               Since the start of the reorganization of the
                                                                                               SRS a number of functions of different tax




                                                                - 25 -

1.6 Incompatible functions are separated   Organizational restructuring of the SRS       departments and customs departments have
                                           completed.                                    been integrated. Duplication of functions has
                                                                                         been reduced and incompatible functions
                                                                                         have been separated.

                                                                                         Special libraries for storing taxpayer files
                                                                                         have been established in all regional offices
                                                                                         under high security standards and
1.7 Management and security of taxpayer                                                  procedures.
case files are improved.
                                                                                         All the SRS regional offices and the Customs
                                                                                         control facilities have been connected to the
                                                                                         network. Centralize Data Warehouse System
2.1 IT system developed on schedule and    SRS IT security policy has been prepared.     has been established. Customs Information
within budget.                             Data base servers are put in place and all    System (CMIS) is now established. This
                                           database servers are provided with UPS. All   system could be also linked with ASYCUDA,
                                           regional offices have been switched over to   which is now complete. With support of the
                                           high- speed optical fibre channel.            EU, TARIC system and European Common
                                                                                         Transit Computerized System (NCTS) have
                                                                                         been introduced. So is the computerized
                                                                                         transit control system program (MCC), which
                                                                                         is widely used in Europe. Mechanisms for
                                                                                         exchange of information with more than 40
                                                                                         government institutions have been developed.

                                                                                         Revenue collection has increased and
                                                                                         revenue targets met (See item 1 above).


                                                                                         Tax arrears collection has improved and the
2.2 Revenue collection maintained and      Revenue collection has increased and          amount of tax arrears collected increased by
revenue targets met.                       revenue targets met (See item 1 above).       164 percent between 1998 and 2003. In
                                                                                         1999 only 95 cases were sent for judicial
                                                                                         proceedings. This figure increased to 790 in
2.3 Tax arrears reduced.                   Arrears collected in 2003 increased by 14.4   2003.
                                           percent compared with 2002.
                                                                                         During 1998-2003 the efficiency of tax audit
                                                                                         increased and the amount of arrears
                                                                                         collected per audit increased from Ls 35
                                                                                         million to Ls 133 million.

2.4 Increased audit revenue and audit      In 2003 the additional revenues from audit
coverage.                                  increased by 23 percent compared with         The amount of customs arrears and penalties
                                           2002.                                         has increased while the number of post
                                                                                         examinations has declined from 315 in 1998
                                                                                         to 127 in 2003. The average time shipments
                                                                                         spend in Customs has declined from 40-50
2.5 Increased positive identification of   Procedures for fraud investigation have       minutes before the reform to 10-15 minutes
violations by Customs.                     improved. Average time shipments spend in     in 2004.
                                           Customs is 10-15 minutes.

                                                                                         The collection cost has been declining since
                                                                                         1998. The cost of collection per Ls1 has
                                                                                         declined from Ls 0.029 in 1998 to Ls 0.02 in
                                                                                         2001 and 2002 before increasing to Ls 0.027
                                                                                         in 2003. This cost is expected to continue its
2.6 Reduced cost of collection             The cost of collection increased a little in  decline in 2004.
                                           2003 compared with 2002 due to higher
                                           administrative expenses related to coming on The compliance costs has declined since
                                           line of the auditors work stations and salary 1998 due to: (i) establishment of client
                                           increase.                                     service halls; (ii) providing advise to
                                                                                         taxpayers on forms; (iii) improved access to
                                                                                         normative acts and tax related information;
2.7 Reduced taxpayer compliance costs.     Compliance cost has continued to decline.     and (vi) electronic declaration of taxes (see
                                                                                         also item 2 above).

1End of project




                                                               - 26 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Organization and Management Component                         5.40             5.39           99.8
Operational Component                                        29.90           29.77            99.6
Recurrent Costs (including Contingencies and fees)           10.30             9.68           93.5

Total Baseline Cost                                          45.60           44.84
                         Total Project Costs                 45.60           44.84
                  Total Financing Required                   45.60           44.84


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00          0.00          1.15        1.15
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           3.01             0.00          0.30          25.44       28.75
                                  (2.55)            (0.00)      (0.25)          (0.00)      (2.80)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00          1.69          1.39        3.08
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (1.43)          (0.00)      (1.43)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00          0.90          1.42        2.32
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.82)          (0.00)      (0.82)
5. Misc. & Recurrent Costs         0.00             0.00          0.00          10.30       10.30
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)      (0.00)
   Total                           3.01             0.00          2.89          39.70       45.60
                                  (2.55)            (0.00)      (2.50)          (0.00)      (5.05)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                           0.00             0.00         0.00           2.56       2.56
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                           1.90             0.00         1.28          26.32       29.50
                                  (1.57)           (0.00)       (1.07)         (0.00)      (2.64)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         2.24           0.58       2.82
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (1.91)         (0.00)      (1.91)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00         0.28           0.00       0.28
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.27)         (0.00)      (0.27)
5. Misc. & Recurrent Costs         0.00             0.00         0.05           9.63       9.68
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.05)         (0.00)      (0.05)
   Total



                                                 - 27 -

                                           1.90               0.00              3.85             39.09            44.84
                                          (1.57)             (0.00)            (3.30)            (0.00)           (4.87)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units. Miscellaneous item includes recurrent
      costs and fees



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Organization and               1.63         3.77                     1.55         3.84                  95.1     101.9
Management Component
Operational Component          3.42        26.48                     3.27         26.50                 95.6     100.1
Recurrent Costs                            10.30                                  9.63                            93.5
Total                          5.05        40.55                     4.87         39.97                 96.4      98.6




                                                          - 28 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


Not Applicable




                                      - 29 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              May 1998                  8    TEAM LEADER (1), TAX
                                             ADMIN SPECIALIST(1),
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1),
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1), ECONOMIST
                                             (1), CONSULTANTS (3)
              July 1998                 7    TEAM LEADER (1), TAX
                                             ADMIN SPECIALIST(1),
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1),
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1), ECONOMIST
                                             (1), CONSULTANTS (1),
                                             OPERATION ANALYST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              September 1998            7    TEAM LEADER (1), TAX
                                             ADMIN SPECIALIST(1),
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1),
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1), PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR ECONOMIST (1),
                                             OPERATION SPECIALIST
                                             (1), ECONOMIST (1)
              October 1998              7    TEAM LEADER (1), TAX
                                             ADMIN SPECIALIST(1),
                                             PUBLIC SECTOR
                                             MANAGEMENT
                                             SPECIALIST(1),
                                             INFORMATION SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1), PUBLIC
                                             SECTOR ECONOMIST (1),
                                             OPERATION SPECIALIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1)

 Supervision
              06/20/1999                5    TTL/SR. ECON (1); INFO           S               S
                                             MGT SPEC (1); PROJECT
                                             ADVISOR (1); SR PUB
                                             SECT MGT SPEC (1);
                                             ECONOMIST
                                             (1)



                                              - 30 -

               09/29/1999              1    TASK LEADER (1)                   S    S
               05/22/2000              5    TTL/SR. ECON (1); INFO MGT        S    S
                                            SPEC (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPEC (1); SR PUB SECT MGT
                                            SPEC (1); FINL MGT SPEC (1)
               05/06/2001              3    TEAM LEADER (1); IT               S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); ECONOMIST
                                            (1)
               06/12/2002              2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),             S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
               11/25/2002              3    TASK LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); RESEARCH ANALYST (1)
               07/01/2003              3    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                            ECONOMIST (1)
               03/29/2004              2    TASK MANAGER (1);                 S    S
                                            ECONOMIST (1)

 ICR
               11/01/2004             2     TASK MANAGER (1);
                                            INFO MGT SPEC (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            47.1                         156.6
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 23.1                           77.6
  Supervision                           95.6                         350.8
  ICR                                     6.0                          25.7
  Total                                171.8                         610.7




                                            - 31 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 32 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 33 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


l World Bank. 1998. "Project Appraisal Document" Report No. 18485 - LV. October 30.


l World Bank. 1999. "Loan Agreement, State Revenue Service Modernization Project" Loan No. 4416
  LV. January, 13.

l World Bank. 1999. "Quality Assurance Group - Latvia State Revenue Service Modernization Project:
  Quality at Entry" March 22.

l Aide - Memoires and Back to Office Reports of 9 Supervision Missions during the project
  implementation period 1999-2004.

l Memoranda to files and other project correspondences during 1998-2004.


l State Revenue Service, Project Implementation Unit. "Quartely Reports on SRS Modernization
  Project" 1999-2004.

l State Revenue Service, 2003. "Results of Taxpayers' and Employees' Survey Held in Local Units" of
  the State Revenue Service. Riga 2003.




                                               - 34 -

- 35 -

