Report No. PID6230
Project Name                     Latvia-State Revenue Service   (@)
Modernization Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Public Sector Management
Project ID                       LVPE55585
Borrower                         Republic of Latvia
Implementing Agency              State Revenue Service Republic of Latvia
1 Smilsu St., Riga LV 1978 Latvia
Tel:    371 - 7229663
Fax:    371 - 7820010
Environment Category             C
Date This PID Prepared           September 30, 1998
Projected Board Date             December 3, 1998
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background    Revenue administration in Latvia needs
organizational and administrative arrangements that match Latvia's success in
its transition to a market economy. The organizational and management system
of the State Revenue System (SRS) embody a large measure of temporary and
interim solutions to its existing problems. To improve these systems, SRS has
embarked on a broad-based modernization program. This program entails an
integrated set of investments to strengthen its organizational, management and
operational capabilities, to ensure stable and predictable revenue flows,
improve taxpayer services and transparency of the system; and, strengthen the
overall organizational effectiveness of the SRS.
2.      Objectives       The project objective is to support the development of: (i)
a revenue system that promotes sustainable revenue performance on the basis of
voluntary compliance, reducing corruption and evasion, and fostering private
sector development through lower compliance costs and tax rates; (ii) a State
Revenue Service (SRS) that efficiently, equitably and honestly administers
laws relating to taxes, customs, social insurance contributions, and income
and asset declaration of public officials; and (iii) a revenue agency
organized and equipped with business processes, skills, management systems,
and operational tools appropriate for a contemporary, compliance-based revenue
administration.
3.      Description      The State Revenue Service Modernization Project would
provide technical assistance, training, information technologies, other
equipment and minor civil works under two inter-linked components: (a)
Organizational and Management Component; and (b) Operational Component. The
first component would include support for (a) rationalization of organization
structure; (b) strategy planning, budgeting, financial and asset management;
(c) operational management; (d) personnel management; (e) internal control and
prevention of corruption; (f) external and internal relations; and, (g)
management information system. The Operational Component would modernize SRS
operations in: (a) taxpayer registration; (b) declaration, collection, and



recovery of arrears; (c) audit and investigation; (d) customs operations;
(e) adjudication and appeal; (f) taxpayer and customs client services; and
(g) common information technology infrastructure.
4.      Financing        Financing includes: 40.7 million USD equivalent from the
Government (including tax and incremental recurrent costs); and 5.0 million
USD equivalent from the IBRD. Total financing is 45.7 million USD equivalent.
5.      Implementation      The Project will be implemented by the State Revenue
Service, with close collaboration with the Ministry of Finance. The Steering
Committee includes: Minister of Finance (Chairman);Deputy State Secretary,
Ministry of Finance (Deputy Chairman); State Minister for State Revenue;
Director General, State Revenue Service; and 3 Deputies to Director General,
SRS. A Project Implementation Unit has also been established in the SRS.
6.      Sustainability        The modernization of revenue administration,
including a substantial automation investment, almost invariably results in
improvements in revenue performance well in excess of the investment program,
thus ensuring financial sustainability. A high political commitment to pursue
fiscal balance and the specific request for a comprehensive institutional and
information systems modernization project will help ensure the targeted
project objectives are achieved and sustained.
7.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector       This
project reflects the experience Bank-financed tax administration projects in
Hungary, Russia, Thailand, and several Latin American countries. It also
draws on the recent integration experiences of Canada, Denmark and the
Netherlands, among others. Lessons learned include the importance of:
(a) meaningfully connecting IT and business plans, by complementing the IT-
dominated operational components with components aimed at the organizational
and management aspects of revenue administration; (b) maintaining a long-term
perspective, while satisfying short-term policy and operational needs; and
(c) introducing performance indicators as benchmarks for revenue agency staff
and managers. The experience also demonstrates that institutional
modernization is an iterative process which requires a number of years to
carry out.
8.      Poverty Category      The Project does not directly address poverty.
However, by lowering the tax rates, which allow higher levels of private
sector activity, it will create employment opportunities and will contribute
to increasing earning income of the poor.
9.      Environmental Aspects      The Project presents no environmental issues.
10.     Program Objective Categories      The Program Objective Category is Public
Sector Management.
11.     Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
-2 -



components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 9, 1998.
- 3 -



