Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11135-TO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 26, 1994
Infrastructure Operations Division
Occidental and Central Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - CFAF
USS1 - CFAF 580
CFAF 1.000.000 = US$1,724.13
US$1 -SDR 0.716
SDR 1 = US$1.397
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (French/Enalish)
AGETUR         Agence d'Ex6cution des Travaux Urbains (Urban Works Agency)
AJECOB         Association des Jeunes de la Communaute do BA (IB Youth Association)
APPME          Agence de Promotion des Petites et Moyennes Entreprises
CCCE           Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCGU           Comit6 de Coordination pour la Gestion Urbaine (Urban Management Steering Committee)
CDB            Comit6 de Developpement do Bo (Be Development Committee)
CEET           Compagnie d'Electricit6 du Togo (Togo Electric Power Company)
CFD            Caisse Francaise de Coop6ration Economique (French Bilateral Aid Agency)
CGI            Code General des Impots (General Tax Code)
CNUEH          Centre des Nations Unies pour les Etablissements Humains (United Nations Center for Human
Settlements)
COGESTEN       Comite de Gestion de l'Environnement (Environment Management Committee)
CONGAT         Organisation Non-Gouvemmentale Togolaise (Togolese NGO)
COSABE         Comit6 pour la Santd A BA (IB Health Committee)
DGI            Direction Generale des lmpots
DGUH           Direction Generale de l'Urbanisme et do l'Habitat (General Directorate for Urban Planning and
Housing)
EDF            European Development Fund
EMTP           Environmental Management Training Program
EU             European Union
FAC            Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Bilateral Aid)
FIES           Fonds d'lnvostissement Economique et Social
FONGTO         Federation des Organisations non-Gouvemementales du Togo
GRA-HS         Organisation Non-Gouvemementale Togolaise (Togolese NGO)
GRAD-Be        Groupe d'Action pour le Ddveloppement de BA (BA Development Group)
GTZ            Gesellschaft fOr Zusammenarbeit (German Bilateral Aid)
JBC            'Jeunesse, Batissons la Cito' (Young Builders Program)
KfW            Kreditanstalt fOr Wioderaufbau (German Bilateral Aid)
LATRICOM       Comite des Latrines Communautaires (Latrine Management Committee)
MCAC           Mission de Cooperation et d'Action Culturolle (French Cultural Cooperation Agency)
MCT            Ministry of Commerce and Transport
MDP            Municipal Development Program
MEF            MinistAre de l'Economie et des Finances (Ministry of Economy and Finance)
MEM            MinistAre do l'Equipemont et des Mines (Ministry of Equipment and Mines)
NGO            Non-governmental organization
PGU            Programme de Gestion Urbaine (Urban Management Program)
RNET           Regie Nationale des Eaux du Togo (Togo National Water Board)
SMEs           Small and Medium Enterprises
SOTOEMA        Societe Togolaise d'EnlAvement dos Ordures MonagAres (Garbage Collection Company)
STCC           Socrdtariat  Technique  du  Comite  do  Coordination  (Technical  Secretariat  of the
Steering Committee)
UNDP           United Nations Development Program



REPUBUC OF TOGO                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Contents
Pages
Credit and Project Summary
I THE SECTOR                                                                                               1
Urban Environment of Lome                                                                          2
Urban Management                                                                                   3
Community Development in Be                                                                        7
Urban Policy and Government Initiatives                                                            9
The IDA in Togo                                                                                   11
11 THE PROJECT                                                                                            12
Objectives                                                                                       12
Cost and Financing                                                                                17
Implementation                                                                                   18
Procurement and Disbursement                                                                     19
Accounting, Auditing and Reporting                                                               21
Supervision Plan                                                                                 22
Justification and Risks                                                                          23
III AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION                                                                         25
ANNEXES
A. Project Components                                                                            28
I.      Transport and Traffic                                                            28
II.     Environment and Sanitation                                                       31
III.    Community Development and Public Works                                           36
IV.     Urban Institution Building                                                       43
B. Project Cost Table                                                                            47
C. Economic Analysis of Urban Roads Rehabilitation                                               49
D. Project File Documents                                                                        52
E. Implementation Schedule                                                                       54
F. Disbursement Schedule                                                                         55
G. IDA Supervision                                                                               56
H. Performance Indicators                                                                        57
I. Environmental Impact                                                                          58
J. Studies, Consultancies, and Technical Assistance                                              59
MAPS
IBRD No. 24123. Lome Priority Road Improvement Program
IBRD No. 24124 - BA Environmental Improvement Program
This report is based on the findings of a post-appraisal mission consisting of Mmes./Messrs. Jean Mazurelle, lUrban Finance
Specialist, Task Manager); Hedi Larbi (Transport Economist); and Jenifer Cornet-Vessa (Community Participation Specialist) who
visited Togo in November 1993. The appraisal mission was led in March 1992 by the late Bernard Delaval lUrban Planner), and
included Bertrand Ah-Sue (Procurement Specialist); Mark Blackden (WID Specialist); Jerri Dell IWID Specialist); Eliane Karp
(Community Development Specialist); Jean Mazurelle lUrban FinanceSpecialist); GerhardMenckhoff (TransportSpecialist); Olivier
Bribosia (Environment Specialist, Consultant); and Cheikh Tourd (Sanitary Engineer, Consultant). Mr. Michael Cohen is the Lead
Advisor for this project, and Ms. Cynthia C. Cook and Mr. Robert Maurer are the peer reviewers for Environment and Community
Development, and Labor-based Works and Municipal Development, respectively. Mrs. Marcelle Houle provided editorial support.
Mr. Olivier Lafourcade and Mr. Alberto Harth are the Department Director and Division Chief, respectively, for the operation.
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






REPUBLIC OF TOGO
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:    Government of Togo
Beneficiaries: The Population of Lome
Executing
Agencies:    STCC and AGETUR-Togo
Credit
Amount:      US$26.2 million equivalent
Terms:       Standard IDA terms, with 40 years' maturity
Project
Description:  The project's immediate objectives are to help the Government implement its urban
development policy through: (a) the execution of priority urban works having
optimal impact on the employment and incomes of the poor; (b) the promotion of
small contractors in the construction sector; and (c) the active participation of local
residents, community groups, and NGOs in neighborhood environmental improve-
ment activities. The longer-term objectives are to: (a) strengthen the ability of
local Government to administer the city with better defined lines of authority,
responsibility and sources of revenue; (b) lay the groundwork for innovations needed
to reform the management of urban development in Togo; (c) bring about
progressive and permanent improvement in urban environmental management; and
(d) contribute to urban poverty alleviation.
The following project components would support these objectives:
(a)    a city-wide program to improve transport and traffic conditions, consisting
of labor-based works designed to be executed by small contractors (US$12.7
million, 43,7% of base costs);
(b)    a program to improve environmental and sanitary conditions of the Be
lagoon and its surrounding neighborhoods (erosion control and dredging of
the lagoon, drainage works, US$7.04 million, 25% of base costs);
(c)    a program  to support community development and the execution of
community works in the Be area (US$3.77 million, 14% of base costs); and
(d)    a program to promote institution and capacity building in the area of urban
management (US$4.75 million, 17% of base costs).
Environmental
Impact:      Concern for improving enviromnental and sanitary conditions is a major project
objective and therefore influences the design of all components. The proposed
design was reviewed during appraisal and found to be environmentally sound. The
project will make a positive overall contribution to environmental quality; any
potentially negative consequences will be addressed in the project's detailed
engineering.



Benefits:    Road, drainage and sanitation works to be carried out under the project are part of
a larger program of priority infrastructure rehabilitation. It is estimated that more
than 180,000 residents would benefit from reductions in exposure to waterborne
dise:ases. Local government capacity building would furthermore improve the
management of urban growth. The project's impact on the local economy, in
general, and on the construction industry, in particular, is expected to be immediate;
at least 1.1 million work-days of mostly unskilled jobs (90%) will de created.
Risks:       The main risk associated with project implementation is largely outside the project's
control, and concerns the relative political instability of the country, the difficult
economic situation after two years of political turmoil, and the recent decision to
devalue the CFA franc by 50%. During post-appraisal, the Government clearly
expressed its commitment to the project's objectives, emphasizing its impact on
urban poor. Other implementation risks concern the ability of the newly-created
AGETUR-Togo to execute the project, and of STCC to supervise it. These risks
would be minimized by the provision of technical assistance on a short-term basis,
as well as administrative and accounting support, and also by restricting project
execution within their absorptive capacity. AGETUR-Togo should be sustainable
beyond the project implementation period. As municipal finances improve and
community participation develops with support provided by the project, local
resources to continue these programs would increase. Also, experience with similar
agencies has shown that strong confidence in their efficiency has led to increased
external funding of their operations.
Economic Rate
-of Return:    Over 18% (urban roads rehabilitation).
Poverty
Category:    The project's impact on the local economy in general, and on the construction
industry in particular, is expected to be immediate: at least 40% of project financing
would flow directly into the local economy in the form of civil works that local
SMEs can carry out. Assuming that at least 30% of local contracts would be spent
on salaries and wages for unskilled labor by private SMEs in the construction sector,
more than US$4.5 million would benefit the poorest urban workers. This would
create 1.1 million work-days of mostly (90%) unskilled jobs. Environmental
sanitation improvements resulting from drainage works and maintenance to be
carried out under the project would benefit about 180,000 urban residents, mostly
urban poor Other community-based improvements carried out in the Be area would
benefit residents of that area for a total of 30,000 beneficiaries, also urban poor.
Esidmated Project Completion: June 30, 1999.
Maps:        IBRD 24123. Lome Priority Road Improvement Program
IBRD 24134. Be Environmental Improvement Program
AFlIN
April 26, 1994



The Sector
1.1 Togo is a small open economy, dependent pri-   production. In late 1990, Government sought a
marily on food and cash crop production (cotton,   fourth structural adjustment credit from the World
coffee and cocoa), mining (phosphates), and re-   Bank. SAC IV emphasized improvement in public
gional trade. During the 1980s, Togo undertook a    sector management, further public enterprise re-
wide-ranging economic adjustment effort aimed at   structuring and divestiture, increased budgetary al-
correcting macroeconomic imbalances resulting   locations to the social sectors, and rationalization of
from the inappropriate economic policies pursued    delivery systems. Implementation of SAC IV, how-
during the second half of the 1970s. This effort was   ever, has been hampered by political and social
supported by IDA through the first (1983) and sec-   events.
ond (1985) adjustment credits. These adjustme.it   1.4  The sociopolitical disturbances that
efforts SAC I and II, focused on reforming agricul-   started late in 1990 led (in 1991) to a slackening of
tural pricing and marketing policy, restructuring the    economic activity and depressed government rev-
public enterprise sector, and improving public re-   enue. Togo's economic and financial position weak-
source-allocation and efficiency. They were success-   ened considerably throughout 1992 and 1993, cul-
ful in reversing the negative trend in growth.  minating in the November 1992 general strike,
1.2  In 1986-87, however, the drop in the world    which lasted for about eight months. GDP declined
price of phosphate and cotton, Togo's main exports,   by 9 percent in 1992 and 13 percent in 1993, and
led to a sharp and protracted downturn in the terms    important internal and external payment arrears
of trade, to hcivy external debt-service payments,   were accumulated.
and toasurge of extra-budgetarygovernment spend-   1.5  The Togolese population has been hard-
ing. Togo resumed econiomic reform efforts in 1988    hit by the general strike. Salaries in both the private
with of a third structural adjustment program, sup-   and public sectors were not paid for several months.
ported by a third structural adjustment credit from    The educational system was brought to a hialt for six
the World Bank, debt relief from Paris and London    months. Health services were operating at a mini-
Club creditors, and multi and bilateral donor assis-   mum level and with insufficient resources. Per-capita
tance. SAC III measures included further public   consumption dropped by about 12 percent in 1992
enterprise reform, liberalization of agriculture, and    and 20 percent in 1993.
steps to create an enabling environment for the    1.6  In July 1993, the Presidential party and
private sector. Under SAC III, real growth in Togo   the opposition came to an agreement on the orga-
accelerated to an average of 5 percent a year during    nization of Presidential and legislative elections.
1988-89.                                       Presidential elections were held in August 1993,
1.3  Weaknesses in economic and financial per-   and the President was reelected. Legislative elec-
formance reemerged in 1990, however, under the   tions were held in February 1994. Following the de-
impact of late rains and a sharp drop in phosphate   cision of the members of the West Africa Monetary
l



Togo Urban Dcvelnment Prect
Union (WAMU) to realign their currency, a three-   intends to prepare the regulatory framework
year PFP program was negotiated and signed ad ref-   needed to pursue and implement decentralization.
erendum in February 1994. The goal of Govern-   In order that the project help to alleviate poverty
ment strategy during 1994-96 is to reduce internal   and improve sanitary conditions, the government
and external imbalances while promoting growth   has requested that emphasis also be put on a labor-
with equity.                                   intensive works program of road rehabilitation and
1.7 To address the economic and social issues   community development.
inherited from the socio-political crisis, Govern-
ment and IDA agreed to restructure the IDA-fi-   Urban Environment of Lome
nanced portfolio of projects. In this context,
projects under preparation were to be redesigned    1.11 Lome's urbanized area grew from 1,900 ha in
to focus on the population's emergency needs.   1970 to 9,000 per ha in 1991. Population densities
Upon resumption of World Bank operations in   in some neighborhoods of Be, Lome's old city, ex-
Togo during the last quarter of 1993, the Togo Ur-   ceed 300 persons per ha. Yet Re (see IBRD Map
ban and the Emergency Education Management   24123) is located on a narrow strip of land between
projects, were post-appraised, restructured and sim-   the Atlantic Ocean and the Be Lagoon, an almost
plified, to deal with the country's number one pri-   perfectly flat sandbar scarcely above sea level. Given
ority- employment generation.                 the natural drainage problems, the great volume of
1.8  The population of Lome has grown at 5.5   precipitation during the rainy season (0.82 m)
percent per year over the last decade and now stands   causes frequent flooding that paralyzes the down-
at about 700,000 inhabitants. Its urbanized area is  town area.
9,000 hectares but neither urban management ca-   1.12 Newer neighborhoods have now also
pacity nor physical infrastructure have kept pace with   sprung up on the Tokoin plateau north of the la-
this expansion. The country's road network has   goon, where densities can exceed 200 persons per
developed substantially but is still largely unpaved.   ha, and settlements now stretch finger-like towards
Infrastructure is deteriorating rapidly for lack of   the northeast, along major traffic arteries. The
maintenance. Sanitary conditions in much of Lome   Tokoin plateau consists of a laterite crust covering
pose serious health hazards.                  quaternary clays and is pocked with numerous de-
1.9  Conditions in Be-the oldest district of   pressions (often former clay quarries), which-given
Lome, inhabited by an estimated 180,000 people-   the lack of drainage-are virtually open sewers.
are particularly worrisome. Be stands on a flat, low-  1.13 The marshy, brackish Be Lagoon and
lying area where drainage is difficult and flooding    neighboring lowlands were cleared between 1964
frequent. The shallow wells used extensively for   and 1976 by earthworks that created three lakes: the
water supply are heavily polluted by effluent from    western lake (20 ha), the eastern lake (29 ha) and
existing pit latrines. Through the very active Be   the Be Lake (31 ha). The western and eastern lakes
Development Committee (CDB), however, a federa-   are linked by a regulating canal bordered on the
tion of community-based organizations, the inhab-   north by a drained area. A pumping station that
itants of Be have succeeded in maintaining many of   pushes overflow back to the sea was also built be-
their traditions of solidarity.               tween the eastern lake and Be Lake.
1.10 In the early 1980s, a municipality respon-  1.14 Urbanization and increased soil compac-
sible for managing a portion of the Lome urbanized   tion on the steep inclines of the northern neighbor-
area. It has thus far been unable to mobilize an ap-   hoods are now causing severe runoff erosion (and
propriate resource base, clarify administrative re-   an associated silting up) of the lakes, which lie at the
sponsibilities, or manage urban growth and services   foot of the Tokoin plateau. Garbage and some 2.5
adequatety. Although cenral government wishes to    million cubic meters of mineral and organic matter
decentralize, the weakness of the municipality   transported by runoff into the lakes is gradually fill-
makes it difficult to transfer competencies to the   ing them, threatening their delicate equilibrium and
local administration, at least in the near future. Nev-   regenerative capacity and allowing aquatic plants
ertheless, after the municipal elections the project   and mosquitoes to proliferate.
2



7&e Se
1.15 The lakes around Be are part of a river-   Board, RNET) and electricity (with the Togo Electric
lagoon complex, the functioning of which is the sub-   Power Company, CEET). Although the DGUH has a
ject of detailed studies to be financed under the    small staff, a long Togolese tradition of city planning
project (para. 2.14). Silting of the lakes, however, is   (para. 1.27)-combined with the efficiency of
causing the aquifer under the old city to rise-espe-   con tractees and a dynamic private construction in-
cially under Be, where it is practically at the surface    dustry-have so far enabled it to handle the prob-
and causes serious flooding during the rainy season.   lems of Lome's rapid physical growth, although it
Most alarming is the fact that Be's pit latrines are    needs more trained staff.
polluting the drinking water.
Urban Services and Infrastructure
Urban Management
1.18 Ineffective coordination arid control from city
The Public Sector                               management have led to poor or nonexistent main-
tenance of infrastructure, frequent flooding of the
1.16 Lome's rapid growth has not been accompa-   downtown area, and an inadequate road network.
nied by the corresponding development of its urban    The poor condition of this network slows vehicle
management capacity or of basic infrastructure and    movement and causes frequent traffic jams, hazards
services. Public sector responsibilities for urban    for pedestrians and streetside activities, huge trans-
development are currently fragmented, making all   port problems for the poor (pedestrians, cyclists,
planning and operational coordination difficult. In    users of collective taxis), and accelerated vehicle
principle (and notwihhstanding the political crisis   wear. Mass transport is provided essentially through
that stripped it of resource and management capa-   informal private initiative (taxis and mini-buses).
bilLies), the municipality of Lome has authority only    The Transportation Syndicate sets rates (CFAF 100-
within the city limits as defined in 1971. This 'old"    200 per ride, before devaluation of the CFA franc)
city accounts for about 70 percent of Lome's currexlt   and the routes. It also organizes the network of in-
population. But inadequate resources prevent the    city bus and taxi terminals, for which it is now diffi-
municipality from managing even the area entrusted    cult to fmd space in the center of the city.
to it. The fast-growing peripheral neighborhoods are  1.19 The production and distributiorn of water
managed by a Prefect who lacks the technical capac-   and electricity are contracted out to two parastatal
ity and staffing needed to carry out the tasks assigned    enterprises, the RNET and the CEET (para. 1.17).
to him. City management, planning, and implemen-   About 64 percent of the parcels in Lome are hooked
tation of investments-as well as periodic infrastruc-   up to the city watei supply, but this figure is only 18
ture maintenance-are therefore carried out mainly   percent for Be (the low rate being partially offset by
through the direct intervention of the cental admin-   the existence of public standpipes). About 73 per-
istration as resources permit.                  cent of parcels are hooked up to electricity, com-
1.17 Through its General Directorate for Ur-   pared to 25 percent for BM.
ban Planning and Housing (DGUH), the Ministry of    1.20 Contracts -with the RNET for water supply
Equipment and Mines (MEM) is responsible for ur-   to standpipes, and with CEET for public lighting, are
ban planning. The DGUH, in turn, has two Director-   made with the central Government but charged to
?.tes: Housing (responsible for the approval of land    the budget of the municipality of Lome-even
subdivision and development plans) and City Plan-   though the latter is not involved in the design of the
ning. City Planning is DGUH's operational arm in   networks or in the choice of distribution modes.
charge of relations with other public entities active in  1.21 The old city has asmall sewer system man-
the urban sphere, which include: the General Direc-   aged by RNET (30 km of 200 mm pipe converging
torate for Public Works (Roads and Transport), and    towards an 800 mm main collector) serving fewer
MEM's Directorates of Hydraulics (lagoon mainte-   than  30,000  inhabitants. Built in  1962 of
nance), Energy, Cartography and Cadastre. DGUH's   nonreinforced asbestos concrete, its dilapidated
City Planning Directorate also manages the contracts   condition and slight angles of incline result in fre-
for water distribution (with the Togo National Water   quent blockages.
3



TopO Urban Devetopment PmIed
1.22 Although some public latrines exist, hu-   level of expertise in bid preparation, detailed tech-
man waste disposal is mainly dealt with through in-   nical studies, and construction-site supervision.
dividual arrangements, if at all. Only 13 percent of
Lome's parcels have septic tanks, and only 10 per-   Land Tenure and Urban Growth
cent have water-tight tanks. The rest have pit latrines
or no sanitary facilities at all (28 percent). Waste   1.27 The growth of Lome has been characterized
from latrines is often poured directly into drainage    by a remarkable degree of control over new urban
ditches, when these exist. There are no monitored    development, exerted mainly through private initia-
sites for the deposit and treatment of sewer sludge   tives organized by DGUH. Because Lome possesses
and vacant public spaces are often used as im-   an urban master plan, as well as sectoral master plans
promptu dumping sites an6 open-air latrines.    and a procedure for DGUH to authorize land sub-
1.23 The collection and treatment of garbage    division and development against a fee, settlement
was handled by a private firm (Soci&et Togolaise    has not been anarchic. In exchange for the legaliza-
d'Enlevement des Ordures Menagees, SOTOEMA)    tion of their tenure rights and those of future lot
operating-until it went bankrupt due to the politi-   purchasers, private promoters of land developments
cal crisis-under two contracts, one with the Munici-   (who are often the former holders of traditional
pality for the area inside the city limits and the other   rights to suburban land) agree to hand over to the
with the Government for the greater metropolitan    Government half of their land for the installation of
area outside the city limits. These contracts under-   service infrastructure (water, sewers, electricity) and
went regular rate increases, and the city had no con-   the creation of reserves for future collective facili-
trol over the cost or quality of the services rendered.   ties. These housing sites are usually laid out with the
help of private surveyors.
Sma,-Scale Construction                             1.28 This pragmatic approach apparently rec-
ognizes the tenure rights of 'good faith' occupants
1.24 There are about 300 small and medium enter-   (holders of traditional rights), provided that they
prises (SMEs) in the construction business in Togo.   agree to develop their lots according to city regula-
Sixty medium-sized enterprises have a good level of   tions. Those who acquire parcels in these sites can
technical expertise and access to commercial credit.   register their rights in the Land Book. In actual prac-
The largest of them are capable of carrying out an   tice, however, the issuance of land titles is limited to
annual volume of work valued at up to CFAF 1 bil-   those owners (fewer than twenty each year) who wish
lion (about US$4 M).                            to obtain mortgages. While not comprehensive, this
1.25 These enterprises have been used for in-   land tenure approach limits conflicts between writ-
tercity road maintenance projects financed by the    ten tenure rights and traditional practice.
European Union (EU) and the World Bank and          1.29 Conflicts that do arise have to do with the
generally perform satisfactorily with regard to tech-   "rental" to new migrants of parcels within certain
nical implementation. Their main problems are   large lots in the city center. These large lots are as-
imperfect understanding of bidding documents and    signed (with title) to the undivided heirs of the tra-
technical dossiers, poor preparation of the techni-   ditional heads of villages formerly on the site, a prac-
cal aspects of the bid such as inadequate price break-   tice that is a vestige of traditional collective property.
down that lead to frequent financial underestimates    Another source of litigation has been the expropria-
in bids, and scarcity of qualified competentforemen    tion by the government (in the 1970s) of land
that leads to poor organization of construction sites.   needed for certain large public facilities. These lands
1.26 In general, because the quality of the pub-   were mostly agricultural and were expropriated with-
lic works carried out has been satisfactory, relations    out indemnification of the traditional owners. It is
between the SMEs and the Administration are good.   recommended that a specific survey of the magni-
There are, however, problems regarding delays in   tude of the problem be carried out during the pro-
contract awards and in payment for services ren-   posed Land Registry.
dered, which a-e serious for cash-strapped SMEs.    1.30 The practice of preparing land develop-
Togo has a number of engineering firms with a good    ment plans has allowed Lome's metropolitan area
4



to develop so far in a relatively organized fashion.    Council by nine conseillers d'arrondissement, Coun-
The cost of parcels (without services) in neighbor-   cilmen, chosen in a citywide election. The nine
hoods undergoing urbanization remains low (CFAF    conseillers from each arrondissement make up a
800,000, or about US$2,000, for 600 m2) compared    Conseil d'Arrondissement led by a deputy mayor
to markedly higher prices in the old city (CFAF 3 M,   with few powers. At present, these councils have only
or about US$12,000, for 600 square meter). An abun-    a consultative role. Municipal elections (for mayor
dant supply (reflected in the intense activity of real   and conseillers d'arrondissement) are scheduled for
estate agents) ensures, through a sort of 'real estate   late 1994.
democracy," a high degree of social and economic    1.34 The actual division of responsibilities be-
diversity in outlying neighborhoods. Variations in   tween the municipality and the government results
the speed of construction reflect differences in    more from a de facto situation and force of habit
household income.                               than from specific legislation. The municipality is
1.31 But in the absence of any public interven-   not involved in urban development policy-making,
tion in land tenure matters-and indeed of any    and city officials are only marginally involved in
planned facilities installation-DGUH's approach    major decisions concerning the city's future. For
has certain limitations. It is difficult to protect vacant   example, the municipality plays no role in monitor-
lots from speculation. Because of the long duration    ing urbanization, in city planning, land planning,
of construction for poorer households, informal   housing policy, or in the planning of supply networks
vacant lot development leads to excessive space con-   and social services. The annual arbitration process
sumption, low densities (20 to 30 persons per hect-   for the planning of urban investments is the respon-
are) in developing neighborhoods, and the result-   sibility of the Ministry of Plan, and the municipality
ing urban sprawl. Low population densities further   is not automatically involved in the process-despite
necessitate costly extensions of the transport and    the fact that this is the only mechanism for coordi-
service networks, partly offset by the fact that   nating the city's development. The central Govern-
wealthier households pay the costs of water and elec-   ment, on the other hand, which has rule-making and
tricity hook-ups.                               authorization functions, has no way of monitoring
what happens in the field. Since the municipality is
Lomi Municipality                                not involved in decision-making, it does not feel
bound bywhatever decisions are made. When a cen-
1.32 Lom&-like otherWestAfrican capital cities-   tral authority does have some means of intervention,
lacks the resources and autonomy to assume its ad-   its efforts in the field often result in inconsistencies
ministrative responsibilities, manage urban growth   (as in the case of individual sanitary facilities, where
and services, and mobilize funding. Governed by   the technical solutions required by legislation are too
pre-Independence legislation concerning the re-   costly for most households.)
sponsibilities of local governments, the municipal-  1.35 The city limits drawn in 1971 have not fol-
ity (in accordancewith French legislation of that era)   lowed actual growth. This has led to the existence
has broad responsibilities under strict oversight. The    of an urbanized area made up of two administratively
legislation does not mention explicit duties assigned    distinct parts: the old city (which is theoretically
to local governments but establishes, rather, their    managed by the municipality) and the fringe neigh-
general responsibility.                          borhoods (under the administrative authority of the
1.33 But if Lome has legal and financial au-   Prtfecture) where new housing developments are
tonomy under the Constitution, at the present time,   rapidly spreading. Since the Mayor does not have the
it is powerless to act from lack of financial resources.   authority to carry out essential tasks the management
It is currently administered by a Mayor appointed    of this new urban fringe is, in fact, the responsibility
by the State and a Secretary General appointed, in    of the central government. Government services now
turn, by the Mayor. Lome is divided along geo-   coexist uneasilywith those of the municipality, with
graphic lines into five arrondissements that do not   the center often demanding that the municipality
coincide with the city's social and physical structure.   undertake activities in urban areas that do not con-
Each arrondissement is represented at the City   tribute to its fiscal resources.
5



Togo Urban Development Poject
1.36 Because the municipality's rights and re-  1.39 Municipal finances also include an extra-
sponsibilities are not precisely defined and its com-   budgetary Fund for Economic and Social Investment
munity services are fragmented and disorganized,   (FIES-Fonds d'Investissement Economique et So-
task management is done on a day-to-day basis.   cial), which is fed by a port tax of US$0.34 (CFAF
There is no prioritized action plan, excessive staff   200 on every ton imported, or an average of US$0.27
(590 employees assigned to technical municipal   M/CFAF 160 M per year) and is theoretically in-
services out of a total of 780 municipal employees),  tended to finance urban investments. Since FIES's
and inadequate supervision. City services are un-   accounts are not separate, however, it was used es-
able to collect and analyze urban management   sentially to cushion part of the cumulative budget
data or identify the population's most pressing    deficit.
needs; nor can they carry out the physical and bud-  1.40 Lome's municipal budget is inadequate
getary planning needed for urban development.   essentially because not enough tax revenues feed
The municipality limits itself to the issuance of ad-   it-especially taxes from professional, real estate,
ministrative documents (identity papers, notarized    and household garbage collection. Theoretically,
documents, marriage licenses, etc.), the rental and   these taxes represent 80 percent of local revenues.
installation of funeral equipment, and minimal in-   But as now calculated and collected by government
frastructure maintenance. Street cleaning (previ-  services (the Ministry of Economy and Finance,
ously carried out in collaboration with SOTOEMA,   MEF), they provide the municipality with sporadic
a private enterprise that holds the contracts for   inflows far below their potential level. The fact that
garbage collection) is now the responsibility of   the municipality does not recuperate revenues de-
technical municipal service agencies not organized    posited on its behalf into the Treasury (and which
to do it.                                     are more or less equivalent to the amount of Trea-
sury advances it has received to allow it to function)
Municipal Finances                            is explained by the poor functioning of the standby
accounts, which are broken down in away that makes
1.37 Excluding the City Markets Board (an autono-   it difficult for the municipality to receive its due.
mous entity responsible for the upkeep of the mar-  1.41 Tax billing is also hampered by confusion
kets and the collection of market fees), the annual   as to the various responsibilities of the Directorate
budget of the city of Lome was US$2.37 M (CFAF    of the Cadastre under MEM and the Directorates of
1.375 billion) in 1990, and US$2.77 M (CFAF 1.608   Taxes and Treasury under MEF; the absence of a
billion) in 1991 (or aboutUS$4 per person peryear).   register of taxable properties, street names and
Due to the political crisis, the 1992 budget was never   house numbers, which makes it difficult to identify
prepared.                                     properties and taxpayers and to deliver tax notices;
1.38 These figures are considerably lower than    and an out-of-date 1955 tax schema for assessing
those for other West African capitals. Most of   property values, despite provisions in the General
Lome's municipal budget was earmarked for oper-   Tax Code of 1983 for pricing updating and modern-
ating expenses. Actual investment costs have been   ization. Tax lists and notices furthermore, are drawn
practically nil over the last few fiscal years, averag-   up manually, a process involving about 250,000
ing less than US$0.27 (CFAF 160 per inhabitant   handwritten pieces ofpapereach year. Since tax lists
per year from 1988 to 1991). Nearly half of the op-   are not computerized, it is impossible to identify
erating budget was devoted to garbage collection   taxpayers who own multiple properties (20 percent
US$0.9 M (CFAF 480 M) in 1990 and US$0.95 M    of property owners in Lome owe 80 percent of the
(CFAF 550 M) in 1991 for the SOTOEMA con-   property taxes).The situation isfurther aggravated
tract) and to public lighting, US$0.35 M (CFAF    bythedefactoexemptionofmanyowner-occupants
200 M in 1991). Other operating expenses in-   from paying real estate taxes because of inadequate
cluded personnel costs of about USS0.25 M (CFAF    staff and vehicles for collecting them.
140 M). Only about US$0.43 M (CFAF 250 M) re-     1.42 Themunicipality'saccountsarekeptbyan
mained to cover the management and mainte-   agent of the national Treasury and have not been
nance of urban infrastructure.                reconciled since 1974. It is thus impossible to do
6



7& Secor
annual reconciliations, budget carry-overs, or an    management, community works and projects, reli-
exact calculation of the city's financial status. Since    gious ceremonies, social activities, soccer teams,
the accounting method used is not analytical, fur-   drumming groups, youth clubs, etc.). With its nar-
thermore, it is impossible to break down revenues   row alleys and distinctive housing, Be is essentially a
and expenditures by function or department, much    village woven into the fabric of the city. It was only
less to estimate the cost of services rendered. There   incorporated into the municipality in 1971. As the
is no communication between the official authoriz-   city's third arrondissement, it contains three can-
ing expenditures (such as the mayor) and the ac-   tons, or sub-neighborhoods. Be has poor infrastruc-
countant, nor is there any exchange of information    ture (such as paved roads, drainage, sewers, and
between the municipality and the MEF. Because    drinking water) so that residents feel discriminated
local authorities are unaware of the true status of   against by the administration.
fiscal revenues and data on payment orders, cash  1.46 Be's dynamic social structure constitutes a
intake, and account balances are missing, revenue    solid basis for internal management and popular
forecasts are highly unreliable. Local authorities-    participation in neighborhood improvemenL The
and especially technical services-lack relev.,nt bud-   number and diversity of neighborhood groups or-
get and accounting information. The monitoring of   ganized spontaneously around specific neighbor-
budget commitments is centralized and individual   hood sanitation tasks is well-known and exceptional.
departments cannot monitor the drawing-down of   In Be, various local groups and management com-
credits. As for investments, most costs are scattered    mittees complement the traditional notables' asso-
throughout the municipal budget and the central   ciation and are responsible for such concrete neigh-
Government's investment budget, making it impos-   borhood improvement activities based on local
sible to assess planned versus implemented invest-   resource mobilization and cost recovery as
ments, to compare revenues and expenditures, or   precollection of garbage and management of la-
to prioritize investments more efficiently.    trines and standpipes. Since 1986, these manage-
ment committees have received technical support
Community Development in Be                    from local NGOs (Conseils Gestion Afrique Togo,
CONGAT; Groupe Recherche Architecture Habitat
1.43 One of the most underprivileged neighbor-   Social, GMA-HS; Volontaires du Progres; etc.). All
hoods in Lome is that of Be. Perhaps for this very    NGOs active in the community will be kept in-
reason, its population has managed to organize it-  formed, on an ongoing basis, of the project's goals,
self. This will facilitate community participation in   plans, and activities in Bk.
development initiatives and will provide a model for  1.47 The Comite de Developpement de Be (Be
other neighborhoods when they achieve a similar   Development Committee, CDB), whose members
degree of organization.                       include notables, administration officials and local
1.44 Be and the neighborhoods around the la-   private sector representatives, is a link between the
goon cover an area of 800 hectares (8 km x 1 km)    community and the government that can help cre-
with a population of about 120,000 people. One of   ate consensus. For purposes of the proposed project,
the most ecologically delicate areas of Lome (see   the CDB-revitalized by the emergence of new
IBRD Map 24123), Be is a favored destination for   groups-Groupe d'Action pour le Developpement
new migrants and one of the city's densest areas. It   de Be also called GRAD-Be or The Be Development
is also a transit zone from north to south and has   Group; le Comite des Femmes, or Women's Com-
wealth of informal activities (markets, artisans, trad-   mittee; and the Association des Jeunes de la
ers, etc.).                                    Communaute de Be or Youth Association, or
1.45 In the center of this area, the neighbor-   AJECOB-wilI be the community's spokesmen.
hood of old Bk, founded at the end of the 17th cen-  1.48 Traditional authorities are confident that
tury, has retained the social cohesiveness and truadi-  it will be possible to accommodate the interests of
tional structures (stability and prestige of clans and   the various associations and committees within the
of notables attending traditional chiefs) that lend    CDB. At present, four CDB management commit-
structure to community life (conflict resolution, land   tees are directly involved in development projects:
7



Top Urban Development P>jed
the Comite des Latrines Communautaires (Latrine    The Women of Bc
Management Committee, or LATRICOM) handles
the management, financing, and maintenance of   1.51 According to local surveys, knowledge of hy-
public latrines (annual revenues of CFAF 5 M, or   giene and of the relationship between unsanitary
USS20,000). The Comite pour la Sante a Be (Be   living conditions and health (especially of children)
Health Committee, or COSABE), is involved in such   is insufficient in Be. If household behavior is ex-
health projects as The Be Secondary Hospital (with   pected to be changed as an outcome of investment
assistance from the Gesellschaft fur Technische   in urban infrastructure, actions intended to improve
Zusammenarbeit or GTZ-German Bilateral Aid).   sanitary conditions (latrine construction and main-
The Standpipe Committee helps monitor the water   tenance, wells, garbage collection, gutter clearing,
service, while the Comite de Gestion de l'Environne-   etc.) should be targeted to the women.
ment (COGESTEN), an environmental manage-         1.52 While training and consciousness-raising
ment committee, is a subgroup of the youth associa-   efforts are needed to stimulate women's enthusiasm
tion, AJECOB In the medium term, decentralized   for the project's sanitation improvement objectives,
local governments should be the links between the   they could also touch on other factors influencing
authorities and such grassroots organizations. They   local lifestyles. For example, while household inte-
should be involved to help with resource mobiliza-   riors are usually clean and neat, public space (streets,
uon and the definition of action plans.        gutters, etc.) is often perceived as someone else's
(usually the government's) problem. Women's ac-
B's Expmrsed Needs.                            tivities and problems are also regarded as isolated
and individual-a perception that hampers the
1.49 In the poorer neighborhoods of Lome and of   adoption of common approaches and solutions. In
other African cities, it is unrealistic to attempt to   general, women have less education (the proportion
improve the environment without involving locals   of illiterate women is high in Be), less access to credit,
in the design, maintenance, and management of   and less representation in local decision-making
sanitation works. Representatives of all the develop-   bodies.
ment committees, associations, and NGOs active in  1.53 Although there was broad overall agree-
the neighborhood attend meetings in Be to deter-   ment on the needs of the community, a beneficiary
mine the affected population's needs, priorities, and    assessment carried out in consultation with women's
participatory dynamics. This approach allows for a    groups in Be revealed a difference of opinion be-
more precise identification of activities that can be   tween men and women as to what Be's priorities
carried out with local resources and should make it  should be. Women's groups cited men's unemploy-
possible for initiatives to respond effectively, both to    ment as their primary concern and expressed the
general needs and to those arising from the partici-   hope that labor-intensive urban civil works (planned
pation of women in neighborhood and from efforts   under the project) would provide paid work for lo-
to improve the environment.                    cal men. The priorities expressed by the women
1.50 The most urgent needs identified by the   reflect their main activities and responsibilities in the
Comite de Be require interventions that exceed the    market and the home: (a) the upgrading of Be's
scope of resources available. They include:    markets, including installation of standpipes and
(a) Improvement of sanitary conditions   latrines; (b) provision of health infrastructures; (c)
through the construction and rehabilitation of pub-   improved access to drinking water; (d) financing
lic latrines.                                  mechanisms that will help create jobs for young
(b) Expanded mechanisms for the manual   people; and (e) training in organization and man-
transport of garbage to collection points to facilitate   agement, hygiene, health, and functional literacy.
its eventual removal from Be.                  The Be Women's Committee also plans to encour-
(c) Construction of a community center.    age the creation of women's groups that could con-
(d) Miniprojects aimed at improving the qual-  tribute directly to such project works as sanitation,
iy-of-life and environment in the neighborhood.  maintenance, cleaning, and planting.
8



The &a.f
Urban Policy and Government Initiatives       to create an autonomous (Urban Works Execution
Agency) nongovernmental executing agency, the
1.54 Emerging government urban sector policy   AGETUR  (Agence d'Excution des Travaux
aims to improve Lome's economic, social, sanitary,   Urbains), or that would be similar to AGETIP in
and ecological conditions. Its short-term objectives   Senegal (Agence d'Execution desTravaux d'Interet
are the generation of employment through labor-   Public-Public Works Execution Agency) or to
intensive works in order to alleviate urban poverty   AGETUR in Benin which have delegated authority
and the promotion of small enterprise in the con-   for contracting. The creation of such an agency
struction sector. The Government's longer-term    should foster the development of simple and rapid
objectives are the strengthening of the local govern-   procedures for bidding invitations, contract awards,
ment's ability to manage urban growth, which will   and payment (from a Special Account)-crucial
mean progressive and permanent improvement in   conditions for the participation of small enterprises
urban environmental management-especially re-   with limited financial resources. Established as a pri-
garding the water cycle and household waste. The    vate, not-for-profit company, AGETUR's mission will
Government also intends to prepare reforms   be to undertake general contracting of urban infra-
needed to improve local resource mobilization and    structure works for municipalities, Ministries and
to strengthen the role played by cities in national   other entities.
development.                                      1.57 AGETURwas formally established on April
1.55 To support PMEs and employment, the    12, 1994. It will be privately managed with a remu-
government has resumed the preparation of a pro-   neration based solely on services rendered. The size
gram of infrastructure rehabilitation in Lome begun    of its staff (recruited on fixed-term contracts) will
in 1988. Its objectives are complementary. the cre-   be adapted to the volume of activity executed. In
ation of the physical conditions necessary for re-   June 1994, AGETUR will launch a pilot project of
newed economic activity and private investment af-  labor-intensive urban road rehabilitation financed
ter CFAFdevaluation; improved environmental and    under IDA-Credit 1861-TO (Transport Rehabilita-
sanitary conditions in the dense neighborhoods of   tion Project).
Lomn, and especially Be; and the creation of jobs  1.58 AGETUR will hire and supervise consult-
through the promotion of local contractors and the    ants for the preparation of technical and bidding
use of labor-intensive techniques. This program    documents. Itwill issue the call forbids, evaluate and
served as the basis for the identification and evalua-   adjudicate these bids, and sign a contract with the
tion of priority activities to be carried out under the    contractor. Using consultants and its own engineers,
proposed projecL Other activities are being planned   it will supervise the actual works, evaluate progress
with the help of various donors: drainage of rain   and make payments to the contractors. After the
water in the Tokoin-Enyonam neighborhood, and   final reception it will hand over the works to the
sanitation studies in four secondary cities with the    Municipality of Lome for operation and mainte-
help of the United Nations Development Program    nance. AGETUR's operations will be regulated by
(UNDP); drainage of rain water in the Tokoin-Tako   its Manual of Procedures which sets out each step
and Nukafu neighborhoods with the help of the    of the process in detail. Each year, a program of
Fonds d'Aide et de Coopration (French Bilateral   projects will be established and agreed with the
Aid-FAC); a sanitation project in the neighbor-   Bank. Regular progress reports will be submitted to
hood adjacent to the Be secondary hospital, with   the Bank and to Government Independent audits
GTZ assistance.                               will be carried out every six months.
1.59 AGETUR is expected to succeed because
Urban Works Execution Agency (AGEITUR)        itwill have private sector management expertise and
experience in public works contracting. It will con-
1.56 In order to facilitate the award of civil works   tract with firms (and hence with labor) on an "as
contracts to local SMEs (small- and medium-sized    needed' basis, avoiding the bloated payrolls com-
enterprises), the Togolese authorities have decided    mon to public agencies. Perhaps most importantly,
9



Togu Uvhan Dvelopmcns Phjed
its private legal status will allow it to bypass the pub-   esse, Batissons la Cite, JBC" (Young Builders) was
lic sector's cumbersome contracting and payment   active as a pilot phase from November 1991 until
procedures mandated by the public sector. AGETUR    March 1992 to mobilize the unemployed youth of
should be able to do this moreover, while maintain-   Lome's poorer neighborhoods. By carrying out
ing a higher quality of service and discipline than is   works of general benefit, this operation was intended
typically found in public agencies.          to facilitate the transition to democracy by limiting
1.60 It is expected that the creation of AGETUR    the risks of social unrest and its accompanying eco-
wil stimulate the localprivate sectorwithaminimum    nomic, social and civic fallout.
of technical assistance. This assistance, moreover,  1.64 Through Young Builders, a team of 200
will be provided mainly by the other agencies in the   young people under the direction of SOTOEMA
region enhancing the south-south transfer of exper-   (Societe Togolaise d'Enlevement des Ordures
tise. Workers who spend their wages close to home   Menageres, The Garbage Collection Company)
will have an important multiplier effect on a severely   cleaned up and collected garbage on two of the
depressed economy. Private contracting agencies   major traffic arteries of Lome (budget CFAF 25 M,
demonstrate the benefits of applying private sector   or US$100,000). Although the operation was success-
practices topublic sector projects. Theywill comple-   ful in terms of its physical achievements and the
ment other government privatization efforts and    enthusiasm of the young workers, it ran into prob-
facilitate debate on a number of related issues in the   lems as a foreign private enterprise attempting to
urban, water supply and transport sectors.    monitor local young people.
1.65 In its second phase launched in early
Small and Medium-StzeEnterprise Develpment   1992 with a French Aid budget of CFAF 150 M
(about US$600,000), Young Builders was entrusted
1.61 In addition to the establishment of AGETUR,   to NGOs already involved in social, educational,
the French Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Eco-   and economic initiatives with Lome's young
nomique (CCCE) has indicated a desire to support   people. NGO workers were already well-known to
the creation of another agency for the promotion   the youth and accepted by them. Planned activities
of SMEs (Agence de Promotion des Petites et   included the collection and transportation of gar-
Moyennes Entreprises-APPME). This agency   bage to SOTOEMA's pick-up points, pot-hole
would have the task of training SMEs in internal   repair, the cleaning and repair of drainage ditches,
management and in techniques of responding effec-   construction and rehabilitation of standpipes, gar-
tively to bidding invitations issued byAGETUR. Ex-   bage dumps, market stalls, schools, dispensaries,
periences of similar agencies in Senegal, Benin,   latrines, the installation of small urban amenities,
Burkina Faso, and Mali have shown that they can be   and tree planting on the banks of the lagoon.
powerful instruments with important spin-off effects   Currently suspended, the program is scheduled
on project implementation.                    to resume once political stability returns to the
1.62 Other initiatives underway or in prepara-   country.
tion include a UNDP interregional program (INT/  1.66 Implemented with the help of various do-
89/021) aimed at creatingjobs in urban works pro-   nors (such as the Programme de Gestion Urbaine
grams by making more efficient use of local re-   PGU, whose regional office is in Accra and the
sources. The EU has already involved local SMEs in    Municipal Development Program MDP), regional
interurban road maintenance financed by the Eu-   programsand activities planned under the proposed
ropean Development Fund (EDF). It is hoped that   project would make it possible for Togolese authori-
both these agencies will contract for the services of   ties to design, prepare, and undertake urban reform.
AGETUR.                                       The PGU (supported by UNDP, the World Bank and
GTZ) has already announced its availability and
Young Builders and Other Urban Pograms       particular interest in community actions aimed at
improving the environment through. (The project's
1.63 An initiative of the French Mission de Coop6ra-   launching workshop will address the question of
tion et d'Action Culturelle (MCAC)-dubbed "Jeun-   Donor coordination.)
10



7h7 S,dor
The IDA in Togo                                 project. A pilot operation of labor-based urban
works, which will be financed under the ongoing
1.67 In the areas of transport, energy, telecommu-   Togo Transport Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 1861-
nications, and water, IDA operations in Togo cover   TO), is expected to start in June 1994 (para. 1.57).
a range of adjustment and investment operations    The proposed project could be followed by a mu-
supporting the productive sector, agriculture (8    nicipal development project to support decentrali-
credits totalling 22 percent of IDA's commitments   zation and strengthen the country's main urban
in Togo), and economic infrastructure (11 credits,   centers and market towns.
totalling 29 percent of IDA commitments). IDA as-  1.69 For some time, IDA's portfolio of projects
sistance also includes aid to education, grassroots   outside the urban sector in Togo has faced generic
initiatives and private enterprise. New operations are    problems relating to country's lack of counterpart
planned in the areas of health, rural credit, environ-   funding, trained civil service staff, and adequate
mental improvement, water supply, and sanitation.   procurement and disbursement practices. These
1.68 Although this project would be IDA's first   problems are now being addressed by increasing
urban operation in Togo, lessons from similar IDA-   IDA's financing share to 100 percent (on an excep-
financed projects in Senegal and Benin (and from    tion basis); developing a program of focused, short-
the Young Builders) a FAC-sponsored Urban Em-   term technical assistance projectsforkeysectors;and
ployment Program in Lom6 (para. 1.63) has been    streamlining and delegating procurement-all mea-
incorporated into the design of the proposed    sures being proposed for the urban operation.
'I



The Project
2
2.1 TheProjectwasidentifiedin 1987,butitwasnot   providing employment and incomes for the poor
until 1990 that the Government requested our help.   and improvement of traffic conditions; (b) the pro-
The initial feasibility study for the Project was car-   motion of small enterprise in the construction sec-
ried out in 1990/1991 and the appraisal was com-   tor; and (c) the active participation of local residents,
pileted in March 1992. However, due to the political   grass roots groups, and NGOs in activities to improve
crisis which affected the country for 18 months, the   the neighborhood environment. The project will
project was put on hold until the post-appraisal mis-   seek to achieve longer-term objectives: (a) strength-
sion was conducted in November 1993. During this   ening the ability of local government to manage
post-appraisal mission, an agreement was reached    urban growth through a studies component; (b)
with the Togolese Government on the following    permanently improving urban environmental man-
decisions:                                    agement, especially the water cycle and household
* The Project would be refocused to better   waste; (c) helping to prepare reforms in local re-
address the urban economic situation and, to that   source mobilization to strengthen the cited role in
effect, the employment generation component   national development; and (d) alleviating urban
would become its key feature.                 poverty.
* The Project's institutional setting would be  2.3  Because it would be unrealistic to try to
s.implified to facilitate its implementation in a weaker   address all aspects of urban development under a
administrative context.                       single (and first) project, the proposed project
* The Community Participation Component   should be considered a first step to test the ap-
would be implemented by an International NGO    proaches that would fulfill sectoral strategy goals.
which would capitalize on its previous experience    This initial approach will need to be followed by
with the inhabitants of BM.                   other projects as the implementation capacity ofthe
* The launching of AGEIUR Togo would be   various actors improves.
rescheduled and an interim director would be hired  2.4  As proposed, the project includes compo-
to start the first phase of labor intensive works.  nents to improve transport and traffic conditions
and urban environmental and sanitary conditions
Objectives                                    in Lome as well as support community develop-
ment and works for studies to support policy devel-
2.2 The project's immediate objective is to help re-   opment and urban institution building. Project-
instate economic growth hindered by the political   supported policy development would lay the
turmoil which has affected the country for the past   foundations for further reform in the urban sector.
18 months through: (a) the execution of priority   This project would be implemented entirely in
urban works whose optimal impact on unemploy-   greater Lom6-Togo's largest concentration of
ment will be the intensive use of unskilled labor   population.
12



The PiM
Transport and Traffic                          vide for a breakdown by lots (into contracts of
CFAF 10 to 50 M). Contract for technical specifica-    v
2.5  The transport and traffic component is de-   tions will be made compatible with the abilities of
signed to improve vehicular traffic and transport in   local contractors.
the poorer neighborhoods (access roads, mass tran-  2.10 In addition to these road and drainage
sit, and bicycle traffic). It includes the improvement   works, the project will provide for road-safety im-
and rehabilitation of the existing road network,   provements and ad hoc interventions. Arrangements
which would improve through-traffic (benefiting    on the carrying out of the road safety sub-component
both the national and local economies) and access   will be settled six months after submission of the final
to public amenities (markets, bus and taxi terminals,   report of the urban transport study. A traffic manage-
the downtown area), it would also create conditions   ment plan (see Annex A) will be prepared, as well as
more conducive to greater population density in    a list ad hoc traffic improvements to be at the initia-
peripheral neighborhoods (bycreating roads to ease   tive on the Municipality. All urban secondary and
center-city congestion, major radial roads, access to   tertiary infrastructure improved under the project
suburbs, and segments of the second ring road).   will be transferred to the Municipality, which will
Rehabilitation of the drainage system would also   then be responsible for its maintenance.
improve Lome's environment and hygiene, upgrad-   2.11 During the life span of the project, the
ing the living conditions.                     Central Government will take all necessary actions
2.6  A program of selected priority works has   and measures to ensure that the revenues from prop-
been defined and includes the surfacing of about 10   erty and professional taxes to the Municipality of
km of currently unpaved urban roads that lack ad-   Lome increase by 5 percent per year. The contribu-
equate drainage (see Annex A and IBRD Map   tion of the government to the financing and main-
24124). Priority was assigned on the basis of a mini-  tenance of infrastructure will be reviewed during
mum economic rate of return (over 18 percent),   negotiations. Throughout project implementation,
taking into account not only vehicle operating costs   the Bank's approval of the annual works programs
but also the impact of roads on the local economy    (para. 2.9) will depend on the availability of this
and immediate environment.                     contribution.
2.7 Roadways will be between seven and nine
meters wide (six meters for vehicular traffic, the rest   Environment and Sanitation
for bike paths whose widths will be determined by
the volume of bicycle traffic). Every 100 to 200    2.12 This component aims at ensuring progressive
meters, the roads will widen by two meters on either   and permanent improvement in urban environmen-
side to allow for bus and taxi stops.         tal-management, especiaOlywith regard to the water
2.8  Works will be carried out by labor-inten-   cycle and the disposal and treatment of household
sive means. The road pavement will be constructed    and industrial waste. The project will concentrate
using interlocking concrete blocks set down on a    first on improving the environment of Be Lagoon
sandbed and a foundation base about 30 cm thick.   and its adjacent neighborhoods (800 hawith 120,000
Sidewalks of 1.5 to 3 meters wide will be constructed   inhabitants), where according to surveys and socio-
of plates placed on a sand and foundation base about   logical studies, conditions are the worst but popu-
15 cm thick. Drainage will be achieved by means of   lar participation is the most likely. This component
simple gutters connected to larger collectors. The    (Annex A and IBRD Map 24124), will include:
rest of the right-of-way will be either reprofiled or  (a) Antierosion works to protect the northern
stabilized with cement, and trees will be planted at   banks of the lagoon;
regular intervals.                                (b) Improvement of the southern banks;
2.9  In consultation with IDA, the Comite de   (c) Partial dredging of the Be lake;
Coordination de la Gestion Urbaine (CCGU) will    (d) Drainage of two pilot zones in the old Be
schedule annual work loads to be carried out by la-   neighborhood; and
bor-intensive means. The calendar for the issuance  (e) Disposal and treatment of household and
of bid invitations and execution of works will pro-   industrial waste.
13



Togo Urban Devclopmmnt Pn*d
The CCGU will schedule activities related to improv-   nical and sociological studies conducted in collabo-
ing access to public latrines in Be will be carried out   ration with the Bank Poverty and Social Policy Pro-
under the community works component (see para.   gram and was confirmed by the government prior
2.21 below).                                   to negotiations. Related activities carried out under
2.13 In consultation with IDA, annual work   the community works component (paras. 2.18) will
load, to be carried out by SMEs using labor-inten-   allow the population of the project area to assume
sive means. The use of heavy earthmoving equip-   responsibility for these works from design to main-
ment has not been ruled out, however, for dredg-   tenance, and to participate actively in neighborhood
ing the lagoon.                                sanitation and household waste management.
2.14 The impact of lake dredging on the aqui-  2.16 The proposed component also includes a
fer and on the drainage and flooding in affected    detailed audit of the current management of house-
neighborhoods will be evaluated on the basis of a    hold and industrial waste and sewage sludge. This
site analysis of tidal dynamics and the hydrogeology    audit will help identify actions needed to improve
and interrelationships of the aquifer and of in- and    the currcnt situation (including costs, modes of
outflow mechanisms. An analysis of mineral runoff   execution, and financing), as well as the scope for
from the north and the nature and volume of sedi-   creating activities for small enterprises (pre-
ments should make it possible to gauge the rate of   collection, sorting, removal, dumping, treatment,
siltation of the lagoon. This analysis will be accom-   recycling, composting, soil amendment, market
panied by a detailed hydrogeological survey of the    gardening, etc.).
physical, chemical, bacteriological and algal quali-
ties of the water in the system (and seasonal varia-   Community Develmmet
tions therein) and of the quantitative, qualitative,
and historical characteristics of the aquifer under   2.17 The program tosupportcommunityparticipa-
the city rests. The delicate balance of the lagoon    tion will aim at ensuring grass-roots involvement in
and its self-regulating mechanisms-now threat-   the design, implementation, management, and sub-
ened by mineral and organic runoff from nearby    sequent maintenance of operations intended to
neighborhoods-will be preserved by such comple-   improve the sanitary, social, and economic environ-
mentary measures as antierosion works (on the    ment of local neighborhoods. These operations
banks of the lagoon) and cross drains (at the base   correspond to demands and expectations already
of the street slopes (see Annex A). The Togolese   expressed bythepopulation (para. 1.30),and should
authorities (CCGU in liaison with the National Di-  therefore help to ensure that programs are taken in
rectorate for Sanitation and the University of   hand and managed effectively.
Benin) should confirm  that it will monitor        2.18 The component includes the following
changes-before dredging commences and every   complementary facets:
six months after its completion-for the function-  (a) A training program in environmental man-
ing of the lagoon system, in the sanitation mecha-   agement.
nisms installed, and in the lake water's physical,  (b) ImprovementofsanitaryconditionsinBe
chemical, and biological characteristics.      through construction of public latrines to be man-
2.15 In pilot zones, test operationswill attempt   aged committees;
to lower the aquifer with massive plantings that will  (c) Construction of a community center, to be
exploit the absorptive properties of vegetation, un-   used for association meetings, community and so-
derground agricultural-type drains, and improved    cial events, and as a training center;
surface drainage. The impact of these various tech-  (d) Mini-projects aimed at improving the qual-
niques on the aquifer and on the functioning of the   ity of life and the environment in the neighborhood.
lakes will be monitored regularly during project   Theseworks, too,will be executed by labor-intensive
implementation in order to identify those interven-   means, and local participation -will help ensure that
dor-s most suitable for extension to the entire project   they address neighborhood priorities.
area. The choice of the old Be neighborhood for    2.19 Training in environmental management.
these test operatdons was the result of detailed tech-   In order to promote maximum popular participa-
14



The Pmjad
tion in the definition and execution of community   nance of public latrines which will be financed and
works, and especially in the proper long-term man-   built only after users have committed themselves to
agement of the facilities provided, a training pro-   these duties.
gram in environmental management (EMTP) will      2.23 Experience with other municipal latrines
be carried out by CARE Togo, a local NGO with   (para. 1.22) has shown that use is directly linked to
international experience. The Terms of reference   facilities' location, architectural features, mainte-
of CARE Togo will be reviewed during negotiations.   nance, and management. The location and architec-
Signature by the government (CCGU) of the agree-   tural design of the latrines therefore, must take into
ment with CARE Togo for implementing the EMPT    account such issues as social function, ease of clean-
in the Community participation component, will be   ing, and proximity to showers and laundering facili-
a condition of Credit effectiveness.          ties. These proposed public latrines will be equipped
2.20 This training program will aim at ensur-   with septic tanks and anaerobic filters, and effluent
ing that men and women in the community respon-   will be treated by oxidation ponds or sand filtration
sible for environmental management develop the    (depending on location), as described in Annex A.
organizational, communications, and management   Theywill be designed to allow their subsequent con-
skills required to carry out their responsibilities. It   nection to a network of small-diameter sewers (which
will cover: (a) the design and preparation of project   have low construction and maintenance costs).
teaching materials adapted to the needs of the    2.24 The community center will be used for lo-
largely illiterate population of the pilot area; (b)   cal association meetings and for community and
the training of NGO trainers and of group leaders   social events. It will also be the center for training
(mainly female) chosen by the community (using   sessions to be carried out by CARE Togo and local
teaching materials developed under the project   community trainers.
and a flexible and participatory approach based on
adult education principles); (c) training these train-  2.25 MinirojectsforCommunitylmprovemenL Dis-
ers, mainly women in communication and organi-   cussions with community groups should uncover a
zational skills, who will have the tasks of communi-   variety of micro-projects for the improvement of
cating, exchanging information, and mobilizing    priority areas, which the project will support. These
groups in support of project activities, bringing    might include:
technical training and support to local manage-   (a) Small-scale neighborhood works (such as
ment committees in the identification, design,   improving local road and drainage networks, evacu-
implementation, and management of micro-   ating household waste water: improving the drink-
projects; and (d) this program also includes con-   ing water supply, constructing pedestrian walkways,
tinuous monitoring and evaluation of the sociologi-  small plazas, and public spaces: planting vegetation.)
cal and environmental impact of project activities  (b) Improving conditions for economic activ-
on the neighborhood.                           ity (such as rehabilitating existing markets, and cre-
ating zones for artisanal activity, composting, and
2.21 Improved Sanitation. Efficient removal of   market gardening.)
human waste is essential for neighborhood sanita-  (c) Providing organizational support for the
tion, yet conventional sewers would be prohibitively   creation of jobs in the informal sector and manage-
expensive for most residents and would pose great   ment training (in such enterprises as precollection
technical difficulties. Because individual latrines   of householdwaste, composting of organic material,
with watertight tanks are an option only for the    market gardening, fish-farming, and recycling).
more affluent minority, the proposed solution is a  2.26 The identification and implementation of
decentralized system of public latrines. A study to   each miniprojectwill be the responsibility of a local
be flnanced under the project will also examine    management committee and will be accompanied
ways to organize the emptying of private septic   by a micro-project contract (the contents of which
tanks (Annex A).                               are briefly described in Annex A.) This contractwill
2.22 The people of Be will participate in the    spell out thejustification of the operation envisaged,
construction, operation, management, and mainte-   its estimated costs (up to a ceiling of CFAF 20 M),
15



Togo Urban Development P*ed
its intended benefits, the beneficiary population's  2.31 The main objective of these studies is to
contributions to the initial investment which must   help Togo prepare a national urban strategy to: (a)
be least 10 percent of the investment's total cost,   expand Lome Municipality'sjurisdiction to include
mode of execution, and responsibility for operation   the entire urban area; (b) define the mandates and
and maintenance. The miniproject contract will be    coordinate the activities of the various actors (State,
signed by the local management committee and    decentralized administrations, contractees, city ser-
submitted through the CDB to the CCGU. After   vices, firms); (c) expanding the role of the private
approval by the Comite de Be and the CCGU, a pro-   sector; (d) improve the Municipality's managerial
gram of proposed micro-projects will be submitted    capacities especially with regard to city services and
quarterly to IDA. Contractsforworksassociatedwith   infrastructure maintenance; (d) clear up Lome's
micro-projects on this list will be awarded by    Municipalityfinancial accountsandgive it the means
AGETUR after Local Competitive Bidding.       to mobilize and manage its own resources and the
2.27 The presence of the Mayor of Lome in the   resources it needs to plan its own interventions to
CCGU will ensure that no conflict arises between the   fulfill these responsibilities; (e) improve the
Be Development Committee and the elected munici-   Municipality's ability especially through the tax base
pal representatives of Be. A standard contract model   (property and professional taxes) so that revenues
will be examined during project negotiations. For-  increase at 5 percent a year during the lifespan of
mal approval of the use of this model contract by   the projecL
CDB and CCGU will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.                                    2.32 Decentralizing Urban Management. Since
2.28 As the link between the local management   Togo is now seeking to decentralize urban manage-
committee and the CCGU, the CDB will play an    ment decision making, the project will finance stud-
important information, outreach, coordination, and   ies to help define the broad outlines of a national
supervisory role. Subject-matter specialists and train-   urban development policy, interministerial coordi-
ers from CARE-Togo will help the local management   nation, and general planning and programming. A
committees and the CDB to identify, define, imple-   hasty transfer of responsibility without the prior es-
ment and manage each miniproject.              tablishment of the necessary financial, technical, and
2.29 The statutes of the CDB have been offi-   administrative tools would only set the municipal
cially recognized by the Ministry of Territorial Ad-   Government up for failure.
ministration. It is anticipated that implementation  2.33 To improve coordination between central
of miniprojects requiring popular participation will   and municipal authorities in the strengthening of
be very gradual so that the community's degree of   the Lomc Municipality (Annex A), as a condition of
commitment and of CDB's effectiveness can be    Crediteffectiveness. Each groupwillbe assigned one
monitored. Gradual implementation will also make    of the following tasks: developing proposals for the
it possible to ensure that the approach is constantly   reworking of territorial structures and the redraw-
being adjusted to meet the people's priorities in Be   ing of city boundaries, preparing a new communal
neighborhoods. To evaluate the impact of project   code of legislation defining the relationship between
activities, CARE-Togo will conduct baseline and fol-   central and local governments, formulating propos-
low-up studies of the socioeconomic and ecological   als for streamlining the city's financial management,
characteristics.                               and formulating proposals for improving tax collec-
tion and direct-service cost recovery.
Urban Policy Deuelopment and Institution Building  2.34 Implementation of the action plan for
strengthening the Municipality of Lome will be
2.30 Theprojectwillsupportstudiesinurbanpolicy   evaluated during a midterm review of the project
development and institution building. To ensure   and compared to objecties, with regard to, improve-
that these studies will, in fact, be implemented. They    ment of local finances, financing of urban services
will be conducted under foreign short-term con-   (particularly infrastructure maintenance), and use
sultancies supervised by the STCC, which will be    of private enterprises and neighborhood groups to
partially staffed by long-term local consultants.  provide urban services.
16



2.35 Theproposedpolicyandinstitutionbuild-   ture rehabilitation, environmental management,
ing studies (the Terms of Reference to be prepared    community participation, support to SMEs, munici-
by the two working groups) will focus on:         pal institution-building, improvement of local fi-
(a)  Revision of Lome's city boundaries, adop-    nances, and monitoring and evaluation of the social,
tion of a new communal code defining city and cen-    economic and environmental impacts of the project.
tralgovernmentresponsibilityandadjustmentofthe       2.38 Other tasks which could be assigned to
ministerial tutelage function;                    STCC are preparation of an urban development
(b) Adoption of a city contract defining the    strategy and a program of priority investments for
roles of various actors in the urban sector and the    other Togo cities, coordination and monitoring of
phasing out of force account;                     data on the status of urbanization, examination of
(c)  The use of private firms for urban infra-   the consistency (or lack thereof) between various
structure maintenance;                            urban initiatives (transport and traffic plans, master
(d)- Support for grassroots initiatives at the    plan for Lome, etc.), and coordination of urban
neighborhood level;                               property and cartographic information.
(e) Reorganization of the financial and the
technical services of the Municipality of Lome;   Cost and Fmancing
(f)  Elimination of the city's deficit, reactiva-
tion of the FIES (para. 1.39), reform of advance ac-    PEojed Cost
counts, and the application of a new budget man-
agement system;                                   2.39 Total project cost is estimated at US$29 M
(e)  Mobilization of new financial resources    (CFAF 16.9 billion) netof taxes and duties (table 1).
through improved collection of business and prop-   The project will be executed over a five-year period
erty taxes and a revised system for financing house-   from 1995 to 1999. (Detailed project costs are pro-
hold garbage collection.                          vided in Annex B.) Price contingencies are based on
the following annual inflation rates:
2.36 Management of Urban Growth. The Togolese
authorities have decided to create an Urban Man-                     1995 1996 1997 1998 1999
agement Steering Committee (Comite de Coordi-   Foreign exchange     3.4  3.4  3.4  3.4  3.4
nation pour la Gestion Urbaine or CCGU) charged    Local currency    15.0  10.0  7.0  5.0  5.0
with implementing the Government's urban-strat-
egy, and in particular its policy of decentralization.
The CCGU will include representatives of the main    Table 1 Estimated project costs
ministries involved in the affairs of the Municipality    ( iUi)
of Lome (Planning, Interior, Finance and Equip-     sd       :               Foregn  Tota cost(%)
ment), the Mayor of Lome, and a representative of
the Comite de Be (CDB). Other actors in the urban    Transport and traffi4c
.  .              ~~~improvement       5.32   4.01   9.33    43
sector (Federation des organisations nongouverne-   Improvement of
mentales du Togo (FONGTO), RNET, CEET, etc.)    environmental and
may be invited to participate in those aspects of    sanitary conditions  2.83   2.36   5.19    25
CCGU's activities that concern them.              Support to community
2.37 The CCGU wili be aided in its efforts by a  participation in Be  1.46   1.35   2.81    14
Technical Secretariat in the Ministere de l'Equipe-    Urban institution
ment et des Mines (MEM), Secretariat Technique du  building            0.78   2.95   3.74    18
Comite de Coordination or (STCC), that will gude    Total base cost   10.39  10.67  21.07  100.0
.o.itb de Coord.nation or (STCC), that will guide    Physical contingencies  1.04   1.07   2.11
CCGU decisions regarding the preparation and    Price contingencies    3.75   1.31   5.06
implementation of sectoral policy. The Secretariat   Project preparation
will be responsible, in particular, for guiding and co-    facility    0.00   0.75   0.75
ordinating most general studies on the design of the    TOTAL PROJECT
technical and urban planning aspects of infrastruc-    COST           15.18  13.81  29.00
17



Togo Urban Deuelepmcnt Picet
Base costs are inJanuary 1994 prices, as determined    studies, bidding invitations, contract awards, con-
by the appraisal mission on the basis of recent con-   tractors payments, and works supervision.
tracts signed for similar civil works.               2.43 AGETUR will be formally established in
April 1994, it will be privately managed, with remu-
Financing Plan                                    neration based solely on services rendered. The size
of its staff (recruited on fixed-term contracts), will
2.40 Over the life of the project, the proposed IDA    be adapted to the volume of activity executed. The
credit of US$26.2 M will finance, on average, 90 per-   creation of such an agency should foster the devel-
cent of the project's cost net of taxes and duties    opment of simple and rapid procedures for bidding
(table 2). In view of its economic situation, Togo was   invitations, contract awards, and payment (from a
granted 100 percent of disbursement rates until    SpecialAccount)-crucialconditionsforthepartici-
December 31, 1996. IDA, therefore, will cover ap-    pation of small enterprises with limited financial
proximately US$12.30 M in foreign costs (47 per-   resources.
cent) and US$13.90 M in local costs (53 percent).    2.44 AGETUR will hire and supervise consult-
Because of Togo's severe budgetary constraints,    ants for the preparation of technical and bidding
government's contribution is limited to US$2.4 M.   documents. Itwill issue the call for bids, evaluate and
Beneficiaries (The Municipality of Lome and Be    adjudicate these bids, and sign a contract with the
residents) will contribute financing for infrastruc-    contractor. Using consultants and its own engineers,
ture development, maintenance, and solid waste   it will supervise the actual works, evaluate progress
collection up to US$0.38 M. Other donors have in-   and make payments to the contractors. After the
dicated their interest in financing complementary   final reception, it will hand over the works to the
activities, which would be closely coordinated under    Municipality of Lome for operation and mainte-
the projecL                                       nance. AGETUR's operations will be regulated by
its Manual of Procedures, which sets out each step
Implementation                                    of the process in detail. Each year, a program of
projects will be established and agreed with the
2.41 Under this project, works are to be labor-inten-    Bank. Regular progress reports will be submitted to
sive and, to the extent possible, carried out by local   the Bank and to Government. Independent audits
SMEs.                                             will be carried out every six months.
2.42 The Togolese government has appointed
an autonomous agency-L'Agence d'Execution    Projed Organization
des Travaux Urbains, or AGETUR-to ensure con-
tracts management including detailed engineering    2.45 Overall project coordination will be supervised
by the CCGU. The Togolese authorities have also
Table 2 Summary Financing Plan                    decided to create an urban management steering
(US$ tho-ands)                                    committee, the Comite de Coordination pour la
)4jed omponents   lDA crdit Cout.   B    To1      Gestion urbaine, or CCGU, charged with imple-
Transport and traffic  11,147  1521.0   0.0 12,668.9    menting the Government's urban strategy-and in
Environment and                                   particular its policy of decentralization. The CCGU
sanitation        6,342  705.0   0.0  7,047.9    will include representatives of the main ministries
Be community                                     involved in the affairs of the Municipality of Lome
participation     3,198  202.5 377.0  3,777.1    (Planning, Interior, Fmance and Equipment), the
Urban institution
building          4,756    0.0   0.0  4,756.0    Mayor of Lome, andarepresentativeoftheComite
Project preparation                               de BM  (CDB). Other actors in the urban sector
facility            750    0.0   0.0   750.0   (Fed&ration  des organisations  nongouverne-
TOTAL PROJECT                                     mentales du Togo (FONGTO), RNET, CEET, etc.)
COST             26,183  2,428 377.0 29,000.0    may be invited to participate in those aspects of
Percent of total    90.3    8.4   1.3   100.0    CCGU's activities that concem them.
18



The Projedt
2.46 The CCGU will be aided in its efforts by a   Projc*t Implmentation
Technical Secretariat Secretariat Technique du
Comite de Coordination, or STCC, in the Ministere   2.49 STCC and AGETUR will be responsible for
de l'Equipement et des Mines (MEM) thatwill guide   project implementation. On behalf of CCGU, STCC
CCGU decisions regarding the preparation and    will identify design, justify and program actions to
implementation of its sectoral strategy. The STCC,   be carried out under the project. AGETUR will
however, will handle the project's day-to-day man-   handleworksoversight. The two agencieswill handle
agement. It will be in charge of centralizing infor-   procurement, contract management, and disburse-
mation on urban development and will call in con-   ment of project funds.
sultants and consulting firms. To ensure efficient  2.50 STCC will be responsible for hiring con-
project start-up and execution, STCC will have at   sultants for feasibility studies, technical assistance,
least one senior government staff member fully con-   training and supervision related to the implemen-
versant with Bank procurement and disbursement   tation of the project's various components.
procedures. The establishment of the STCC with   AGETUR will be responsible for the contracting of
adequate qualified staff will be confirmed by the   civil works and related engineering studies and
government prior to negotiations.             works supervision.
2.47 The STCC will coordinate studies and     2.51 Two Special Accounts will be opened for
such social, economic, financial, urban planning,   the use of these agencies to allow rapid payment of
and technical interventions as are necessary to the   invoices received from SMEs and local consultants.
project. It will supervise the technical design and    Local contribution to the costs of these works will
city planning aspects of infrastructure rehabilita-   be deposited in the project account of AGETUR
tion (draft project level), environmental manage-   (after approval of the annual work program by
ment, community participation, support to SMEs,   CCGU, para. 2.48). The corresponding bank state-
measures to strengthen municipal government, im-   ment will be submitted to IDA at the same time as
provement of local finances, and the monitoring   the selectedwork program.These arrangementswill
and evaluation of the project's social, economic,   be agreed upon at negotiations and will be spelled
and environmental impacts.                    out in the Credit Agreement.
2.48 The key responsibility for identifying   2.52 The draft of the subsidiary agreement to
needed operations, however, will rest with the Min-   be signed between the Borrower and AGETUR-
istry of Equipment and Mines (para. 1.17) for pri-   Togo, will be reviewed during negotiations, with sig-
mary infrastructure, with the City of Lome for   nature a condition of effectiveness. An agreement
secondary infrastructure, and with the Be Develop-   satisfactory to IDA, the Borrower, CDB, and the
ment Committee for tertiary infrastructure and    Municipality of Lome regarding the contribution by
neighborhood improvement activities. STCC will   CDB and the Municipality of Lome to the project's
assist the Municipality to set up a planning unit that   implementation will also be a condition of Credit
would eventually take responsibility for infrastruc-   effectiveness. Government would have to agree to
ture maintenance. The STCC will consult the plan-   these arrangements during negotiations-along
ning unit before programming any microprojects   with the dates on which the CCGU would meet with
with the Be Development Committee. On the basis   AGETUR to review the project's progress and
of instructions received from CCGU and the works   AGETUR's performance during the project imple-
overseers represented therein (State, Municipality,   mentation period.
CDB), STCC will prepare annual work programs and
submit them to the CCGU. CCGU will submit these   Procurement and Disbursement
work programs to IDA, who will verify that the pro-
posed works are in conformity with the project de-   Pirocurement
scription, and then AGETUR for execution. (These
arrangementswere agreedwith Governmentduring    2.53 Table 3 shows expected procurement by cat-
appraisal and will be confwrmed at negotiations.)    egory of expenditure. During negotiations, Gov-
19



Togo Urban Developme,t Proect
ernment will provide assurances that it will apply    bids will be required for each contract tendering.
standard Bank procurement procedures, and use    A sample bidding document will be reviewed and
standard Bank bidding documents for works under    approved prior to solicitation of the first LCB pro-
ICB. For complex, time-based assignments, Bank    curement, and will be used for subsequent LCB.
consultants' contracts will be used throughout the    All works contracts for amounts exceeding
proposed project. (This will be agreed at negotia-    US$250,000 would be subjected to ICB procedures
tions and a binding clause will be included in the    in accordance with IDA Guidelines for Procure-
Credit Agreement.)                               ment Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (May
1992). In accordance with IDA guidelines, a prefer-
2.54 Civil Works. Annualworks programswill be    ential margin of 7.5 percent will be given to domes-
reviewed and finalized by CCGU in consultation with   tic contractors.
IDA. AGETUR will prepare contract packages (in-
corporating designs for labor-intensive construc-    2.56 Goods.Contractsforgoodsandequipment
tion) for IDA's review that are small enough to en-   would be procured under ICB. Exceptions to ICB
courage participation by SMEs.                   would be made for goods contracts (limited to of-
2.55 Since the number of Togo SMEs is ad-   fice supplies and equipment) estimated at less than
equate, works contracts up to US$250,000 equiva-   or equal to US$50,000 equivalent each, in aggregate
lent each would be subjected to LCB procedures    not to exceed US$0.35 M. Goods costing less than
acceptable to IDA. At the minimum, therefore,   US$20,000, up to a cumulative amount of USS0.25
they must include local advertising, public bid-   M, will be purchased through local shopping (LS)
opening, transparent evaluation criteria, award to    on the basis of price quotations obtained from at
the lowest bidder, and nonexclusion of foreign    least three reliable suppliers.
bidders. Preregistration of contractors will be intro-
duced to ensure that only those with sufficient and  2.57 OtherProurementMehods. Operating costs
appropriate experience participate in the bidding    not exceeding US$20,000 and totaling a maximum
process. The registration procedure will be an-   of US$0.1 M could be purchased through interna-
nounced in the local newspapers, and the list of   tional or local shopping (LS) on the basis of price
qualified contractors will be updated every six    quotations obtained from at least three reliable sup-
months. To justify competition, a minimum of four    pliers to ensure competitive prices.
Table 3 Procurement Method
(US$ thousands)
P%ject ement                         ICB        LCB          Other       N.B.F.      Tota
1. Works
(a) Civil works                     4,032       14,353          0          0        18,385
(IDA)                           (3,503)    (12,512)          0         0        (16,015)
(b) Community works'                    0        3,470          0         0          3,470
(IDA)                                0      (3,023)          0         0         (3,023)
2. Equipment                          444         352         250          0         1,046
(IDA)                            (444)       (352)        (250)        0         (1,046)
3. AGETUTR service contract             0           0         725          0           725
(IDA)                                0           0        (725)        0          (725)
4. Consultancies and training           0           0        4,178         0         4,178
(IDA)                                0           0      (4,178)        0         (4,178)
5. STCC operating costs                 0           0         445          0           445
(IDA)                                0           0        (445)        0          (445)
6. Refunding PPF                       -           -           -          -            750
(IDA)                               -           -           -         -           (750)
TOTAL COSI                           4,476      18,175       5,598         0         29,000
(IDA)                           (3,947)    (15,887)     (5,598)        0        (26,183)
a. Indudes conuibudons of Governments, City of Lome and CBD.
20



The P~i,edt
2.58 Reuiew. For contracts for civil works esti-   accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use
mated to cost more than USS250,000 equivalent   of Consultants (August 1981). Before agreeing to
each, and for goods for more than US$50,000, the    any material modification or waiver of the terms and
bidding documents, advertisements, advertising    conditions of contract that would increase the cost
procedures, bid evaluation reports and proposed    of the contract by more than 10 percent of the origi-
contract awards would be reviewed by IDA prior to   nal price, the Borrower will have to inform IDA of
solicitation of bids and award of contracts. All ICB    the proposed modification and reasons therefore.
procurement would be subject to prior review. All   (The figure of 10 percent would be specified for the
LCB civil works procurementwould also be subject   purpose of para. 4 of Appendix 1 to the Bank's
to prior review for the first year of implementation.   Guidelines.)
2.59 For the second year of implementation,
LCB procurement for civil works exceeding    Disbursement
US$100,000would be subject to priorreview. For the
third year of implementation, LCB procurement for   2.62 The IDA creditwould be disbursed on the basis
civil works exceeding US$150,000 would be subject   of the categories shown in Table 4. The closing date
to prior review. Post review procedures would be    will be December 31, 1999. Given the availability of
applied in the second year for civil works contracts   the Special Accounts, the minimum application for
below US$100,000 and in the third year and beyond    direct payments would normally be for the equiv-
for contracts below US$150,000.                alent of US$20,000. For estimated quarterly disburse-
2.60 Contracts for goods under LCB would be    ment schedule for the IDA credit, see Annex F.
subject to either post-review (for contracts estimated  2.63 To facilitate disbursement, US$0.30 M
at between US$20,000 and US$50,000 equivalent)   equivalent and US$1.0 M equivalent (both denomi-
or random post-review (for contracts estimated at   nated in CFA francs), will be advanced from the IDA
less than US$20,000.) For the latter, expenditures    credit and deposited into two Special Accounts
would be made out of certified Statements of Expen-   opened by the MEM in a local commercial bank for
ditures (SOEs), and documentation would be re-   STCC and AGETUR. These amounts are estimated
tained at the executing agencies for random review    to cover about four months of expenditures. These
by IDA staff and for annual audits.            Special Accounts will be replenished through the
2.61 In addition, quarterly progress reports on    submission to IDA of fully-documented withdrawal
procurement status could be requested for special   applications. However, expenses related to contracts
monitoring. (The content of these reportswouldbe    valued at less than US$20,000 equivalent each will
discussed and resolved during negotiations.) All   be reimbursed against certified statements of expen-
consultancies financed by IDA will be contracted in   ditures (SOEs), for which documentation will be re-
Table 4 Allocation and Disbursement Categones   tained at the executing agencies for post review by
(US$ thousands)                                IDA staff during supervision missions and for regu-
% of capen-         lar semi annual audits. Reimbursement applications
Creit  diurefinand          submitted against the two Accounts will include a
Catewurv         ailocaion until 12-31-96 Afler  bank statement showing account activity since the
1. Works                                       last application, with the balance certified by the
(a) Civil works   14,397    100%      85%      bank holding the Special Accounts, and a reconcil-
(b) Community works  2,718    100%    90%       ation statemen  The executing agencies will sub-
2. Equipment        940    100%       100%
3. Service contracts                           mit replenishment requests to the Special Accounts
for AGETUJR        652    100%       100%      on a quarterly basis, or whenever the accounts are
4. Consultancies                               diminished by one third, whichever comes first.
and training      3,756    100%      100%
5. Operating costsAconigAui ,adRertg
for STCC           400    100%       100%     Accounting, Auditing, and Reporting
6. Refunding PPF    750    100%       100%
7. Unallocated     2,570                       2.64 The executing agencieswill maintain separate
TOTAL             26,183       -        -      accounts and records for all project activities, includ-
21



Togo Urban Development ProAed
ing SOEs, Special Accounts and Project Accounts.   anticipate and deal with cost overruns-especially
An accounting firm acceptable to IDA would be   for civil works). Supervision missions should also
contracted to assist STCC and AGETUR in setting-   scrutinize the agencies' operating costs. (Detailed
up an accounting system in accordance with gener-   arrangements are spelled out in the Project's Imple-
ally accepted accounting standards and a budgetary    mentation Manual, the draft of which will be dis-
system and to train the agencies' accounting staff.   cussed during negotiations.
The accounting system would (i) allow STCC to     2.67 At negotiations, a list of performance indi-
consolidate project expenditures, and (ii) provide    cators will be drawn up jointly by representatives of
adequate cost accounting for civil works. One month   the Bank and by the two implementing agencies. An
after the end of each quarter, quarterly reports, to   assessment of performance by indicator will be at-
be discussed and finalized at negotiations will be   tached to the quarterly progress reports each agency
transmitted to IDA by the executing agencies (see   is required to submit to IDA. Quarterly progress
para. 2.67). Establishment of an accounting system    reports will also include statements on status of pro-
satisfactory to IDA at STCC and AGETUR, would be   curement (para. 2.59). STCC and AGETUR's re-
a condition of credit effectiveness. Assurances will   ports will be forwarded to IDA by the CCGU. To
be sought at negotiations that: (i) STCC and    complete semiannual audits of the special accounts,
AGETUR would have the project accounts and    supervision missions will need to compare invoices
records audited annually by independent auditors   paid to subcontractors for works of comparable vol-
acceptable to the Association; (ii) the Special Ac-   ume to that required at project sites.
counts and the Project Account and SOEs will be   2.68 CCGU meetings will be scheduled to co-
audited semi-annually; (iii) STCC and AGETUR will  incide with the IDA supervision schedule presented
each submit annual audited reports to IDA not later   in Table 2. The meetings will cover all aspects of
than six months from the end of each fiscal year, and    Project's implementation, and in particular, the
three months from the end of the semester for the    government's financial contribution (cost recovery)
semestrial audits.                            to urban infrastructure financing and maintenance
provided under the project, which will be assessed
Supervision Plan                              continually throughout project implementation.
Annual programs of labor-intensive infrastructure
2.65 Specific pilot activities in this project require   rehabilitation works will be approved by IDA and
close supervision and specialized expertise. Socio-   government at the conclusion of CCGU's annual
logical and environmental aspects of the Environ-   meeting.
mental Sanitation and Community Participation     2.69 TheBorrowerandIDAwillconductamid-
Components will be supervised with the assistance   term project implementation review not later than
of the Urban Management Program. Routine super-  June 30,1997 to monitor government and executing
vision missions should normally include a civil engi-   agencies' progress in carrying out the project, to dis-
neer or an urban planner and a municipal develop-   cuss and approve studies and programs identified
ment specialist. Full scale missions should also   during project implementation, to approve procure-
include a procurement specialist and a community    ment and financing for such studies and programs,
participation specialist. The number of Bank Group    and to discuss solutions to current problems.
staffweeks required for supervision is 20 for the first  2.70 In preparation for such a review, STCC
year and 14 for each subsequent year.         and AGETURwill employ independent consultants
2.66 Initial supervision missions should take    (on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA) to
place no less frequently than every four months and    carry out an evaluation of activities completed by Oc-
pay special attention to the performance of the   tober 31, 1996. Not later than December 31, 1996,
implementing agencies, STCC and AGETUR, with   the Borrower will send IDA their report plus the
respect to procurement (such as time required to   comments of the executing agencies and the Bor-
issue bidding invitations, select the winning bid, sign   rower in such detail as IDA may reasonably request.
contracts, and pay invoices; conformity with Bank  2.71 IDA will require an evaluation of the Bor-
procurement procedures; and AGETUR's ability to   rower and the executing agencies' progress in
22



77&e )P%jw
project implementation with regard to their respec-   other community-based improvements should ben-
tive agreements and a draft action program cover-   efit a total of 30,000 of Lome's poorest residents.
ing the period through project completion, which
should include a program of works, a detailed       2.74 Enmronmental Aspeds. Improving environ-
procurement program, a detailed technical assis-   mental and sanitary conditions is a major project
tance and training plan, and a detailed financing    objective. Project design therefore takes into ac-
plan (including cost recovery measures and an as-   count the recommendations of the ongoing Togo
sessment of government counterpart financing).   National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
Recommendations arising out of the midterm review   2.75 Old Lome's unfavorable low-lying site,
will be carried out promptly. (Government will give   further damaged by poor sanitation and settlement
assurances at negotiations that the midterm project   practices, is a major obstacle to sound urban devel-
implementation reviewwill be carried out under the    opment. The functioning of the lagoon and of Be's
conditions and on the proposed dates detailed    water cycle, therefore was analyzed and considered
above.)                                         throughout project design. Proposed road rehabili-
tation works, for example were reviewed during
Justification and Risks                         appraisal for environmental soundness.
2.76 The project, therefore, will help to ame-
Justsficaton                                    liorate environmental quality and potentially nega-
tive consequences will be addressed by project engi-
2.72 EcanomicAnalsis. Road, drainage, and sanita-    neers  during  implementation. Since  most
tion works to be carried out under the project are    project-financed civil works, furthermore involve
part of a larger government program of priority in-   rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads,
frastructure rehabilitation. The internal rate of re-   drains, and sanitary facilities, they are not only free
turn (IRR) of all urban road works to be carried out   of negative environmental consequences but will
under this project would exceed 18 percenL As esti-   substantially improve area sanitation. (A detailed
mated road improvements should provide savings    Environmental Impact Study has been transmitted
on vehicle operating costs (see Annex A) and other   to the Project Information Center and will be made
benefits to the urban economy. Nonquantified    available in Togo through MEM.)
health benefits (due to a reduced incidence of wa-
ter-borne disease) would affect both the Be district   Proqct Risks
and other areas where drainage works would be re-
built or extended, for an estimated 180,000 benefi-   2.77 Political and economic instability could affect
ciaries. The project's impact on local resource mo-   project implementation. During postappraisal, how-
bilization should lead to an increase of 5 percent per   ever, the government clearly expressed its commit-
year in income for the Municipality of Lom6 during    ment to the project's objectives-its political benefit
the lifespan of the project.                    to the urban poor, its encouragement of community
involvement, and its strengthening of the Municipal-
2.73 Urban Poverty and Employment At least 40   ity of Lome's ability to provide city services and col-
percent of project financingwould flow directlyinto   lect revenues. While the project's implementation
the local economy through wage-earners and local   arrangements, furthermore, must be simplified so
SMEs. Assuming that atleast 30 percent of the funds    as not to overwhelm Togolese implementing insti-
for local contracts will go to unskilled construction    tutions, government has indicated its fuD support for
labor, more than US$4.5 M would benefit the poor-   the proposed institutional arrangements and the
est urban workers almost immediately. The project   roles assigned to STCC and AGETUR.
should create 1.1 million work-days, 90 percent of  2.78 Other implementation risks concern the
which are for unskiled jobs. Environmental sanita-   ability of the newly created AGETUR to execute the
tion improvements resulting from project drainage    projecL Short-term technical assistance, and admin-
works and maintenance works would benefit about   istrative and accounting support provided by simi-
180,000 mostly poor urban residents. In the Be area,   lar agencies in the region could help minimize this
23



Togo ULapn D pem Pr*jed_
risk. But subprojects should be kept within   community participation developed, providing local,
AGETUR's absorptive capacity.                financial, and human resources to continue these
2.79 AGETUR should be sustainable beyond   rehabilitation and maintenance programs. Experi-
the project implementation period. Under the   ence also shows that confidence in an agency's effi-
project, municipal finances should improve and   ciency can lead to increased external funding.
24



Agreements and Recommendation
3
Agreed Actions                                of the project's Environmental Management Train-
ing Program for community developmenL
3.1 Prior to negotiations, the Government for-   3.2  During negotiations, Togo's government
warded to IDA a letter confirming its agreement in   also agreed:
principle:                                       1. To give IDA a draft of the subsidiary agree-
ment between the Borrower and AGETUR (to be
* To establish and maintain an Urban Manage-   reviewed by IDA and deemed satisfactory).
ment Steering Committee (CCGU) composed of the   2. To appoint and maintain as director of
Mayor of Lome and representatives of the Ministries   AGETUR an individual whose employment experi-
of Planning, Territorial Administration, Economy    ence and qualifications are deemed satisfactory to
and Finance, and Equipment and of the Be Devel-  the Association.
opment Committee.                                3. To transmit the annual work and studies
* To establish a Technical Secretariat (STCC)   programs approved by the CCGU to IDA for review
within the MEM (with adequate numbers of quali-   at least one month before their submission to
fied staff satisfactory to the Association) to prepare   AGETUR for implementation (with consultation for
policies and decisions to be approved by the CCGU.   detailed technical studies).
* To establish and maintain an independent    4. That the government's contribution to in-
agency, AGETUR (with adequate numbers of quali-  frastructure financing and maintenance be re-
fied staff satisfactory to the Association) to manage   viewed.
contracts with private firms to implement civil works  5. That-before dredging commences and ev-
financed under the project.                   ery six months thereafter-the government (CCGU
* To establish one special account for AGET-   along with the National Directorate for Sanitation
UR and one for the MEM (acting on behalf of the   and the University of Benin) will monitor changes in
STCC).                                       the functioning of the lagoon system, the new sanita-
* To delegate authority for procurement and   tion mechanisms installed, and the physical, chemi-
disbursement of civil works (contract award and sig-   cal, and biological characteristics of the lake water.
nature of disbursement requests) to the director of  6. That-six months after the urban transport
AGETUR3 (A draft subsidiary agreement between   study's final report is submitted-agreement will be
Government and AGETUR detailing these arrange-   reached with IDA on implementation of the Road
ments will be reviewed during negotiations).  Safety Measures and Communiq-Generated Im-
provements subcomponent.
Before negotiations, IDA also received the Terms of  7. That CARE-Togo Terms of Reference be
Reference for GARE-Togo, which will be in charge   reviewed.
25



Togo Urban Deveoomnit )4jed
8. That a model microproject contract be ex-  * Pursuant to the applicable legislation, the
amined and finalized.                         Borrower has established AGETUR on terms and
9. That arrangements for the two special ac-   conditions satisfactory to IDA.
counts for STCC and AGETUR be agreed upon and    * The Borrower has appointed as director of
included in the Credit Agreement.             AGETUR an individual whose experience and quali-
10. That specifications for midterm and an-   fications are satisfactory to IDA.
nual project reviews, specifications for the prepara-  3.4  Conditions for Credit Effectiveness:
tion and monitoring of project implementation    * Agreement (satisfactory to IDA, the Bor-
plans, and a format for quarterly progress reports   rower, CDB, and the Municipality of Lome) regard-
be finalized. Quarterly reports will include a list of   ing CDB's and the Municipality of Lome's contribu-
performance indicators (including a procurement   tion to the Project's implementation.
review) to be monitored during implementation    * Signature by the Government, through the
and will be transmitted by the executing agencies at   CCGU, of the agreement with CARE-Togo for the
the latest one month after the end of each quarter.  implementation of the EMPT in the project's com-
Standard bidding documents would be used for   munity participation component.
works contracts.                                 * Agreement (satisfactory to the IDA) on the
11. That agreement be reached on a draft  form and substance of model contract for the execu-
Project Implementation Manual.               tion of microprojects.
12. That government confirmation be sought    * Establishment, under conditions acceptable
(through the CCGU) throughout the project to en-   to IDA, of working groups responsible for the prepa-
sure that auditing of the accounts of both imple-   ration of the Municipal Development Action Plan.
menting agencies (covering project accounts and  * Signature ofasubsidiary agreement between
special accounts) is carried out according to the    Government and the project-implementing agency
agreed schedule; that the implementing agencies   AGETUR.
submit quarterly and annual reports as required; and  * Establishment of a project-accounting system
that-after approval by the Comite de Be and the   satisfactory to IDA.
CCGU-the proposed microprojects program is sub-
mitted quarterly to IDA for review.           Recommendations
3.3 Conditions for Presentation to the Board:
3.5 Subject to the above assurances and condi-
* Pursuant to the applicable legislation, the   tions, the proposed project would constitute a suit-
Borrower has established an Urban Management   able basis for an IDA Credit of US$26.2 M to the Re-
Steering Committee (CCGU) on terms and condi-   public of Togo.
tions satisfactory to IDA.
26



Anne XA                                                                       27
ANNEX A
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT COMPONENTS
I.    Transport and Traffic
II.    Environment and Sanitation
m.   Community Development and Public Works
IV.   Urban Institution Building



28                                                                         Annex A
ANNEX A
PROJECT COMPONENTS
I. Transport and Traffic Conditions
1.    Within the proposed framework of the Togo Urban Development Project, the objectives
of the transport component are: (a) improvement of roads; (b) improved transportation for the
city's poorer residents (including mass transit, bicycle paths and access roads to poorer
neighborhoods); (c) promotion of labor-intensive urban works.
2.    Works will include the construction and improvement of 9.9 kilometers on five arterial
roads that are currently unpaved and lack adequate drainage. These were selected mainly on the
basis of economic rate-of-return but also as they will affect the other component objectives. In
order of descending priority, the roads singled out for improvement are:
a. Boulevard de l'Oti (2.65 lum)
b. Extension of Avenue du Pya (2.2 km)
c. Extension of Avenue de la Liberation (1. 15 km)
d. Rue de Gakli-Djidjole/Avenue de Pya (2.04 Iam)
e. Route d'Adakpame/Malfakassa (1.9 km)
3.    Technical Specifications.  Works will be carried out by labor-intensive means.
Roadways will be surfaced with concrete paving blocks placed upon sand and a foundation layer
about 30 cm deep. For purposes of surface-level signaling, two different colors of concrete will
be used to demarcate lanes for cyclists and pedestrians. Sidewalks will be constructed of paving
blocks or squares placed upon sand and a foundation layer about 15 cm deep. Where the volume
of runoff permits, drainage will consist of simple covered gutters to which collectors will be
attached for distant water streams. The remaining parts of the road will be reprofiled where
necessary and stabilized with cement. The project also provides for tree-planting as space
permits.
4.    Dimensions. Roadways will be 7 to 9 meters wide, with 6 meters for two-way vehicular
traffic and the rest for bicycle lanes, whose width will vary according to the road's functions and
amount of two-wheeled traffic. At intervals of about 100 to 200 meters, roadways will be
widened by 2 meters on each side to accommodate minibus and taxi stops. Sidewalks, whose
paved width will vary from 1.5 to 3 meters, will be set off from the roadway by high borders
or by crenelated borders where drainage requires them.
5.    Site-specific Road safety and improvement measures. In addition to the construction
and improvement of these five roads, there is a need for several small, targeted improvements,
especially in areas of concentrated activity. In the context of the Transport Rehabilitation Project,
the Ministry of Commerce and Transport (MCT) is currently drawing up a road safety plan, part
of which deals with urban traffic. For this reason, the Lome Urban Development Project
includes a subcomponent of site-specific road and traffic safety improvements. The urban
transport study (see below), will define specific actions in taking into account MCT's



Annex A                                                                        29
recommendations on road safety. IDA's approval will be required for each intervention under
this subcomponent.
6.    Traffic Study and Technical Assistance. A study of urban transport in Lome will be
undertaken to develop the city's institutional capacity for improvement and management of its
roads.  The study will:  (a) prepare a detailed statement of the traffic unit's mandate,
organization, staffing, and logistics; (b) make an action plan for traffic flow and improvement
of peripheral spaces in the city of Lome; (c) define a strategy for improving the mobility of
Lome's poor without State subsidies (particularly by promoting mass transit and bicycles); and
(d) defining the scale of and justification for urban works (that use labor-intensive methods) for
eventual inclusion in a second Togo Urban Development Project.
Implementation
7.    The STCC (Technical Secretariat) and AGETUR will be responsible for designing and
executing project investments. Physical works will be transferred to the Municipality of Lome
upon completion. The technical Secretariat, in cooperation with the Municipality of Lome, will
monitor the development of the urban transport study.
8.    Design. In consultation with AGETUR, CCGU's Technical Secretariat, STCC, will
define the technical and managerial issues involved in the works on the five roads, taking into
account experience acquired during the pilot phase to begin in June 1994. In coordination with
the Municipality, it will define annual work programs and submit them to the Government and
IDA for approval. Any modifications of these programs once they are under way will be
described in the project's quarterly progress reports. STCC will also contract for and oversee
the urban transport study.
9.    Implementation. AGETUR will recruit consultants for engineering studies and for
works supervision. It will also handle procurement in connection with works execution.
Contracts will be awarded by AGETUR based on local competitive bidding (except for a few
specialized modules, such as the installation of five or six traffic lights). The works, consisting
mainly of laying paving blocks and constructing drainage facilities, will be divided into small lots
of CFAF 20 to 100 million each, thus allowing them to be carried out by small and medium
enterprises (SMEs) using labor-intensive techniques. Some 20 to 40 contracts of this type are
expected to be awarded each year.
10.   The five roads built and improved under the project will each be handed over to the
Municipality upon completion of all the works, that is, when all bid lots have been completed.
Until that time, AGETUR will technically be in charge of the roads and their routine
maintenance.
Timetable
11.   Pilot projects were defined to test the concept of road construction by SMEs using labor-
intensive means. These pilot operations will be carried out between April 1994 and July 1995,
with financing from the IDA credit for transport rehabilitation and possibly from the CCCE. It
is thus expected that works on the five road axes included in the project will be carried out
between late 1995 and mid 1998. Consultants charged with the preparation of detailed plans and
bidding packages will be hired by early 1995. Consultants for the traffic study are also to be



30                                                                                        Annex A
hired by December 1994 to allow time for a consensus to emerge on the ad hoc activities to be
undertaken during 1996.
Costs
12.    The base costs of the transport component of the project are estimated as follows:
.                           11                 ~~~~~~~~~~~US$ 'OOO
Project Components                 JlTOt
TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC
Five Road Axes
- Boulevard de l'OTI                                1,088.7          821.3         1,910.0
- Extension of Avenue de Pya                          886.4          668.7         1,555.0
- Extension of Avenue de la Liberation                609.9          460.1         1,070.0
- Rue de Gakli-Djidjole/Avenue de Pya                 852.2          642.9         1,495.0
- Route d'Adakpame/Malfakassa                         675.5          509.6         1,185.0
Subtotal                                           4,112.6        3,102.5        7,215.0
Road Safety and Ad Hoc Interventions                        225.2          169.9          395.0
Detailed Studies and Works Supervision                      695.4          524.6         1,220.0
Traffic Study (and Technical Assistance)                    285.0          215.0          500.0
BASE COST                                                    5,318.1        4,011.9        9,330.0
Physical Contingencies                                        531.8          401.2           933.0
Price Contingencies                                          1,905.8         500.1         2,405.9
TOTAL                                                        7,755.7       4,913.2        12,668.9
Agreements to be Reached
13.    During negotiation of the Togo Urban Development Project, agreements must be reached
on the following issues:
a.      That IDA's approval of detailed road works programs must be obtained every
year (para. 8);
b.      That the road safety measures and ad hoc improvements be implemented with
IDA agreement, six months after submission of the final traffic study report
(para. 5).



Annex A                                                                        31
II. Environment and Sanitation
Objectives
14.   The program of environmental and sanitary improvements aims at ensuring permanent
management of the urban environment especially with regard to the water cycle and household
waste. In accordance with Togolese priorities the project will first concentrate on improving Be
Lagoon and its adjacent neighborhoods. Sanitary conditions there are the worst in Lome and the
likelihood of engaging the people in environmental improvement is high.
Description
15.   The program  of environmental improvement for Be lagoon and the adjacent
neighborhoods includes four types of complementary actions:
a.    Erosion control works on the northern slopes to reduce mineral runoff into the
lake and to improve the functioning of the lagoon system;
b.    Improvement of the southern banks of Be Lake to create zones for artisanal and
recreational activity;
c.    Partial dredging of Be Lake to reestablish the lagoon system's self-purification
capacity;
d.    Drainage of two pilot zones in Be by installing deep drains and planting of
vegetation.
For actions related to public latrine access in Be and to the evacuation and treatment of latrine
effluent (see community participation component).
16.   Erosion-control works on the northern bank of the lagoon will include:
a.    Tree-planting along 2,500 meters of the northern bank to stabilize the soil and
reduce erosion;
b.    Improvements to the base of the northern slope, including installation of
connecting channels; installation of 27 break-pressure chambers (drain outlets)
at the foot of the slope, installation of 2,300 linear meters of cross drains and
paths for maintenance of the banks; and creation of 27 outfalls exiting into the
lake (800-mm culverts);
C.    Drainage improvements at eighty intersections that are outlets for the east-west
road system;
d.    grading of north-south roads, including grading along the embankments (27
roads) and V-shaped grading of about 10,000 meters of roadway;



32                                                                         Annex A
e.    Construction of lined drains for runoff from about 10,000 meters of east-west
streets;
f.    Construction of a 13,000 m3 holding pond capacity with ancillary structures;
g.    Construction of 200 erosion-control works on 27 lateral roads.
17.   Southern banks of Be Lake. Three rows of trees will be planted 20 meters apart on a
12.5 ha pilot zone. Artisanal and recreational areas will be built and provided with public
facilities, lighting, and outdoor furniture.
18.   A detailed study of the river-lagoon complex will be completed prior to dredging the
lagoon. The impact of dredging on the water table and on drainage and flooding in adjacent
neighborhoods will be evaluated based on a diagnostic study of the site (tidal dynamics,
hydrogeology of the water table, in- and out-flow patterns). The lakes' cross sections will be
examined, and the physical and chemical characteristics of sediments checked for the presence
of such toxins (as heavy metals). Analysis of mineral run-off from the northern bank and of the
nature and volume of sediments will also make it possible to determine the speed of siltation in
the lagoon. This analysis will be accompanied by a detailed study of the physical, chemical,
bacteriological, and algal qualities (and seasonal variations therein) of water in the complex and
of changes over time in the quantitative and qualitative characteristics of the water table.
19.   Based on the results of this analysis and on consultation with the population, a detailed
program of works and partial dredging of the lagoon will be finalized. Partial dredging is.
expected to involve the removal of sediments from Be Lake, the large canal, and the Be canal.
This will mean removal of 300,000 m3 of silt, sand, and solid sediment). It is anticipated that
the dredged material could be used as landfill for a drained area of 70 ha upon which market
gardens and public spaces could be created.
20.   Lowering of the water table, test-operations will be carried out in two pilot areas in Be
to gauge the medium-term efficiency of various drainage techniques and to identify those best
suited to the whole neighborhood.
(a)    A network of deep drains and gutters will be constructed in a 40 ha pilot zone
in Old Be.  This area has five streets perpendicular to the lagoon's bank
averaging 650 m in length and 11 streets parallel to the bank averaging 600 m
in length. Streets perpendicular to the slope will be drained by small-diameter
(100 mm) collector pipes leading to collectors of over 150 mm in diameter, then
into a surface gutter that spill into the lake.
(b)    Extensive tree planting will be carried out in a second 40 ha pilot area located
east of the low-lying drainage area. With the help of botanists, highly absorptive
plant species will be used and their effectiveness tested as a technique for
lowering the water table. Research and experimentation with alternatives to the
laterization, or hard-packed clay covering of streets will also be carried out in
this second pilot area.
21.   Sludge management audit.  The project will also include an organizational and
performance audit of the management of household and industrial wastes and sewer sludge. This
audit will make it possible to identify measures to improve the current situation and to give scope



Annex A                                                                        33
to small enterprises for precollection, sorting, removal, dumping, treatment, recycling,
composting, soil amendment, market gardening, etc.
Implementation
22.   STCC and AGETUR will manage the design and execution of works under the project.
Responsibility for physical installations will be transferred to the Municipality of Lome upon their
completion.
23.   STCC will be responsible for the choice of technical options for works to be carried out,
for contracting studies of the river-lagoon complex, and for the organizational audit of household
waste removal. STCC will prepare annual works execution programs and submit them for
approval to the CCGU and IDA. After approval is secured, AGETUR will be responsible for
procurement and works oversight including detailed technical studies, bidding documents and
works supervision and execution. The dredging of the lagoon will be contracted out by
international competitive bidding. Other works contracts will be awarded on the basis of local
competitive bidding. In the latter category, those which are to be carried out by labor-intensive
means will be broken down into lots of CFAF 20 to 100 million each to be implemented by local
SMEs.
Timetable
24.   Technical studies of the river-lagoon complex will be carried out during the first six
months of the project. Based on recommendations resulting from these studies, detailed projects
and bidding packages for works will be put together over the following six months. All works
will be carried out between the second and fourth years of the project.



34                                                                                      Annex A
Costs
Table A.II. 1. Base costs for environment and sanitation.
Project Components                 lI  ori                   Total
ENVIRONMENT AND SANITATION
Erosion-control Works
- Tree planting along the longitudinal slope  21.8      18.2         40.0
- Cross drains at the base of the slope and
V-contouring of lateral (east/west) streets  109.0      91.0        200.0
- Lined dmins                               122.6      102.4        225.0
- Holding basins                            234.4      195.7        430.0
- Erosion control works                      51.8       43.2         95.0
Subtotal                                   539.6      450.5        990.0
Improvement of Southern Banks
- Tree planting                              32.7       27.3         60.0
- Public lighting                            38.2       31.9         70.0
- Public amenities                           21.8       18.2         40.0
Subtotal                                     92.7       77.4        170.0
Dredging of Be Lagoon
- Dredging of 300,000 m3 of sediment        978.3      816.7       1,795.0
- Levelling of displaced material            87.2       72.8        160.0
Subtotal                                 1,065.5      889.5      1,955.0
Drainage of Lake's Southern Banks
- Deep drains                               384.2      320.8        705.0
- Massive planting                           16.4       13.7         30.0
- Surfacing alternatives to laterization     21.8       18.2         40.0
Subtotal                                    422.4      352.6        775.0
Studies, Supervision, Management
- Hydrogeological studies                   218.0      182.0        400.0
- Audit of household waste                  103.6       86.5        190.0
- Studies, programming, planning (STCC)      40.9       34.1         75.0
- Works oversight & execution (AGETUR)      348.8      291.2        640.0
Subtotal                                    711.2      593.8      1,305.0
BASE COST                                          2,831.3    2,363.7     5,195.0
Physical Contingencies                              283.1      236.4        519.5
Price Contingencies                                1,042.1     291.3       1,333.4
TOTAL                                             4,156.5    2,891.4      7,047.9



Annex A                                                                       35
Agreements to be Reached
25.   The following agreements are to be reached during negotiations:
a.    Togolese authorities, through the CCGU, will promise to transmit to IDA annual
works programs for environmental improvement at least one month before their
submission to AGETUR for execution, with added consultation for detailed
technical studies.
b.    The Togolese authorities CCGU, the Directorate of Hydraulics and Energy and
the University of Benin, will pledge to monitor changes in the functioning of the
lagoon system, in the sanitation mechanisms installed, and in the physical,
chemical, and biological quality of lake water before dredging commences and
every six months after its completion.



36                                                                           Annex A
III. Community Development and Public Works
Objectives
26.    Support for community participation has three objectives:
a.     To make the population aware to individual and collective responsibility for
environmental and sanitation management.
b.     To support grass-roots initiatives for improving living conditions in Be.
c.     To engage the beneficiary population in the design, execution, management, and
maintenance of infrastructure improvements provided under the project.
Description
27.   Program support for community participation will consist of:
a.     A training program in environmental management.
b.    Construction of public latrines to be managed by local committees.
c.     Construction of a community center.
d.     Microprojects devised and implemented by local groups to improve the
neighborhood living conditions.
28.   Environmental management training.  The program will include an evaluation of
training needs and the production of training and outreach materials designed for the largely
illiterate population; design and implementation of a program to train locals as future trainers;
support to help local trainers organize neighborhood workshops; support to local committees in
the identification, design, implementation, and management of microprojects; and evaluation of
the impact of these activities on the neighborhood environment and behavior.
29.   Public latrines. This program will include the construction of approximately 20 latrine
blocks and the rehabilitation of existing facilities, particularly in schools. Latrines will be
equipped with septic tanks and anaerobic percolating filters. Two modes of end-product
purification will be tested. The effluent from latrines close to the lake will be drained by a
gravity-operated network of small-diameter sewers into an oxidation pond on the eastern edge of
Be Lake. In order to achieve an acceptable bacterial level, these ponds will be strictly aerobic.
The effluent from latrines farther from the lake will be treated by means of sand filtration.
Latrines will be designed to permit eventual connection to a network of small-diameter sewers.
Technical options for the final treatment of effluent will depend on the tests results for the two
techniques.
30.   A study of a master plan for a neighborhood public latrine will be contracted out by
CCGU to specialized consultants and carried out in close collaboration with CDB and its
specialized associations. This study will consider principles for choosing the site of public



Annex A                                                                        37
latrines in Be, the number of latrines needed the minimum pollution threat necessary to justify
a collection network, proposals for building a collection network for effluent (using small-
diameter sewers leading to an oxidation pond at the edge of the lake), and which architectural
features will make the public latrines attractive and facilitate upkeep, contractors will then devise
a master plan and the detailed schema for the latrines' continued operation.
31.   Community center. A building will be constructed for locals to use for association
meetings, training centers, and community and social events.
32.   Popular initiatives. The project will support a variety of locally generated and managed
microprojects such as:
(a)    Small-scale neighborhood works (improvement of local roads, drainage and
drinking water supply; evacuation of household wastewater; construction of
pedestrian walkways, small plazas, and public spaces; planting of vegetation; etc.
(b)    Works that would improve conditions for economic activities (rehabilitation of
existing markets, creation of zones for artisanal activity, or for composting and
market gardening, etc.) and
(c)    Organizational support for management training and job creation for the informal
sector for such activities as precollection of household waste, composting of
organic material, market gardening, fish-farming, recycling).
Implementation
33.   Training in enviromnental management. This will be executed by CARE Togo, a local
NGO with international experience who will provide a program coordinator and five trainers
during the first year of the project. With ad hoc help from experts, these persons will prepare
a training program to be carried out by 10 local outreach workers (chosen by the NGO from
within the community of Be) in years two through four of the project.
34.   Microprojects. (including Public latrines) Sponsoring local management committees
will identify, execute, manage and maintain each microproject including that for public latrines.
At all phases of a microproject CARE Togo who will give these committees necessary support
and the Be Development Committee will provide oversight. Each microproject will be approved
by the CCGU and a microproject contract to be signed by representatives of the local
development committee, the CDB and the CCGU will detail the justification for the actions
envisaged, their anticipated benefits, the support of the CDB the project's relative priority, the
contribution of the local population (at least 10 percent of the cost implementation and
maintenance arrangements and responsibilities, a plan for operation and subsequent management
(in principle to be carried out by the local management committee or the CDB), and criteria for
evaluation of the microproject once it is completed.
35.   Based on this microproject contract AGETUR will contract out works oversight (detailed
preproject and works supervision) to consulting firms. Execution of more elaborate microprojects
(such as the construction and rehabilitation of public latrines) will begin only after the local
management committee and the affected population have demonstrated their commitment to



38                                                                       Anna A
neighborhood improvement by assuming responsibility for a few simple environmental-
improvement initiatives.
36.   AGETUR will award contracts for works associated with microprojects after local
competitive bidding. On the basis of quarterly programs approved by CCGU and the World
Bank, AGETUR will also be empowered to award contracts for the execution of small works (up
to CFAF 5 million) on a one-to-one basis with local associations or to finance (up to CFAF 5
million) employment-generating initiatives.
Timetable
37.   Environmental management.  Training program activities required to set up the
microprojects, (such as the study for a public latrine master plan) will begin in the first year of
the project. Given the time needed to educate locals about environmental and sanitation issues
and for the population to demonstrate its commitment, it is anticipated that microprojects will not
come up to full speed until the third and fourth years of the project. The public latrine master
plan study should make it possible to make a schedule for constructing the effluent-collection
network and oxidation ponds, which will depend on the pace of latrine construction.



Annex A                                                                                          39
Costs
38.    Table A.1. 1. Estimated base costs for community development and public works
[                                                     [  __________       USS$  ooos
Project Components                                                               -lForeign  Total
BE COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
Training and support for Microprojects                     241.5          223.5           465.0
Construction of Public Latrines
- Construction of new latrines                        176.6          163.4          340.0
- Rehabilitation of existing latrines                  80.5           74.5           155.0
- Effluent collection network                         207.8          192.2          400.0
- Treatment by oxidation pond                          44.1           40.9           85.0
Subtotal                                            509.0          471.0           980.0
Construction of Conmnunity Center                          243.1          224.9           468.0
Microprojects
- Supporting studies                                   31.2           28.8           60.0
- Works execution                                     124.7          115.3          240.0
Subtotal                                              155.8          144.2          300.0
Studies, Planning, and Works Oversight
- Public latrine master plan study                    109.1          100.9          210.0
- Planning and progranmning                            39.0           36.0           75.0
- Works oversight (AGETUR)                            163.6          151.4          315.0
Subtotal                                            311.6           288.4          600.0
BASE COST                                                    1,461.3        1,351.9        2,813.0
Physical Contingencies                                        146.1          135.2           281.3
Price Contingencies                                           521.7          161.1           682.8
TOTAL                                                       2,128.9         1,648.2        3,777.1
Agreements to be Reached
39.    The following agreements are yet to be reached:
(a)     A model microproject contract (to be signed by the local management committee,
the CDB and the CCGU) will be finalized during project negotiations. CDB and
CCGU's formal approval for the general use of this model contract will be a
condition of Credit effectiveness.
(b)     Terms of reference for CARE Togo (who will carry out the Environmental
Management Training Program) will be transmitted to IDA before negotiations
and reviewed during negotiations. Government signature of the agreement with
CARE Togo will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.



40                                                                       Annex A
(c)    The CCGU will give IDA a copy of the arrangements by which the Municipality
of Lome and the Be Development Committee will identify (and thereafter operate
and maintain) infrastructure financed under the project as a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
Environmental Management Training Program (EMTP)
40.   The key to the success of Togo's first urban project is undoubtedly the commitment and
participation of the community. To ensure such commitment, much hard work is required on the
part of AGETUR, CCGU, the municipal authorities, and community leaders. For investment in
infrastructure to improve an urban environment and for these improvements to be sustainable
requires a dynamic and innovative program of community education and training. For the
community-particularly women to contribute, requires training in effective environmental
management practices.
Objectives.
41.   The Environmental Management Training Program (EMTP) will:  (a) help raise
community awareness and commitment to achieving the project's environmental management
objectives; (b) provide a forum for the discussion of community needs for both the community
and the agencies responsible for project execution; (c) give locals the necessary skills-through
training in the identification, design, implementation and management of microprojects-to
manage their new responsibilities; (d) Introduce a model of participatory training and create local
capacity to educate both men and women about mobilize support for and follow-up on
environmental issues of importance to the entire community.
42.   Role of Women. Women are Lome's principal household and environmental managers.
They are responsible for providing water, disposing of waste, collecting garbage, and cleaning
the house and the surrounding area. They are also responsible for the health of their households
and especially children's health. Yet few women recognize the link between poor hygiene
unsanitary conditions (polluted water, pile-up of garbage) and the state of their family's health.
Overall, the women in Lome are less educated than men, and their level of illiteracy is very high.
Yet they predominate in commerce and generate much of the income in the community.
43.   Given their important role as traders in the marketplace and in the informal sector and
within the household, Togolese women are well-placed to communicate and, if given the means,
to educate and train others.  While women now have little formal responsibility for
community-level decision-making, informally they have considerable influence that could be
tapped. It is unlikely that environmental problems in Lom6 can be solved without women, and
strengthening their community-level skills in environmental management is likely to have a very
good return.
44.   Implementation. The EMTP will be executed by CARE Togo, who will provide the
EMTP Program Coordinator, resource people to design and monitor the program itself, and five
trainers. These trainers will identify trainees and participants from the community and be
responsible for their training and subsequent supervision. CARE Togo will carry out a six-
monthly evaluation of its training for and support of microproject programs. A yearly evaluation
of the overall program will be carried out by an external consultant with experience in the region.



Annex A                                                                        41
45.   The multidisciplinary training team made up of five training experts (with the support of
others as necessary) will design and deliver community outreach, environmental management and
technical training, and follow-up. During a four-year period beginning in 1995, the EMTP
training team will:
(a)    Undertake an in-depth for needs-assessment environmental management training
needs assessment in the community of Be.
(b)    Develop training materials, geared to the needs of the largely illiterate residents
of Be.
(c)    Design and deliver a program to train locals as environmental management
trainers.
(d)    Support a community-based training program (focused especially on women) to
be delivered by expanded EMTP team;
(e)    Design and deliver a program of training support for microprojects.
(f)    Evaluate the impact of these programs on environmental management practices
and community behavior.
Program Cost.
46.   Table A.III.2.  Estimated base costs for the Environmental Management Training
Program.
TOTAL        l YEAR 1   YEAR 2   YEARS 3-5 l TOTAL
COMPONENTS           130         110        225           465



42                                                                                                                                            Annex A
Table A.III.3. Projected Timetable for the EMTP
in the PDU AT BE
ACrTVrNES                                                                           YEAR I             YEAR 2            YEAR 3             YEAR 4
+Imctllaxlon    Progfam Undt
+Soclecnomac study und aIysis of irainig  ted                                                 
+Prepndtion of meting mter_sl_
+Tairda of locbd   aimr. and of tnevn fom NGOOr aeociation rnd oter inltutls                                  - - - - - -        - - - - - -        - - - - - 
Involved in the PDU
- Prepartion od  airng mnals
|   P       ratio   trwsnd  module
|   Aral       aext n ty
+Preparaton of enviomneia matngement nodule
+Fin pilot teining cne on envrnt         _    ene                                                      
+Montering-support of training oure gien by local tnm                                                         - - - - - -        - - - - - -        - - - - - -
+Tranilng--wrkshop on revitalization od de CDB and other conmunity esuocuiti                         _ _      _ _
+PReparneaon of die modulc on mrprojct Ientifcation and mun t                                                 _ 
+Preparation of technical pakae on mkrqoprc_
+Tmrinng o( local aliern in mlroproject idetifiaon and n4eument and aWlItion of                                  _ 
wdaniw P-b
+ Prepaion and ewx ion of dite mdule on orpnkalon, nfneiem.n aid monitoring of a                                    - - - -
production or service uni
+Worblhaps on die prviion of auaise or advice to community esacciataic  NGOs and                                                 _      _          _  _    __
other Istutito  ave in thc mam within the PDU framework
+ Monhioing d( m    kcrqpnojnza and production or anvie units                                                                    - - - - - -
+Empowermea of CDB to take respambilty for its hunikn, materi and finuacial resonce                                             - - - - - -
nanugenaest:
- Preqation of teaching    ils
- Prepartion and holding of werkshop  anrd breistorvoirs aessns
- Review of CDO's objecdvts
- Review of CDB', swisty pviusot aod by-la
- Im nrotmi   de tc mmunity Wantesson and patlcation system
- lerbation of' an apprpriale acousdng system and allocation o revemse
- Official recogiton of CDI's now sat
+preparation dquserly activitie reportsIIi                                                                    xxx               c x x x            x x x x
+Prepation of dniul activities repor                                                           x                  x                  x                 x
+Prqnm evalution                                                                                                 xx                                   x



Annex A                                                                        43
IV. Urban Institution Building
Objectives
47.   This component seeks democratization at the local level and to enable the Municipality
of Lome to become a true participant in the city's development. The project will finance
preparatory studies for a Municipal Development Project action plan primarily targeting local
resource mobilization. This action plan to be implemented after the project, will have the
following institutional and financial objectives:
a.    Coordinating urban development activities.
b.    Rationalizing  the  interventions of State, decentralized  administrations,
contractees, private sector, and city services by delimiting their respective
responsibilities.
c.    Strengthening the Municipality's managerial capacity.
d.    Putting local finances on a sounder footing by giving the Municipality the ability
and means to manage resources and plan interventions.
e.    Improving resource mobilization (especially from tax lists) by reforming property
taxes.
Description
48.   This component will provide the support and expertise needed to identify and prepare
for various reforms in the Government's action plan.
49.   Management of urban operations. The following project activities are designed to
improved local management methods and capacity:
a.    An analysis of the ways and consequences of extending the city limits (including
the creation of intercommunal structures). This would include a study of the
roles and resources assigned to each arrondissement and a review of who
exercises what authority over Greater Lome and arrondissement-level
government.
b.    Drawing up of a Communal Code (Code des Communes) to reflect the rightful
purview of Togolese municipal authority in the institutional system in accordance
with the 1991 constitution.
c.    Debate on the function of administrative oversight of local government and on
the ways and means of its progressive transformation into an administration based
on advice and support.



44                                                                          Annex A
50.   Actors in the urban sector.  Clarification of various responsibilities and lines of
authority will result from:
a.     Definition of priority areas for municipality intervention and creation of a system
of accords specifying the rights and responsibilities of contractees performing
state services.
b.     Reorganization of municipal technical services in the area of road maintenance
and traffic management (see component I).
c.     Abandonment of the force-account method of maintenance and AGETUR
oversight of works contracted to private enterprises or community groups.
51.   Strengthening managerial capacities.   An organizational audit of the city's
administrative structures, should lead to the simplification of administrative and financial circuits.
The project will also prepare and deliver a plan for training and redeploying midlevel managers
and other municipal employees.
52.   Municipal finances. The Commission on Local Finance Rehabilitation will consist of
representatives from the Directorates of the Treasury and Taxation and from the Municipality of
Lome. In particular, the Commission will reconcile crossed debts between the state and the
Municipality, prepare a new administrative account to serve as a point of departure for the new
management regime, resuscitate the Economic and Social Investment Fund (FIES) mechanism and
apply its resources to municipal investments, and establish a system of budget management that
requires annual account reconciliation and exact knowledge of the status of reserves.
53.   Local resource mobilization. At increase property tax revenues and improve recovery
of costs for services rendered:
a.     A cartographic urban land registry will be maintained within the Direction
Generale des Impots (DGI) as a basis for the assignment of street addresses and
the counting of taxpayers.
b.    Following the assignment of street addresses and the numbering of parcels, lots
will be enumerated by DGI in cooperation with the Municipality.
c.     New scales for evaluating property values and calculating the professional tax
will be instituted.
d.     A computerized system for managing tax lists and issuing warning notices will
be introduced.
e.     New tax collection procedures and penalties for nonpayment will be instituted.
f.     A system for financing household waste-removal will be designed.



Annex A                                                                        45
Implementation
54.   Two working groups (composed of representatives of Ministries active in the urban sector
and of the Municipality of Lome) will be created to implement this program of urban institution-
building and as part of the Government's action plan the Greater Lome Working Group will
reopen the debate on the evolution of territorial structures and the redrawing of city limits. It
will also propose updating legislation to define the authority of and relationships between state
and local government. The Local Finance Rehabilitation Working Group will handle proposals
concerning the rationalization of the city's financial management, including proposals for
improving tax collection and direct cost recovery for services rendered.
55.   The STCC will monitor the implementation of the urban institution-building program.
STCC will work with the various working groups, provide terms of reference, recruit consultants,
supervise studies needed. The working groups will need to carry out the program, and guide the
decisions of the CCGU.
Tinetable
56.   The program of studies for strengthening Lome's institutions will begin upon Credit
effectiveness. The action plan will undergo midterm review and will constitute the government's
urban strategy for the year 2000.
57.   In accordance with the government's action plan, the following measures are expected
to be taken before the closure of the project: (a) The decision to eliminate the city's budget
deficit and to establish a new administrative account; (b) A decision on the creation of new
intercommunal structures (for greater Lome); (c) Submission to the legislature of a revised
Coommunal Code; (d) An audit of municipality's administrative, of its financial circuits, and a
draft of accords with contractees to be presented to the CCGU.



46                                                                                        Annex A
Costs
58.    Table A.IV. 1. Estimated base costs for urban institutional strengthening
Project Components                                               T
I                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LoWa  Foreign  Total
D. URBAN INSITIUTION BUILDING
Technical Studies for the Municipality                 197.1       742.9        940.0
Training Program                                        54.5       205.5        260.0
Support to working groups                               57.7       217.3        275.0
Design of the urban land registry
within the General Tax Directorate                    180.3       679.7        860.0
Preparation of a Municipal Development Project         155.2       584.8        740.0
Oversight of the program (STCC)                        139.5       525.5        665.0
BASE COST                                                784.3      2,955.7      3,740.0
Physical Contingencies                                    78.4        295.6        374.0
Price Contingencies                                      281.2        360.8        642.0
TOTAL                                                   1,143.9     3,612.1      4,756.0
Agreements to be Reached
59.    Prior to negotiations, the Government will forward to IDA a letter agreeing to establish
and maintain an Urban Management Steering Committee (CCGU). Under conditions acceptable
to IDA, the Working Groups responsible for the preparation of the Municipal Development
Action Plan will be established (para. 2.22).



CFAF '000|                     USI BOOS|                      CFAF OO.a           |          Usl .0001
Prolad Components                   Local    Foelon                  c Total  Local    Foreign  Total  Local  IFotelgq |La| Foreign
TRAI4sPORT M~~~~~D TRAFFIC IMPROVEMEtff    Dtein    Toatecta                                             ota       Tolta     Lol         iln      Total
B 82. Co.t      _          _ _Inelud. Co.sllngencles
A !RAIISPORT Al D TRtAFFIC IMPFOVEMEtU_rg"I __S
1. Fe RoedAx&.
-BoutlarddetOTt                               642.33    484,587  1.12t.e00    1.081.?    tt21.1    110,.    944.271   595862  1.540,1133    1.600.5   1,009.9   2.1t104
E EjonsionclAvenue d Pyt                      522,947   394.504   917.450      880.4      66t.7   1.555.0   768.765   4        I5,113  1.253878    1,303.0 | l22.2   2.125.2
E Elnasion odAvenue de I Lbellton             359,t41    271,459   631,300     609.0      460.1   1,079.0   52t,989   333.807   866.707      8968      505.8   1.462.4
* Rue d. G0ad.flDidpaIAvanue de Pyt           502,769   370,282    82,050      852.2      642.0   1,495.0   739,102   466.395  1,205.496    1.252.7    790.5   7.0431.
- Routa dAdakp&me/wMaIkbusa                   398,516   300.63    699.150      675.5      509.6   1. tlS. 5.5,834  369,684   95S,527         993.0     626t.    1,61l5
Sub-total                                  2,426,40   1.830,44G  4,25G.650    4,112.6   3,1025    7,215$  3.5s;9701 2,250.t61 5,8171,831    6.045.7   3.615    0.t6to
2. Road Seatfe and ad hoc Intrventions         132,83     100212  233,050       225.2      1699      35.0      17718 I117,5341  294. 663      300 .2     i9t.      499
3. Detaied studle and work supermblon         410,286   309,514   719,600      695.4      524.6   1,220.0   603,147   380,e3   983.750    1,022.3      845.1   1,667.4
4. Traffic study (and lachnlcal ssisl bnce)    16t.1tS    126,850   295,00       850       215.02    500    22630    149.7t4   378,415        37.5      753.01    641. 4
OASE COST                                        3.137,679  2,367,027   5,504.700    5,318.1   4,011.9t   0,330.0                 1
hyCkal lngencbst                                 313,768C  236t,702C  550,470      531.8     401.2     933.0
Pi  ContIngencIs                                 1,124,479   295,059  1,419,488    1,905.t    500.1   2,405.9
TOTAL COPONENT A                                 4,575,8761 2,898,7821 7,474,658   _7,755.71  4,13.21  12668.  4.575.t76  2,t98,7tt:  7,474,658t   7.755.?   4,913.2  12.6680
ENVIRONMENTAL AN05SANITARY
CON104TIONS IMPROVEMENT
I . ef o siocoil l l l l
- Trespleudksgalongdieh ftiNAtt 11po           12,662    10,736    23,600       21.8    18.2         40.0    19,467    13,291    32,7s5       93.0        2.5      55.
* Cnoa draisr at Otm.asfO  oh" el l30a0
V.coatlauunidpto e(EatlW t)tlete             64,510    53.60   1t1t8,00       109. og     1.0     200.0    88,285    63,608   151,873       140.87 107.8        254
linddrdma                                     72.34 |    0,401    132,750      122.      102. 4    225.0   tn(6204    73,644   179,849      1s0o.      124.8     3048
HtcklIng basins                             136.267    115,43    253,700      234.4     1DS.7     430.0   203,652   140,t77   344.630      345.2      238.0     584.                    1')
Etoeton contaldo3 30,547    25,503    56.0d 0                                  51.       43.2      050    44,99       31,148    76.139      78.3       52.8     1290
Sub-totw                                    318.335   265,766   564,100       539.6     450.51    990.    462,582   322,661   765.241    714.0        546.0   1,330 0
2. lmnprovntwo of eouLmIIn benO 
Teo. ptantIng                                19.293    18,107    35.400        32.7      27.       80.0    28t,7|0  1'.770    48,476         48.71     33.       8.2 
. PutSblIc EgMi                                22.5091   18t,792    41,3to      3t.2       31.9      70.0    33,491    23.065    58,556       568        39.1      950 
PublIc snenkiee                              12.862    10,73      23,600       21.         .       4        19,13     13,18     32,31         2.4      22.       5.
Subto 5l 94P64    45                                                00         (2.7      77.41    170       81t34    56,015   137 349      137.0      04.91    2326
3. Duadglrga d De.goo                                               _                                                          -                             I                    Q
*   dgg ofO.00o      m3Soedtna                S77,1l2|  481,tt68  1,059,050    978.       818.7   1,795.    8 91,143   604,587  1,495,730    1,510.4   1,024.7   2,535A
.Lve ttnoefdlspocd mtdal                       Si,4 t42,952            944t      t7.       72.      160t     79.433  5,tt91 _133,t241    1348|           91.322tt| 
Sutp-loul                                   62tt,6tO|  54,t2.    ,5,5       1,05~51    tt89s1   1,DS5      970,s771  65tt,477i  ,629.0541  .45.01 t 1,11.1|1  2.76t. I
4. Dlnceo d t b | ululhm b nk4  l                                   l                   l                    l         l          l ______  134.
-. D"prmk    oflk' "w   aks72?8,693|  a6,2                          415,950     3842      320.8t    75 .    M313377   ...DS    SUXtt           I.11    31.31      912-S
* KssbvpapiShQ                                 9.6471    8,054    17,700        16.|      13.71     30|   14,bil I      9,:7691  11:7  23.7ttl "7        '"       40.3
-SuhdSqzt aternativs tlo lelelln              12,tt62|   10,73a    23,601      121        It.2      40      17,307|   12,63t    29,9431       29-,      21.41     soa
Sub-lot.[                                   2,492011  20t',049   457,25t      422.4     352.61    775      344,6951  747,D94   5S2.0tit1    584.21    4'9.31   1.003.5
H(delsiddb  12% 236;0   26.  182-0    400.0                   0            .4      214_       II
-   u ttittboldwcgl                        61,095| S,t    *i2,100               80d    6.5|    1S0.       t,4|   96t    140,60           l67|        01l    237.7
-Studios.proornuninip. ptnnbV (STCtX          24,116| 2,|   44,250               409      34,1      75. |    467        452      59,1691      St.7      41.6      10tt.|
wo* Wozwnsgt  B. xection AGETUR)             2s71 11,0            3T7,600       34t.      91.2     640tt  Y0,0|   1,            513.425|    5136|    ssfB9 6       70-|4
su-toltde                                   419670423  13945    .069,0s     2t3.        593"01   1.3050   593.1631  421.3671 ,014.5301  1.005.4-1    714.2|179
Phts%a%Cenftstw10                                  167.04Sl  139,40   30Y6,505       21        238.41    519.6l|       
ft. Cantknoenc%4                                  tt14,ttS3|  171,66 |  7tt6.71t6 1,042      29J1.   1,333A4_          |        .333I4
94t4,s 1                                704        705.023
oALvcomPONE NYdtpas maellS  4                              202____



CFAF 'COOs                     US$ -0800aI                   CFAF '008*                     uJs$ .0005                       0
Projed Comnponents                 Local    Foreign |  Tobl  |  Local    ForeIgn |  TolI         Local     Forelgn  I Total    LocelI  ForeIgn    Total
Bass os _Cd                                             Incd. CoI encle.
SUPPORT TO COMMUNITY
PARTICIPATION IN BE
I. Trahhing hI  n wv*owit menagem
und upport to micrk prlede                142,497   131.,o3   274.350      241.       223.5     465    205.97|  160.30    366,275       349.1     2717       620.
2. Conidion of plic ltId
- Conucon of nrww larInes                     104,192    96.400   200.600      176.|    163.4      340.    152,157    117,2   269,406      257.       198.7     458.
- RehabIMalaoiof aWselnbIrdnes                 47,4      43,951    91,450       80.5      74.5     155.     64.873    51,98    116.855      1100       88.1     198.1
* Eftkuenrrcoetlonnlwork                      122,578    113,422   238,000    207.       192.2     400.    185,495   140,6   326,135       114.4      238.4     552.
- TreatmerM by oaiolkin pond                   26,04     24,102    50.1S       44 1       40.9      85L    41         30.676    71,744      69.6       52.0     121.
Sub-1lal                                    300,317   277,8831  578,200      509.0     471.0o    980     443,5931  340,547   784,10t    7519.'      577.2   1,329.1
3. Constuctlon of cmwmuny cenlef               143,417   132,703   276,120     243.1      224.9     468.    198,769   157.749   356.517     336.9      267.4     604.3
4.   r"oect                                       . 
- SupporIn dudln                               1.387     17.013    35,40       31.2       28.       60.    27.691     21.084    48.755      48.9       35.7      82.6
- Works execul(on                              73,547    68,053   141,600      124.7     15.       240L    113,95     5690    199,646       193.1     145.2     338.4
Sub-lot0 1*93                                          65, I. T.OOZL         155.8     14421    300.    14,4    10.           24840       240.1     180.9    421.
5. Slies, plnn ed   r %w1s oveh._l t
I-*Pub3   l  rnsIer pln                        64,354    59,546   123,900      109.1     100.9     210      85a358    69.719   155,075      144.7     118.2     2628
I  pinnri  uad Programmiln                     22.983    21.267    44.250      39.0       38 0      75.     32,472    25.450    57,923      55.0       43.1      98.2
* Wor  oveMrsig  (AGETUR)                     96,530 . ,9,j    _ 185,o85      163.6      151.4     315.    148,.24    111.92    260,189    251.3      189.7     441.      |
Sub-4dda1                                   183,868   170132   354,000       311.6     288.4     600     26680781  207,089   473,167      451.0     351.0     802.
ASE COST                                         862.033   797'637  1,659,670    1,461.1    1,351.9   2,813.
hysIC*I Codlnernce                                88,203    79,764   165,957      146.1     135.2      281.3
rt~ Conlkigenctea                             307,823    95,041   402,864     521.7      161.1     682.8
OTAL. COMPONENT C                               1.256.059    972,442  2,228,501    2,128 9    1.6482    32.n  1 1,256.059   972,442  2.228.501    2.128 9    1.648.2   3,7_ . I
D  UR9AN4NSTITUTION tUILPING            -
I. TechnkcatSIudtehlstFhrMuACafV               116,300   438,300   554.600      197.1     742.9     940.    163,302   524,135   687,437      276.8     888.4   1,165.1
2. Trat IgProgram                               32,168    121,232   153,400      54.5     2055      260.     48,679    150,325   199,004      825      254.8     337.3
3. Suppodt loworldnking g                       34,024    128,226   162.250      57.7     217.3     275.     49,844    157,567   207,41 1     84.5     267.1     351.5    r-4
4. Design of Ow titin land regtry                                                              |
IthIn the General Teax tecorles             106,402   400,998   507,400      1 0.3      679.7     660.    149,607   479,958   629,563     253.6      8135    1.067.1
5. Prepartln of a  rmtclpstOewlPinertI
prqled                                       91,555   345,045   43,6600      155.2    54.8       740.    146.347   443,282   589,629     248.0      751.3     9094|
a.Oven  bhoflhe progam (STCC)                   82.27    310,074   392,350      139.5     525.5     665.    117,131   375.,89   493,019      198.5     637 . I     356
ASE COST                                         462724  1.73.86  2,206,600       784.3    2,955.7   3,740.
hysIcal Coningenclis                              46,272   174,388   220,660       78.4     295.6      374.0
rice Contnencles                                 165.913   212t890   378,803      781.2      360t8     64207   _                1          1        1         1          D
OTAL COMPONENT                             _ |  674,910  2,t31IJ54  2,806,063|   1,143.    3,612.1     4. 6S1              T      28,3    t-,439    3612 I    =70||
.-PROJECT PREPARATION FACILITY                         (    442,50    442.50I[ 0_42,50.1 t                                         442iiL750Ei(i7Mi
OTAL BASE COST                                 i6,132.88   6,745,632 12,878.520   10304.71  11,4333   21,828  [                        '
TOTAL PHYSICAL CONTINGENCIES                      613 289   630,313  1.243.602    i,0395    1,068.3    20,l7811
OTAL PRICE CONTINGENCIES                        2,213.015   774,853  2,987,870    3.750.9I   1,313.3   5,064,71' 2                        I      ____ 1____
IIOTALPROJECTCOST  ~   ~     ~     I895904  815,    .1,05A,  .                   3 ,.91   9.W0,0  ..14  8,1 0,   ,17 09  92    1        .                                   co. .
I Kh.5- 2844



Annex C                                                                            49
ANNEX C
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF URBAN ROADS
REHABILITATION
1.    Five urban arterials with a total length of 9.94 km will be paved with concrete blocks at
a total cost of CFAF 1,823 million ($6.9 million). They were selected (primarily on economic
criteria) from among 21 arterials with an overall length of 34.5 km, all currently unpaved. The
cost for the overall improvement program was estimated at CFAF 6,391 million. This economic
evaluation was completed under 1991 economic conditions, with an exchange rate of 264 CFAF
for US$1).
Methodology
2.    Internal rates of return were calculated for each arterial based on cost and benefit streams
for the twenty-year period 1993 to 2013. Total costs reflect the cost of initial investment, and
periodic road maintenance. Direct benefits are based on the difference in vehicle operating costs
with and without road improvement, whereas the time-value to travelers is assumed to be zero.
An attempt was also made to estimate indirect benefits due to higher land values caused by the
road improvements. But, although these development benefits can be substantial, they are
difficult to estimate in advance and were, therefore, disregarded in the economic rates of return
quoted at the end of this section.
3.    In addition to the strictly economic evaluation, each of the 21 roads was also assessed for
degree of improved access to poor sections of town, benefits to public transport, effect on general
traffic flow, and improvement in traffic safety. As indicated below, selection was weighted for
economic criteria. The internal rates of return for the selected arterials ranked 1 to 5 when
indirect benefits were included, and 1, 3, 4, 5, and 7 when only direct benefits were considered.
Table C.1. Ranking of selected arteries from among 21 Evaluated Roads
Economic Benefits  Accessibility  Public  Traffic Traffic
Direct Dir.+Indir.  to Poor   Transport  Flow  Safetv
Boulevard de l'Oti          1      1          2         5       4      1
Avenue de Pya - extension   5      2          3        10       14     1
Av. de la Libration - extension  3  3         8        19       8      1
Avenue de Pya               4      4         10         7       14     1
Route d'Adakpam6/Malfakassa  7     5          1         8       14     1
4.     Details of the evaluation methodology used can be found in the French consulting firm
OTUI's report to the Ministry of Equipment and Mines, June 1992, Urban Development Studies
for the City of Lomg, Complementary Studies, Etudes de developpement urbain de la ville de
Lome, etudes complementaires.
Costs



50                                                                          Annex C
5.     Road Construction and Maintenance.  Road construction costs are based on the
estimated financial costs of road work net of tax. In an initial evaluation, the discounted
maintenance and investment costs were compared for four types of road surface: asphalt concrete
pavement, concrete blocks, double bituminous surface treatment, and properly graded and
graveled earth roads. Concrete blocks were found to be the most economical. Since the selected
roadway construction method, (interlocking pavement blocks on a sand-covered base) has not
previously been applied in Togo in any major way, the cost estimates reflect recent experience
with similar works in nearby Cotonou (Benin). Overall investment costs (including drainage,
roadway, sidewalks, and traffic control) average about CFAF 185,000 per km.
6.     The proposed concrete-block pavement is expected to require very little maintenance
during the evaluation period. To keep the unpaved roads in their current condition through
periodic regrading and occasional regravelling, an annual outlay of CFAF 0.5 million per km
would be required. After the proposed road improvements, this would no longer be necessary
but the resulting savings are minimal (less than 1 percent and therefore not taken into account in
Internal rates of return calculations) when compared with benefits accruing from vehicle operating
costs.
7.    Vehicle Operation. The cost of vehicle operation (VOC) on various classifications of
road surface were calculated in early 1992 in the context of a road project financed by the
European Development Fund. These were based on the World Bank's HDM  III model for
intercity roads and were modified to reflect urban conditions.
8.    Costs were estimated for two surface types (paved and unpaved), three surface conditions
(good, medium, poor), two vehicle types (passenger cars, taxis and heavy vehicles), and five
speed categories up to 50 km per hour. The top speeds reflect operating constraints brought
about by traffic congestion and control in urban areas. Since vehicle operating costs are lower
for paved roads than for unpaved ones project benefits will primnarily come from VOC savings,
that is, the difference in the cost of operating a vehicle under these two circumstances.
Trafric
9.     Volume and Composition. The improved arterials will carry normal traffic, (existing
volumes plus regular traffic growth, assumed to be 5 percent per year) plus diverted traffic
(traffic currently using other itineraries, that will be attracted to the project road because of its
improved surface). To estimate future volumes, traffic counts were conducted in 1988 and 1992
at 49 locations throughout the city, including 27 counts along arterials considered for
improvement.
10.   Public transport is largely provided by shared taxis and vans. There are virtually no
urban buses. Heavy vehicles are thus primarily trucks, but their incidence is exceptionally low,
ranging from 1 to 3 percent of all traffic (except near the port, where it can reach 5 percent).
In aggregate, the traffic composition on the five arterials to be improved under the project is
private cars and other light vehicles (32 percent) taxis (23 percent), two-wheelers (44 percent),
and heavy vehicles (1 percent).
11.   Benefits and Economic Evaluation.  Assuming zero traffic growth, traffic-related
benefits during the first full year of operation are estimated to reach 866 million CFAF for the
five project roads combined. Of this value, 71 percent will be due to VOC reductions for normal



Annex C                                                                       51
traffic, 22 percent due to diverted traffic, and 7 percent due to the special benefits accruing
during the rainy season when unpaved roads are now virtually impassable.
12.   As shown below, the Internal rates of return for the five project roads range from 53.6
percent for the Avenue de la Liberation to 129.4 percent for the Boulevard de l'Oti, with an
overall Internal rates of return of 74.4 percent. These values assume a traffic growth rate of 5
percent per year and a construction period from mid-1993 to mid-1994. If traffic were not to
grow at all, the Internal rate of return would be 64.7 percent.
Table C.2. Internal Rates of Return for Arterials Selected for Project
(Percentage)
No Traffic
Base Case    Growth
Boulevard de l'Oti               129.4  115.2
Route d'Adakpame/Malfakassa       55.9  47.5
Avenue de Pya-extension           55.5  48.2
Avenue de Pya                     55.2  47.0
Av. de la Liberation-extension    53.6  44.5
Five Roads Combined               74.4  64.7



52                                                                              Annex D
ANNEX D
PROJECT FILE DOCUMENTS
Le Contexte Spatial et Demographique
(Spatial and demographic context)
La croissance demographique dans l'espace togolais. ECKERT Hedi, Lome, (1974): CCL et PNUD
Recensement genirml de la population et de l'habitat (1981). Resultats definitifs, Lome, Direction de la
Statistique, 6 volumes.
La population du Togo en 1981, premieres observations sur les risultats provisoires du recensement de
1981. Lome, Direction de la Statistique et ORSTOM, BOURAIMA Nouridine et MARGUERAT Yves
(1983)
L'Etat et l'espace, 1'exemple de l'organisation territoriale du Togo. "Afrique Contemporaine" (La
Documentation Frangaise, Paris) no. 145, ler trimestre 1988. MARGUERAT Yves (1985)
La croissance des villes togolaises entre 1960 et 1981, et ses implications pour k developpement. Etudes
Togolaises de Population n 14. Lome, URD-UB, MARGUERAT Yves (1988)
Urbanisation et developpement ta Lome. Paris, Universite (doctorat de II1e cycle en sociologie), KENKOU
G.K. (1973)
Le Centre-ville de Lomi, evolution de la situation fonciare et de la trame urbaine. Lome, ORSTOM
(rapport d'elve en g6ographie), DIOP El Hadji Mohamed (1983)
Sector Related Documents (Documents sectoriel)
A. Urban Development and Urban Economy
Etudes de developpement urbain de la Ville de Lome. Synthese du rapport final de phase 1, OTUI
Urbanisme & Infrastructure (1989)
Etudes de developpement urbain de la Ville de Lome. Rapport interimaire de phase 1 (4 vols), Ministere
de l'Equipement et Poste et T6l6communications (1989)
Laplace des viles dans les cheminements migratoires: un exemple de migration kabye t travers le Togo.
L'insertion urbaine des migrants en Afrique. ORSTOM 'Colloques et seminaires", MARGUERAT Yves
(1987)
L'administration territoi,iake du Togo (1960-1990) ORSTOM. Lom6, MARGUERAT Yves (1991)
L'urbanisme et son evolution au Togo. (extrait de Les villes du Togo, 1984), Paris, ORSTOM (coll.
Etudes et theses), MARGUERAT Yves (1985)
La crise du logement et le financement de l'immobilier au Togo : le cas du centre urbain de Lome.
Lom6, UB-ESTEG, D'ALMEIDA Kokoe Edyme et OURO-AGOUDA Somuwe (1980)



Annex D                                                                                 53
B. Urban Road Rehabilitation
Assainissement cd pavage de voies it Lome, opiration pilote. Dossier d'appel d'offres provisoire, OTUI
Infrastructure, (1992)
C. Urban Sanitation and Environment
Etudes de developpement urbain de la ville de Lome. Rapport interimaire de phase 01: Zone de
restructuration de Be et des quartiers riverains de la Lagune, OTUI, (1992)
Zone de restructuration de Be cd des quartiers riverains de la lagune (phase 2): lot no. 3 -centres
sanitaires collectifs et bornes fontaines. Dossier d'appel d'offres: avant projet detaille - plans (edition
provisoire), OTUI Infrastructure (1990)
Zone de restructuration de Bc ct des quartiers riverains de la lagune (phase 2): lot 2 - reseaux eaux
use'es. Dossier d'appel d'offres: avant projet detaille - plans (edition provisoire), OTUI Infrastructure
(1990)
Zone de restructuration de Be et des quartiers riverains de la lagune (phase 2): lot I - voirie, drainage
dtprotection contre lerosion. Dossier d'appel d'offres: avant projet d6tail1e - plans (edition provisoire),
OTUI Infrastructure (1990)
D. Municipal Flnance and Urban Services Delivery
Etudes de d'veloppement urbain de la viUe de Lome. Rapport int6rimaire de phase 01: Aide A la
municipalite, OTUI, (1989)
Urbanisme, planification et gestion urbaines
Etude d'urbanisme de la vile de Lome. Paris, SMUH-BCEOM (1967-1968)
Recueil des textes legislatifs, urbanisme ct habitat (1920-1990). Lom6, DGUH, DGUH (1990)
Assainissement, eau potable
Ville de Lomei, approvisionnement en eau potable. Rapport final. Paris, SAFEGE (1982)
Alimentation en eau de Lome, analyse de la demande. Lome, Ministere des Travaux Publics, BCEOM-
BRGM (1984)
Etude du plan directeur d'assainissement de la ville de Lome. Rapport de 1Ire phase. Grenoble et Lome,
SOGREAH (1986)
Circulation et transports
Transport cd circulation urbaine a Lomc': diagnostic. Lome, Ministere du Plan, ALLOUCHE J. (1987)



COMP4ONENIS                             lohib                     100                        197gil                                             01
E It     A If  .|M  AAIM iJ   0 |A|S N   5F 14 J AII4 |J IJ JAI  | IC0 JN IF: 4 |A| jJJ |AIS10N ID J IFItA JIJIASrO  |I) JIF|MIA| A    |J;AISION 
A TRANSPORT ANO TRAFFtC IMPROVE1ENT
I RoadS Rahealan                                                                                                                                                                    w
* Beds we Woek S14rvi%kin
- TadhIMA     Ft                                                                                            _                                                                       Qo
2. Rod Sa5.Iy b d ad hOC  _I M10i
B. EVIRON14ENTALANO SANITARY
CONITIONS IMPROVEWENT                                                                                                                                                       m
I. Erosen nkht1~ - 
2. hpsmonnlrof  n       bk                                                                                                                                                   :? 
2. b,VwoeeffOfl of soeamem banka 
S. C*.g45ada80m                                                                               __________t_I
4. Dauaa of Ims souten b*a ns                                                                                                                                                > 
6. Sxbs. 114MOtisil 001110rl                                                                                                                                                 -
C. SUPPOATTOCOMMUNITY                                                                   .
PARTICIPATION IN BE                                                                                                                                                         LO)
I. Tim"ve in iiewetomeMilaM  mn-a111,114,                                                                                                                                    th 
and s41901 soI nao pIcs              __
2. ConsucboAn at pubC Ibta"                                                                                                                                                  6
S. ConskuGbon of aownur*   w                                                                                       _                         _C
4. 14.aojuOIeds
S. Stxos. pwW*19 aed works aWe            _                                                                                                                                  m
D URBAN-INSTITUTION BUILDING
I T.ctwua SIs taro   the 1mw*M__
2. OarugFbogr                                                                            _________  _ __
2. Cus  olund9                                                                                                         , 
4. Design of "1 MbUe land logmIry
6. P.pmaaon of a MeIwVa Dev.4012m.
PeqecI                                                                                                                 _ _  _  _ _  _  __  _     _ _  _  _



Annex F                                                                                 55
ANNEX F
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ 'OOOs)
FY and Quarters         Disbursement /period          Cumulative              Percentage
EXE
09/30/1995                   0.00                     0.00                     0%
12/31/1995                   0.83                     0.83                     3%
03/31/1996                    1.92                    2.75                     10%
06/30/1996                    1.10                    3.85                     14%
09/30/1998                   2.20                     O.OS                     22%
12/31/199w                   2.20                     8.26                     30%
03/31/1997                    2.20                    10.4"                    38%
06/30/1997                    2.20                    12.66                    40%
EM
09/30/1997                    1.65                    14.31                    52%
12/31/1997                   1.66                     15.96                    58%
03131/1998                    1.65                    17.61                    64%
06/30/1998                    1.65                    19.26                    70%
YE#
09/30/1998                    1.10                    20.36                    74%
12131/1998                    1.10                    21.47                    78%
03/31/1999                    1.10                    22.57                    82%
06130/1999                    1.10                    23.67                    86%
LXI
09130/1999                    1.10                    24.77                    90%
12/31/1999                    1.10                    25.87                    94%
03/31/2000                    1.10                    26.97                    98%
06/30/2000                    0.55                    27.52                    100%



56                                                                              Annex G
ANNEX G
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA SUPERVISION
Expected Skills        Staff
Missions                   Activity                    Requirements           Input
(sw)
Mission 1     Supervision mission                 Procurement                   9
First year    Project Launching                   Engineering
Seminar with Steering Committee    Contract Management
Procurement review for civil works  Urban Planning/
and studies.                       Economics
Mission 2     Supervision mission to review start-up   Engineering              6
First year    and implementation of civil works, and  Procurement
procurement services.
Mission 3     Supervision misssion to review      Contract Management           3
Second year    executing agencies performances and    Financial analysis
audits, and technical assistance
performances.
Mission 4     Supervision to review overall progress  Municipal Finance/        8
Second year    of the project with emphasis on     fiscality
resources mobilization and participation Urban
of LGs in urban services financing; to  Planning/economics
finalize annual program of infrastruc-   Engineering
ture rehabilitation with the Steering  Community development
Committee.
Mission 5     Supervision mission to review progress  Engineering               4
Second year    in civil works, studies, and procure-    Urban planning/
ment for urban services and civil  economics
works.                             Procurement
Following years   Same patterns as for Mission 3 to                          Year 3-15
Mission 5 (including one to prepare                         Year 4-15
PCR). Mid-term review meeting to be                         Year 5-15
held.



Annex H                                                                                                        57
ANNEX H
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
COMPARISON OF ACTUAL VERSUS PROJECTED TARGETS
Performance monitoring. The monitoring indicators to measure project performance and the
Agency's efficiency will be the following: (a) number of management contracts with beneficiaries; (b)
number of contracts signed with enterprises; (c) number of contracts completed; (d) percentage of
contracts completed on time and on budget; (e) percentage of payments to contractors within 30 days of
invoice reception; (f) number of man-months of employment created; and (g) average time for processing
contracts. Below is a table indicating the desired numbers and percentages to be achieved for each project
year.
Indicator                                 Year I     Year 2      Year 3       Year 4       Year 5
No. of contracts with beneficiaries and
Cummulated Amounts (US$m) (both per
year)__                                     _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _   __ _ _  _ _
No. of contracts signed per year
(Design/supervision + works/services)                                              _
No. of works contracts completed
(cummulated)
Percentage of contracts completed on time
Percentage of contracts completed on
budget
Percentage of payments to contractors
within 30 days of invoice receipt (per year)
made from Special Account
Average time for processing contracts
between bid opening and contract award
working days (working days)
Percentage salaries/total costs
Percentage low salaries (unskilled
workers)/total salaries
No. of man/months of employment created
per  year__ _ _ _ _                                                           _ _   _ _ _



58                                                                        Annex I
ANNEX I
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
IMPROVEMENT OF THE SANITARY ENVIRONMENT
OF THE LAKES AND OF THE LAKESIDE NEIGHBORHOODS
Improvement of the environment in the pilot area hinges on one main component--
wastewater drainage--which is based essentially on a public latrine development program and
better control of private independent drainage.
Of the four drainage scenarios examined, it is proposed that the variant based on
surface impoundment around the Zio lagoon be adopted, because of its major impact on the
environment and its potential for extension as an overall drainage solution for the entire city
of Lome.
To be effective, this appreciable improvement in sanitary conditions will necessarily
have to be based on implementation of certain supporting measures, viz.:
-     cleanup of the banks of the Lac de Be
-     drainage of a demonstration area on the south bank
-     development of plantations.
The cleanup of the Lac de Be must only be envisaged if the people living around it
are provided with other sites for disposal of their excreta and wastes of all sorts and if
pollution carried down by runoff is significantly reduced in the future.
Construction of works to prevent erosion on the north bank and the setting up of a
precollection system for household refuse are accordingly the minimum support measures
required.
Finally, this environmental renewal program can only prove successful if the
population is prepared to use the facilities provided, and above all to ensure their systematic
upkeep. This change in mentality can only be brought about by means of a prolonged health-
education campaign that will have to instill elementary concepts of public and personal
hygiene in the people and develop in them an automatic concern for protection of the
environment.
This is the price that must be paid if there is to be hope for improvement of the
quality of life in the pilot area.
The project was appraised before the Bank's new Disclosure Policy (BP 17.50) went
into effect. A copy of the full environmental study as well as this annex has been provided to
the Project Information Center.



Annex J                                                                                  59
ANNEX J
TOGO URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Studies, Consultancies, and Technical Assistance
Consultant seces / technical assistance              Agency     Type of          (Amount In US$ 'OOOs
and training                                       responsible    proc.   Year 1  Year 2 Year 3  Year 4   Year 5
Transport and traffic improvement                                -          -       -       -       -
Pre- design studies    STCC      SL         100     150    150      100
Engineering studies and supervision    AGETUR   SL        150      200    200      200       70
Traffic studies    STCC       SL                195    200
Technical assistance  STCC         SS        150     150    200
Environmental and sanitary conditions
Improvement
Hydrogeological studies    STCC       SL        400
Audit of household waste    STCC       SL                 190
Preparatory studies    STCC       SL         75
Engineering studies and supervision    AGETUR   SL        300      340
Support to Community Participation
Preparatory studies    STCC       SL         45     100    100       100
Engineering and supervision studies   AGETUR    SL         55     150    200       100      50
Training   STCC         SS         100     100    100      100       65
Urban Institution building        ______=_____
Technical studies for the municipalities    STCC  SL         200     300    200      240
Training    STCC         SL                  60    100      100
Support to working groups    STCC        SL
design of the urban land registry    STCC    SL        200      500    160
preparation of the Municipal Development Project    STCC    SL                                 400     340
Oversight of the Program  STCC         SS        165      125    125      125      125



60                                                      Manuel d'Execution du Projet
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN
MANUEL D'EXECUTION DU PROJET
TABLE DES MATIERES
SECTION 1: LE PROJET
1-1    Cadre du Projet
1-2    Objectifs et etendue du Projet
1-3    Description du Projet
1-4    Couits estimatifs
1-5    Plan de financement
1-6    Coordination des donateurs ou bailleurs de fonds
1-7    Principales conditionnalites
SECTION 2: DISPOSITIONS D'EXECUTION
2-1    Organisation et gestion
2-2    Modalit6s d'ex6cution par composantes
2-3    Del6gation de maitrise d'ouvrage pour les travaux de genie civil
2-4    Dispositions specifiques par composantes
SECTION 3: PLAN D'EXECUTION
3-1    Calendrier d'execution du projet
3-2    Calendrier d'acquisition des biens et services
3-3    Indicateurs-cle de suivi d'execution physique
SECTION 4: ACQUISITIONS
4-1    Modalites de passation de march6s
4-2    Document a soumettre a l'IDA pour avis
4-3    Procedures specifiques de passation de marche
SECTION 5: DEBOURSEMENTS
5-1    Categories de deboursement et reallocation
5-2    Compte sp6cial
5-3    Retrait du compte de cr6dit
5-4    Fonds de contre-partie



Manuel d'Execution du Projet                                                    61
SECTION 6: TENUE DES COMPTES
6-1   : Systeme comptable et budgetaire
6-2   : Termes de reference des auditeurs
6-3    Calendrier d'intervention des auditeurs
SECTION 7: SUIVI ET EVALUATION
7-1    Planning de supervision de l'IDA
7-2   : Supervision interne
7-3    Contribution de la DGUH a la supervision
ANNEXES
ANNEXE 1: Modele de convention de la delegation de maitrise d'ouvrage pour des travaux de
genie civil
ANNEXE 2: Modele de dossier d'appel d'offres equipement
ANNEXE 3: Modele de lettre d'invitation pour les services de consultants
ANNEXE 4: Modele de dossier d'appel d'offres pour les travaux de genie civil
ANNEXE 5: Lettre de deboursement



CHARI
Page 1 of 1
Republic of Togo
LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
COMMITTEE OF BE                   CCGU               -         MUNICIPALITY OF LOME
1       LF         ~~~~~STCC    |     EMa
.                  .
I  .I  
AGETUR                        
~~~~GENERAL DIRECTORATE                          SERETARIA
I~~~~ I
TECHNICAL DIRECTORATE                               FINANCIAL DIRECTORATE
Hierarchial Relations
- . . . .   Contractual Relations
-  - -       Inforamtion Flow



Lome Urban Development Project
Environmental Conditions in Be
'-ind-. -.r                                                          -X
!L.
* ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pa~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~b






Lom6 Urban Development Project
Interlocking Concrete Blocks Pavement Technique (Porto-Novo)
L.|  ,  z    0   0  ';  !   A      t       _  u  A'y






Lome Urban Develppment Project
Roads to be Rehabilitated under the Project
.1w>4 0
w,,E                                 0s   |    t        '   '.e 
I ~~~



I



4  -                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~TOGO
-    -       (                                         ~~~~~~LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
. - \  :                                                ~~~~~PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN DE LOME
,'   /  '.,;--N'-                        ,                                            PRIORITY ROAD IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
s.1o-' . *^',30-;* f '<< PROGRAMME PRIORITAIRE DE REHABILITATION DES VOIRIES
*;a  ,,rx,   'S!a\ ,! !" a~l                                                  PILOT OPERATION /OPERATION PILOTE       PROJECT /PROJET
fflr9<  -ZiB  . *: i  \                                  <>~~~~~~~~~~~~~( RUE AKROMA (I1800m    0  BLVD. DE L'OTI (2650m.)
)-5| Y_\p $| # t;Z;1 t \ @ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUE AMEMAKA-LIBA (1 175m.)                                 O     BLVD. MALFASSA (I1900m.)
I    40z                 N-t?,,_  R                                                              BLVD. DES APOTRES (I 300m.)          0AVE. DE LA LIBERATION (I1150m.)
t ; F 3\pg: 1 . \ W ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AVE, F HOUPHOUET-BOIGNY (I 600m.)    3                                    9AVE. PYA (2040m.)
, X tAt8tzz;>ss_//|; tt ................... ||i ,_-- \ ......... >~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
FRNIRE NERAINLES' 
Gvcsvlfrh Hon nAnc   N   A|tt|t|-it^s                              fw-          /a<_
nbrnlusofTh worSpon   I     "s oe6 -0  - ,t w 4   si o                                             X(\ 
Grop Te dnomnofonsuse   -JI   pX*|+ffgE|0$}-l85;if   f -r - *                                                         )  GANA\ i   iNIGRI
onth:smopSonot Imply, onte  1 - #l ^ --<sCIl ^~  ~  _
_                           >~~                                                                                                    _5.-\     -   0  8ivohl of Benin  -4 _






TOGO .
LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN DE LOME
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM                                                 -                                                                              .
PROGRAMME D'AMELIORATION DE L'ENVIRONNEMENT
ANTI-EROSION WORKS                 UNDERGROUND DRAINAGE
PROTECTONANTI-EROSIVE              DRAINAGE ENTERRE
rm.  DREDGING                       A    TREE PLANTING
~---'DRAGAGE                          PLANTATIONS
LANDFILL                           LAGOON TREATMENT
DEPOT DE VASES ET DE SABLES       LAGUNAGE
SOUTH BANK DEVELOPMENT
AMENAGEMENT DE LA RIVE SUD
---iNTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES'   *\^_
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES  %sv//_t
0 200  A00   600   800  1000
METERS
,gX.~~~*
~~~~-~~ '                                                                            -    .      
y~~ ;-
-_,NIGER      0
BURKINA FASO     ->    r
ThesAX    pX-10 i   >   \ BENIN  1
a~~~~~~~
.4wfr~Xr                 .   -                                            '                                                                               o,.   /    0i
Inl rnitd~W*ld B                                                                                                                        0   ' ti4,   .  .   a  :    GHANA   - i
Grep. Th.minaonst    0,t _X-,                                                                                        
orth-i  -Eg*  =     11  
0O  .,,thi  n ~owrt >o4    ->   *             -        ,   -                               
_   s0 c boundories                                                                                                                         p_3               Bight of Benin  53 _
-o    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -             -                                                                                  Bigh~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t of Benin    t,






