                                   Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 26181

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                              (TF-29424; IDA-26200)

                                      ON A

                                     CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.6 MILLION (US$26.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF TOGO

                                    FOR THE

                       LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                   June 27, 2003




Water and Urban II
Country Department 13
Africa Region

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective 02/21/2003)

                               Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                 CFAF 1,000 = US$ 1.63
                                     US$ 1.0 = CFAF 612.16

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1    December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AGETUR  Agency for Urban Works Management (Agence d'Exécution des Travaux Urbains)
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CCB     Bè Community Center
CCGU    Urban Management Coordination Committee
CCS     Coordination and Monitoring Unit
CDB     Bè Development Committee
IDA     International Development Agency
NGO     Non-governmental Organization
QAG     Quality Assurance Group
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SME     Small and Medium-sized Enterprise
STCC    Technical Secretariat of the Project Steering Committee (Secretariat Technique du comité
        de Coordination)




                             Vice President:       Callisto E. Madavo
                 Country Manager/Director:         Antoinette M. Sayeh
                   Sector Manager/Director:        Inger Andersen

Task Team Leader/Task Manager:  Alison Cave

                                       REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                 LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
    6. Sustainability                                                                15
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
    9. Partner Comments                                                              18
    10. Additional Information                                                       18
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             20
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
    Annex 8. English Translation of Borrower's Completion Report                     29
    Annex 9. Borrower's Completion Report                                            40
IBRD Maps. No. 24123; 24124

Project ID: P002865                                                      Project Name: LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Alison C. N. Cave                                           TL Unit: AFTU2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 28, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                   L/C/TF Number: TF-29424; IDA-26200
   Country/Department: TOGO                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (47%); General water, sanitation and flood
                            protection sector (28%); Sub-national government administration
                            (18%); Other social services (4%); Central government
                            administration (3%)
                  Theme: Access to urban services for the poor (P); Civic engagement,
                            participation and community driven development (P); Municipal
                            governance and institution building (P); Environmental policies and
                            institutions (S); Decentralization (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/06/1990                                        Effective: 02/23/1995
   Appraisal:    05/24/1992                                            MTR: 12/30/1997                11/24/1997
    Approval:    05/31/1994                                         Closing: 12/31/1999               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TOGO/AGETUR TOGO; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           TOGO/STCC
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Edward V. K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Antoinette M. Sayeh                            Olivier Lafourcade
Sector Manager:                 Inger Andersen                                 Alberto Harth
Team Leader at ICR:             Alison C.N. Cave                               Bernard Delaval
ICR Primary Author:             Alison C. N. Cave; Fanny Barrett


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:UN

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:U


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Sector Issues at Project Preparation

Togo is a low-income country with good development potential but a difficult political and economic
environment. At the time of appraisal, the major issues confronting the urban sector stemmed from rapid,
unplanned and unmanaged urban growth in the primary city of Lomé: lack of economic opportunities for
unskilled urban residents (mainly immigrants from rural areas), and poor social, sanitary and
environmental conditions. Community-based development was constrained by a number of factors
including lack of capacity to design and implement micro-projects at the grass-root level. Although a
decentralization effort was underway, and Togo had one of the most advanced decentralization frameworks
in the sub-region, implementation was slow due to the political crisis of the early 1990's and to lack of local
level capacity. The Decentralization Laws, although ratified, were never enacted.

At the time of preparation, the country was still in the throes of the political and economic crisis. Project
appraisal was completed in March 1992. Due to the political situation, the project was put on hold and a
post-appraisal mission was conducted in November 1993. By then, faced with a deteriorated political and
economic situation, the Government of Togo and the Bank agreed that the project should focus on
improving the urban economic outlook and on employment generation.

Project Objectives

Given the changes in Togo's political environment over the long period of preparation, the project
objectives changed to reflect changing priorities. The original objective of the project was to support
decentralization, environmental sanitation (drainage, solid wastes, pollution of the Bè Lagoon and issues
affecting the water table) and traffic improvements. However, project post-appraisal determined that
decentralization was unlikely, or would proceed at a very slow pace, given the political crisis and the global
lack of trust between central government, the population, which also precluded local elections. Concerns
about implementation capacity were addressed in project design.

The revised project objective, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (Report 11135 of April 26, 1994,
para. 2.2), was to help the Government implement its urban development policy and to reinstate economic
growth hindered by the political turmoil. Longer-term objectives were to: (a) strengthen the ability of local
government to administer the city with better defined lines of authority, responsibility and sources of
revenue; (b) lay the groundwork for innovations needed to reform the management of urban development in
Togo; (c) bring about progressive and permanent improvement in urban environmental management; and
(d) contribute to poverty alleviation.

Project Design

Along with a change in project objectives, post-appraisal noted that the project implementation capacity of
central and Lomé city governments had been greatly reduced by the turmoil and by non-payment of and
repeated strikes by civil servants - with the conclusion that another means of project implementation should
be found while government capacity was recovering. The design incorporated lessons learned from a
similar project in neighboring Benin: (a) a successful means of jump-starting economic growth and
employment was to promote small and medium enterprises (SMEs) using labor-intensive techniques; and
(b) participative planning of physical investments and efficient contract management were key to restoring
trust among the public and private sectors and the community. The Beninese model delegated project



                                                      - 2 -

implementation to 2 semi-public agencies, one for project coordination and studies and the other for
management of works contracts, with assistance from NGOs for community participation aspects.

The project focused on Lomé, Togo's capital and primary city, as a first step in an overall urban
development program. The project was designed to achieve its objectives through: (a) execution of priority
urban works using labor-intensive methods (to improve employment and incomes for the urban poor); (b)
promotion of small contractors in the construction sector; (c) the active participation of local residents,
community groups and NGOs in neighborhood environmental improvement; and (d) carrying out studies to
help: (i) strengthen the ability of local government to manage urban growth; (ii) bring about progressive
and permanent improvement in urban environmental management; (iii) prepare reforms needed to improve
local resource mobilization and strengthen the role played by cities in national development. As local
municipal capacity was being built, the project was to be implemented by: (a) the technical secretariat of
the project steering committee (Secretariat Technique du Comité de Coordination - STCC) in the Ministry
of Equipment and Mines, responsible for sector studies and overall project coordination; (b) an
international NGO, for the Community Participation component, and (c) an autonomous nongovernmental
agency for urban works management (Agence d'Exécution des Travaux Urbains - AGETUR) to facilitate
the award of civil works contracts to local SMEs. Formally established in 1994, AGETUR had delegated
authority from the Government to undertake general contracting for urban infrastructure works for
municipalities, Ministries and other entities. The city of Lomé was tangentially involved, as a member of
the project steering committee, but had no formal implementation role in recognition of its weak capacity.

In retrospect, the implementation arrangements were key to the success of the project. The contribution of
the communities and of the implementing agencies was a significant factor in the achievement of project
objectives, given the weak local government capacity and unstable political climate following the crisis.
Although it had severe difficulties at the beginning, AGETUR's ultimate success is due mostly to its private
sector management expertise and experience in public works contracting. Perhaps more importantly its
private legal status allowed it to bypass the public sector's cumbersome contracting and payment
procedures while maintaining a higher quality of service and discipline than is typically found in public
agencies.

The project was designed to be implemented over four years. However, the original closing date of
December 31, 1999 was extended three times to December 31, 2002 due to three suspensions, discussed
below, which were outside the control of the implementing agencies.

Assessment of Objectives

The objectives of the project were clear and reflected Government priorities for the urban sector and the
overall political and economic situation. The objectives were also in line with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) to promote sustainable, private sector-led growth and poverty reduction
through, inter alia, improving (decentralized) governance to restore macroeconomic stability, providing
basic urban services, and creating a favorable environment for private sector activity. The objectives were
realistic and clearly linked to project components.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the original objective.

3.3 Original Components:
The four components identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) were:




                                                      - 3 -

Transport and Traffic Improvement (US$12.7 million): Support for a city-wide program designed to
improve transport and traffic conditions, consisting of labor-intensive works to be executed by small
contractors. The transport and traffic component was designed to improve vehicular traffic and transport
in the poorer neighborhoods. It included the improvement and rehabilitation of the existing road network,
and rehabilitation of the drainage system to improve Lomé's environment and hygiene and upgrade living
conditions.

Improvement of Environmental and Sanitary Conditions (US$7.0 million): This component aimed at
ensuring progressive and permanent improvement in urban environmental management . It concentrated on
improving the environment and sanitary conditions of the Bè lagoon and its surrounding neighborhoods.
Activities supported under this component included: (i) anti-erosion works to protect the northern banks of
the lagoon; (ii) improvement of the southern banks; (iii) partial dredging of the lagoon; (iv) drainage of two
pilot zones in the old Bè neighborhood; and (v) disposal and treatment of household and industrial waste.

Support to Community Participation in Bè (US$3.7 million): Establishment of a program to support
community development and community involvement in operations to improve the sanitary, social and
economic environment in Bè, an old and low-income neighborhood. Activities included training and
community awareness of environmental management; public latrine construction and local management;
community center construction; and community microprojects.

Urban Institution Building (US$4.7 million): Program to promote institution and capacity building in the
area of urban management. Activities under this component provided the support and expertise needed to
identify and prepare for urban sector reform. The project financed preparatory studies for a Municipal
Development Action Plan primarily targeting local resource mobilization.

3.4 Revised Components:
Project components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality Assurance Group (QAG) did not exist at the time of project preparation, and no evaluation of
the project's quality at entry was performed. An ex post application of QAG criteria to assess the Quality at
Entry of the project leads to a rating of satisfactory. These criteria include project concept, objectives and
approach; technical and economic analyses; social and stakeholder aspects; financial management aspects;
institutional aspects; readiness for implementation; and risks and sustainability.

(a) Project concept, objectives and approach. The project concept was appropriate for what was needed
at the time: a labor-intensive public works program to provide employment and social and economic
infrastructure to improve living conditions for urban residents, with some basic institution-building
activities. Project objectives were relevant to the priorities set forth by the Government and the Bank in its
CAS, as noted above, were realistic about what should be attempted and could be achieved and were
responsive to the changing political and economic context in Togo. The implementation arrangements were
simple and direct: only one responsible ministry and a single, specialized implementation agency for each
component, under the coordination of a central committee. A detailed institutional analysis in the SAR
documents the decision to involve the Lomé city government as a recipient of institution-building activities
and not as an implementing agency, due to its weak capacity and lack of decentralized authority. The
project focused instead on establishing the fundamentals for improved municipal management:
reorganization of urban services, establishment of a transparent tax base and improvement in municipal
revenue collection, support to development of an urban sector policy to clarify central/local responsibilities.
The choice of delegating works procurement and supervision to AGETUR was to ensure transparent and



                                                       - 4 -

timely contracting, deemed necessary to promote SMEs. However, assessment of SME capacity was
overly optimistic, and design lacked adequate up-front training for SMEs in bidding and works planning.
A competitively-selected NGO, CARE-Togo, was chosen to implement the community microproject:
although an international NGO, it had a well-established local base and staff fluent in local languages.
Studies, policy and practice guidelines were the responsibility of the technical secretariat of the
coordinating committee. Although originally a public sector entity, STCC evolved over the life of the
project into a private urban planning consulting agency, CITAFRIC.

The project design lacked a logical framework to guide project implementation, as preparation preceded use
of this tool at the Bank. As a result, although the Staff Appraisal Report provided measurable physical
output targets, there were no outcome indicators to demonstrate how objectives would be achieved and
ultimately assessed. Specific performance indicators were to be determined during implementation, which
hampered monitoring. In addition, evaluation suffered from lack of a baseline study against which to
monitor progress.

(b) Technical and economic analysis. An economic analysis of urban road rehabilitation was carried out,
as this was the only aspect for which an economic rate-of-return could be determined. Road works were
prioritized according to this analysis. An environmental analysis was conducted as part of project
preparation to determine the principal causes of pollution of the Bè Lagoon. Other technical analyses (i.e.
for works) were not done at preparation, but were part of project implementation. For the most part, this
caused no problem. However, one construction project would have benefitted from earlier technical
studies. The decision to build macrophytic latrines, using "green" technology, was based on experience
from Benin, however the design failed to take into account differences in usage patterns and the latrines did
not work.

(c) Social and stakeholder aspects. The project was designed after an intensive in-country participatory
dialogue with participation from government agencies, NGOs and the Bank, as well as with representatives
of the Bè community. Preparatory studies looked at gender aspects of project activities and women were
actively included in both project design and implementation. Given the lack of decentralization, Lomé city
government did not participate as actively as it might have; the discussion was more with the central
government authorities in charge of municipal affairs. In retrospect, however, more effort should have
been made to bring the municipality on board with project goals and reforms.

(d) Financial management aspects: These were not treated specifically in the SAR as the implementing
agencies were to be established as a condition of Board Presentation. However, establishment of a
project-accounting system satisfactory to IDA was a condition of project effectiveness.

(e) Risks and sustainability. All risks that were identified in the SAR were valid and discussed frankly.
The project put in place appropriate mitigating measures, but the main risk associated with project
implementation was largely outside the project's control. This concerned the country's continued political
instability, the difficult economic situation caused by two years of political turmoil, and the decision to
devalue the CFA franc by 100%. The risk of further deterioration in economic conditions and hence the
inability of the Government to provide counterpart funds and service its debt was identified, but no
mitigating measures could be established within the project. As concerns institutional risks, the SAR
identified but underassessed the risks associated with using a newly established implementing agency
(AGETUR) and the weak capacity of local SMEs.

(f) Institutional aspects. The project's overall coordination and its relationship with the implementing
agencies, AGETUR and STCC, were discussed thoroughly, and project implementation arrangements were


                                                      - 5 -

very well defined in the SAR. Preparation was extremely thorough, and comprehensive components were
prepared and presented in the SAR. In hindsight, implementation would have benefitted from clearer terms
of reference and a more participation from the City of Lomé during project preparation.

(g) Readiness for implementation: The two implementing agencies were created and staff were hired
before effectiveness of the project. A number of activities which today would have been done prior to
negotiations were left as conditions of Board Presentation and Effectiveness. These included: (a) legal
establishment of the implementing agencies (including financial management arrangements); (b)
counterpart funding arrangements; (c) technical analyses and studies for works projects; and (d) work
program for the first year of project implementation. In general, these did not slow implementation, with
the exception of counterpart funding arrangements and the capacity of the newly-established AGETUR.
Monitoring and evaluation arrangements were weak: they focused exclusively on outputs and not on
outcomes, several indicators were left to be identified during implementation and no baseline data were
established.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Attainment of development objectives is rated satisfactory. It should be noted that, in the absence of
outcome indicators, this evaluation is based on output indicators and progress noted in Aide-Mémoires and
PSRs. Again, given the lack of baseline data, the exact amount of progress is difficult to determine, and is
rated satisfactory where progress has been observed.

Late payment of counterpart funds and suspensions due to accumulation of arrears, affecting all IDA
projects in Togo, slowed project implementation. Ultimately there were three suspensions during the project
(January 1, 1999 to April 14, 1999; November 14, 2000 to August 15, 2001; and January 1, 2002 to the
present), however progress towards the objectives was steady, as noted in supervision mission
Aide-Mémoires and PSRs. At a time when other IDA-supported projects stopped entirely, this project was
able to continue at a limited pace. At the end of the project, it was evident that, in spite of the suspensions,
capacity built in STCC, AGETUR and the local communities enabled the development objectives to be
attained.

The project was extended 3 times to compensate for the periods of suspension and ultimately disbursed
95% of the credit amount.

Immediate Objective: Help reinstate economic growth hindered by political turmoil

While by itself, the project could not be expected to restore growth, the project was successful in creating
jobs and supporting the SME sector, even if the sustainability of these achievements unlikely. The basic
infrastructure component created approximately 60,000 man-months (1.2 million man-days) of
employment in a period of extreme job scarcity due to the country's socio-economic situation, exceeding the
project target of 1.1 million man-days. SMEs involved in the road building and drainage works in Lome
received training and their capabilities improved substantially during the project period. Approximately 50
SMEs were awarded at least 1 contract; and 36 were awarded 2 or more. AGETUR's contracting
procedures ensured transparent and timely bidding processes, timely payment and appropriately-sized
works for the nascent local SMEs. However, as a result of the three suspensions and lack of financing
from other donors, some SMEs were forced out of business while others left the country in search of work.
The community microproject component promoted more effective management and rehabilitation of public
markets which should improve the economic functioning of the market (i.e. prices will be lower and



                                                     - 6 -

revenues steadier if market days and stocks are not lost to flooding or fires). Improvement of market
functioning particularly improved the welfare of women, and most vendors are women.

Longer Term Objectives:

Objective 1: Strengthen the ability of local government to manage urban growth through a studies
component. The objective was largely achieved. All studies were carried out and recommendations
applied where feasible. In particular, the following activities led to a strengthening of municipal
management capacity in Lomé:

l the organization audit of the city's administrative structures led to a reorganization of municipal
     services and abandonment of inefficient force-account maintenance of urban infrastructure. As noted
     above, transparent, timely and efficient contracting and payment procedures ensured that work was
     completed on time and within budget;

l the Urban Sector Study led to the drafting of a City Code (Code des Communes), which clarifies the
     role of municipal authorities. Although not yet applied, this provides a tool for the future
     decentralization effort;

l An agency was established for market management (Etablissement Public de l'Aménagement des
     Marchés - EPAM), which works with vendor associations created during the project. Collection of
     market fees has improved and markets have better access to services as a result.

Objective 2: Permanently improve urban environmental management. Urban environmental
management has improved as a result of project activities and has been sustained until project closing. In
particular, sanitation infrastructure and environmental improvement activities have mitigated
pollution/erosion of the Bè Lagoon. Once choked with water-hyacinths and malodorous, the lagoon is now
clear of vegetation and the water quality has improved significantly as verified by annual water analyses.
Anti-erosive measures have secured the banks of the lagoon and turned them into public green space. A
pilot waste management operation has extended coverage to the entire city and ensures collection of solid
wastes, although future activities will need to focus on intermediary and final dump sites. Residents of Bè
have been trained on environmental management and are more environmentally aware, as evident from
changed behaviors. Although construction of public latrines has improved effluent management, the
latrines have not worked as well as forecast, particularly the macrophytic "green latrines," which were not
well-designed for the ultimate usage. An estimated 50,000 residents have benefited from environmental
improvements.

Objective 3: Help prepare reforms in local resource mobilization. This objective was successfully met.
All local resource mobilization activities were carried out and the project achieved major reform in the
calculation and collection of municipal tax revenues. Specific achievements of the project include: (a)
development of a cartographic urban land registry (simple cadastre); (b) assignment of street addresses and
numbering of land parcels; (c) simple and transparent methods for evaluating property values and income
tax; (d) computerized tax registry; (e) improved tax collection procedures and penalties for nonpayment.
Although the SAR set a target of a 5% per annum increase in municipal revenues, this was not tracked
during project implementation. Despite requests, no information was provided by the municipality which
would have enabled an assessment of the evolution of municipal revenues over the project period.

Objective 4: Alleviate urban poverty. The project achieved its objective, as measured by the project



                                                      - 7 -

indicators: number of days of labor created, timeliness of works implementation and payment. Other, less
tangible achievements can be attributed to improved living conditions: better access to work, school and
social services due to improved drainage and traffic flows, better accessibility and working conditions in
markets, access to training and medical care at Bè Community Center and improved environmental
conditions leading to fewer water and airborne diseases. It would have been helpful had the project
included indicators to measure these impacts. As noted above, improvement in market conditions improved
the welfare of women, who make up the majority of vendors.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The project components were fully implemented, with one exception, and achieved, or exceeded, their target
outputs. A favorable exchange rate and savings on works procurement led to additional project funds,
which were allocated for priority works and studies above those in the original project. However, these
funds were not fully disbursed due to the last two country suspensions.

Component 1: Transport and Traffic Improvement (US$11.3 million). The objectives and output
indicators for this component were extremely clear and easily measurable: (a) improvement of roads; (b)
improved transportation for the city's poorer residents; and (c) promotion of labor-intensive urban works.
The component contributed to the immediate project objective and to longer-term objectives 2 and 4,
through employment generation and improved drainage and accessibility, particularly in Lomé's poorer
neighborhood. Again, no outcome indicators were defined and it is therefore difficult to determine the
degree to which objectives were reached. In particular, confusion relating to the traffic study, detailed
below, meant that the objective of improving transportation for the poor was difficult to assess.

This component comprised 3 main activities; of these, only improvement and rehabilitation of the existing
road network was clearly linked to project and component objectives. The other 2 activities related to
traffic safety and were designed to be implemented in conjunction with another IDA operation, the
Transport Rehabilitation Project. This was less clearly defined, and one activity - a traffic study - did not
produce all of the expected results. There was considerable confusion over which project and which
implementing agency was responsible for this study, and neither project had included financing for
implementation of the expected recommendations. The study therefore did not produce some of its initial
targets, such as a strategy for improving the mobility of Lomé's poor.

In terms of physical outputs, the transport and traffic improvement component met and exceeded its initial
goals. All original works being completed, the remaining project funds were allocated to second-tier priority
road and drainage works, only some of which were completed before the last two suspensions and ultimate
project closing. Specific outputs, and contributions to project objectives, are as follows:

(a) Improvement and rehabilitation of the existing road network: All of the roads identified for
improvement in the SAR have been upgraded and the remaining funds (due to favorable exchange rates)
went to finance other priority roads and drainage. Most were completed on time however some works were
delayed for a few months due to shortages of materials such as cement and steel reinforcement bars, and
periods of suspension.

The following originally planned road works were completed: (a) drainage and paving of 2.27 kms of
Boulevard de l'Oti (36 lots awarded among 16 SMEs); (b) drainage and paving of 2.39 kms of Avenue
Gakli-Djidjolé/Pya (25 lots awarded among 14 SMEs); (c) drainage and paving of 2.05 kms of the Avenue
Pya extension (19 lots awarded among 12 SMEs); (d) drainage and paving of 1.10 kms of the Avenue de la
Libération extension (15 lots and 9 SMEs); and (e) drainage and paving of 1.9 kms of Boulevard de
Malfakassa ( 29 lots and 13 SMEs).



                                                      - 8 -

In addition, the project financed the following works, not originally planned in the SAR: (a) rehabilitation
of 2.40 kms of Rue Notre Dame des Apôtres, involving 4 SMEs working on 7 lots; and (b) a storm water
retention pond off the Avenue Pya extension, not initially planned but deemed indispensable during the
rehabilitation work, could not be finished owing to the disbursement suspension.

All paving works were carried out using labor-intensive techniques. Employment created amounted to
about 60,000 man-months.

(b) Road safety actions and spot improvements: The project was to address specific danger zones,
identified through a study and road safety plan carried out under the Transport Rehabilitation Project, and
the study comprising the following sub-component. Specific activities included: (a) construction of traffic
circles: two on Avenue Gakli-Djidjolé/Avenue Pya and the Avenue Pya extension and two on Boulevard de
l'Oti and Boulevard de Malfakassa, and (b) installation of traffic lights at problematic intersections:
Avenue Gakli-Djidjolé/ Route de Kpalimé and Rue Notre Dame des Apôtres/Boulevard du 13 janvier. No
specific targets were established for this subcomponent, and it was not clearly linked to either project or
component objectives, therefore its contribution cannot be determined.

(c) Traffic study and technical assistance: A "Lome Traffic Study" was financed under this component
and a team from the General Directorate for Transportation identified frequent-accident locations in Lome.
The project undertook spot improvements based on these recommendations to reduce accident risks and
enhance user safety (see above). The traffic study helped identify the second-tier priority works, however it
did not address other issues defined at preparation: definition of the traffic unit's mandate, organization,
staffing and logistics and a strategy for improving the mobility of Lomé's poor without State subsidies.

Component 2: Improvement of Environmental and Sanitary Conditions (US$8 million). This
component contributed directly to long-term project objective 2, to permanently urban environmental
management. In accordance with Togolese priorities, it concentrated on the Bè Lagoon and surrounding
neighborhoods, most of which were low-income. In this way, the component also contributed to the
long-term objective of poverty alleviation by improving the living conditions in poorer neighborhoods.

All of the planned works were executed. Only physical outputs were defined and monitored and no
outcome indicators enable evaluation of impact. However, an annual environmental analysis of the Lagoon
documents the improvement of water quality, and direct observation shows improvement in the
environmental and sanitary conditions of the neighborhoods. As defined in the SAR, the project financed
(a) Erosion control works to protect the northern banks of the lagoon, comprising tree planting, drainage
and road improvements; (b) Improvement of the southern banks of Lac de Bè, including tree planting,
public lighting, and installation of a railing along the southern banks of Lac Est and Lac de Bè. The railing
had to be redesigned as a fence to keep out grazing animals that were destroying the plants, however today
the banks have been transformed into a park enjoyed by community residents and maintained by
community youth; (c) Dredging of Lac de Bè, which removed 200,000 m3 of sediment along with water
weeds; (d) Drainage in the Bè neighborhood to lower the ground water table, comprising planting of trees
with evapo-transpiration properties, and construction of a drainage network with inspection wells; and (e)
Sludge management audit: organization and performance audit of the management of household and
industrial wastes and sewer sludge. This audit gave rise to a pilot operation to test the ability of small
enterprises to collect, sort, treat and dump household wastes. The pilot was successful and the project
financed a study to extend coverage to the entire city.




                                                       - 9 -

Component 3: Support to Community Participation (US$3.2 million). This component contributed
directly to long-term objectives 2 and 4, by improving community environmental awareness, and providing
sanitation, economic and social infrastructure to a low-income community. All project activities were
carried out and met output indicators. The lack of outcome indicators prevents evaluation of impact
although qualitative and anecdotal evidence shows that this component was largely successful.

The component design and approach proved to be appropriate. The approach empowered poor
communities to improve their own living conditions in the absence of government services. During the first
suspension, the wisdom of this approach became apparent: although the project was suspended due to
nonpayment of the government's counterpart contribution, this component remained active because the local
residents had mobilized their portion of the counterpart funds. Community participation in the project
began during project preparation and continued throughout implementation. Improvement in neighborhood
environmental conditions was slow due to the time needed to raise awareness within the community and
change patterns of behavior. The project introduced a more effective and sustainable approach to providing
basic services through community participation in low-income communities, such as maintenance and
management of public latrines in the neighborhood of Bè. Discussions with community groups identified
priority micro-projects for improvement of low-income areas. These included improving local roads and
drainage networks, planting vegetation in public places, rehabilitating markets, providing support for the
creation of jobs in such enterprises as collection of household waste, market gardening and recycling.

Specific activities financed by the project include: (a) Community environmental management training,
implemented by CARE Togo, in which 30 local trainers (instead of 10 originally planned) were recruited
on a voluntary work basis and trained to raise environmental management awareness in the community and
assist local committees in identifying micro-projects; (b) Improvement of sanitary conditions in the Bè
area, which comprised preparation of a master plan to provide the area with public latrines, construction of
4 new latrines were built and rehabilitation of nine, and concessioning latrine management to associations
and private contractors; (c) Neighborhood improvement and rehabilitation: upgrading of five public
squares and construction of a small community center in one of them; (d) Actions to improve the
framework of economic activities: Two markets were built, at Amoutivé, including latrines and
improvement of the immediate surroundings, and at Bè, including drainage. Vendors organized into market
management committees to ensure transparent allocation of renovated stalls and to organize maintenance;
(e) School improvement: Classrooms were rehabilitated and a canteen and latrines built at the Bè-Gare
public primary school; (f) Support for the organization of community activities: Support was extended to
the ADIA-Reveil Association to clean gutters; and (g) Construction of the Bè community center (CCB):
The center was built, equipped and provided with an access road. The center includes a library, clinic,
classrooms and catering facilities and sponsors vocational and literacy training, HIV/AIDS awareness,
youth programs and community/family festivals. It is professionally managed and has become an
important community asset.

This component worked well, and although it did encounter some difficulties, most were resolved during the
project. For example, there was some difficulty retaining voluntary environmental trainers in an
environment where employment is at a premium. Records are kept on usage and maintenance of public
latrines, however the effect on the environment has not been measured. There have been some problems
with management of the latrines necessitating a change of contractors. As noted earlier, the macrophytic
latrines have not worked and contribute to ambient air pollution in the neighborhood. Ultimately
successful, the rehabilitation of the two markets had very different experiences: Amoutivé market has
worked well, however Bè market has been plagued with problems: the vendors were slow to organize;
market renovation, carried out in part by AGETUR under the project, and in part by EPAM under
government funding, was uncoordinated and slow; project suspension halted work on the market, leaving


                                                      - 10 -

many vendors in the street although they had paid their contribution towards a renovated stalls. The
Amoutivé vendor association advised that of Bè, and most of the problems have been resolved through this
exchange of knowledge and experience.

Component 4. Urban Institution Building (US$2.2 million). This component contributed directly to
long-term project objectives 1 and 3, through studies to prepare needed policy, legislation and
organizational changes to improve municipal management and through development and establishment of
tools to improve performance on local resource mobilization. All activities were carried out, a few with
considerable delay.

The component design focused on putting in place the fundamentals to effect immediate improvements in
city management and on which to build the decentralization policy that the government had already
prepared. This gradual approach was appropriate and attainable. Although decentralization has not yet
started, effective tools are in place to support it. Project design also protected the project against charges
of corruption. Transparent procurement and local resource mobilization procedures improved public
confidence in the outcome of these activities. In addition, the lack of direct involvement by the city of
Lomé, although detrimental to real reform, provided protection to the project when, two years before
project closing, Lomé's mayor and chief financial officer, along with the director of EPAM were arrested
on charges of corruption. It should be emphasized that the charges have not been proven, and project funds
or activities were not involved in any way.


Evaluation of this component suffers particularly from the lack of any outcome indicators and baseline
data. The project would have benefited from identification and regular monitoring of revenue improvement
indicators, particularly as this relates to one of the objectives. Supervision missions noted the improvement
in local resource mobilization only on an ad hoc basis.

Results from component activities are as follows:

(a) Coordination of urban development activities: Legislative texts were prepared: a draft law on the
special status of the city of Lomé was elaborated, a decentralization law was promulgated and a collection
of texts on territorial administration and a directory of elected officials were compiled. None of these have
been enacted however and many are now dated. In particular, elected officials have been replaced by
centrally appointed délégations spéciales in the absence of municipal elections. This latter has caused
other donors to suspend their activities in support of decentralization

(b) Definition of the role of the State, the deconcentrated services, the private sector and the municipal
authorities: Socioeconomic and sectoral studies and surveys were carried out by local consultants with
support from international experts. These studies led to a summary report which was validated and
disseminated in regional and national seminars. A sectoral policy document was drawn up and adopted by
the Government. The responsibilities of the Urban Management Coordination Committee (CCGU) and of
the Coordination Committee's Technical Secretariat (STCC) (UDP management structures) were extended
to the entire national territory. In addition, a Technical Services Directorate and a Construction
Management Unit were established within the Lomé municipal government and manned with staff trained
in urban service management planning. Many municipal services were contracted out to private or
semi-public agencies, such as AGETUR for project works procurement, Togo-Electricité for supply and
maintenance of public lighting, and small private firms and NGOs for household waste collection.




                                                       - 11 -

(c) Municipal management capacity building: The project achieved the following: (a) adoption by Lomé
city government of an organizational chart, based on a service audit, which involved partial reorganization
of municipal services, including the establishment of an Administrative and Financial Directorate and the
creation of a coordination and monitoring unit (CCS); (b) development of a municipal management guide;
and (c) municipal and deconcentrated staff trained in finance and administrative practices.

(d) Improvement of local finances: The city's accounts with the Public Treasury were settled and a
petition to write off the city's debt was submitted to the Minister of Finance, however this has still not been
resolved. An accounting and financial audit was conducted for the period 1991-1996. Sound budget
management processes were established: a budget and accounting procedures manual, a public procurement
manual and the institution of a municipal tax. The project did not, however, look at the quality of public
expenditures or set targets for reduction of administrative costs and programming of recurrent
expenditures.

Tax reform led to the institution of the income tax (taxe professionnelle unique, TPU) and a residence tax
(taxe de résidence, TR). The project financed street addressing to support an accurate cadastre (land
registry). The project also supported activities to enhance collection, such as training for tax collectors,
simplification of tax payment and awareness-building campaigns. Receipts from these two taxes have
improved municipal resources but, given the socioeconomic situation of the country, fall short of the level
expected. More support should have been given to this activity and it should have been linked to overall
municipal budget management.

(e) Implementing agencies: The project provided experience and training to AGETUR and STCC, which
significantly strengthened their capacities. AGETUR showed marked improvement in contracting time and
payment of contractors, except during periods of suspension. STCC transformed into a private urban
consulting agency CITAFRIC which provides services to cities in the subregion. However, both of these
agencies were weakened by the IDA suspension and cessation of other donor activities linked either to
arrears or to the political situation.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
In the SAR, the economic rate of return (ERR) was calculated on the basis of three factors: reduction
vehicle operating costs under normal traffic conditions, traffic diversions and the advantages expected from
the project during the rainy season. The estimated rates for the five selected highways varied from 53.6
percent to 129.4 percent, i.e., an average of 74.4 percent.

The ERR was not recalculated at the project end. Due to the suspension, the Borrower was not able to a
post-project appraisal that would have included a recalculation of the ERR. In addition, as actual
investment costs were equal or lower than the SAR estimates and traffic estimates are in line with SAR
estimates, it is likely that the appraisal ERR has materialized.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return are not applicable to this type of project, in which activities are chosen mainly for
their social benefit and not profitability.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substantial institutional development took place during the project in spite of the negative economic and
financial environment.

AGETUR, as a newly created agency, had considerable difficulties at the beginning and lacked both



                                                      - 12 -

capacity and experience. However, over, the course of the project, AGETUR developed and proved its
ability to launch tenders and award and manage contracts within reasonable deadlines and in conformity
with the procedures of the various donors. Four project officers gained considerable experience in this
area. As regards STCC, its transformation to a private urban planning consulting bureau, CITAFRIC,
makes it an autonomous national agency for project management and for support to local authorities within
Togo and throughout the subregion. The impact on Lomé city government was smaller, as implementation
of the recommended measures was slower and lacked full commitment. However, significant progress was
made as a result of the institution of an Administrative and Financial Directorate and a Technical Services
Directorate with trained staff and adequate procedural manuals.

SMEs and local consulting firms also underwent substantial improvement in their capacity to respond to
bids and carry out works/studies. As noted, the project designed lots specifically not to overwhelm the
capacity of local enterprises. However, at the beginning of the project, it became apparent that most local
enterprises lacked the most basic knowledge to respond to bids; many simply submitted a low offer only to
find that they were incapable of carrying out the contract at that price. Work quality also needed
improvement. During the project, however, AGETUR provided training and the enterprises gained
experience. At the end of the project, most were able to provide realistic bids and carry out the works in an
appropriate manner.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Implementing agencies were hampered by the late payment of counterpart funds and the suspensions that
resulted from accumulation of Government arrears. The highly controversial presidential elections in 1998
and legislative elections in 1999 extended the suspension of financial aid from the principal donors to Togo,
which exacerbated the difficulties faced by the implementing agencies. An unprecedented energy crisis in
1998, which led to the depletion of stocks of materials such as cement and steel reinforcement bars, slowed
down the participation and response of SMEs in the construction sector.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The political, social and economic crisis that wracked in Togo from 1990 to the end of the project created a
very unstable macroeconomic and political environment throughout the period. Although this could be
viewed as being outside of the direct control of Government, it was also undoubtedly the consequence of
Government policies. Major donors, such as the European Union, suspended their assistance to Togo due
to lack of democratic governance; this suspension was maintained following the contested presidential and
legislative elections. Lack of Government commitment to decentralization led other donors, such as the
French Development Agency, to suspend their assistance: in 2000, the Government replaced elected local
governments,whose terms had long since expired, with central appointees (délégations spéciales) who were
to govern the cities until new local elections could be scheduled - an indefinite period. The World Bank and
the African Development Bank suspended assistance due to accumulation of arrears.

Due to the deteriorating economic situation, the government had difficulty making adequate counterpart
contributions during project implementation, however it must be noted that they made every effort to keep
up these payments. There were three country suspensions due to Togo's accumulation of arrears which
halted disbursement on the project. At the closing date of December 31, 2002, Togo was still under
suspension and it was not possible to extend the project. However, despite the three country suspensions,
95% of the IDA credit was disbursed at project closing.




                                                     - 13 -

The delay in provision of counterpart funds, along with other donor suspensions, caused tremendous
difficulties for the selected construction firms and general weakening of the private construction firms.
The implementing agencies, once very strong, have been weakened by the long suspension and lack of other
donor programs. In particular, the Government was (and still is) reluctant to delegate contract management
to AGETUR, due to a belief that such services are the proper responsibility of the Government. At the
beginning of the project, Government intervention in AGETUR, noted in Aide-Mémoires, added to the
"teething pains" of the new agency.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
As noted above, the Government interfered with the management of AGETUR and replaced two general
managers in rapid succession. Early problems related to lack of transparency in procurement and a general
lack of capacity to perform procurement efficiently, manage contracts and operate in as a private sector
entity. In these early years, the Bank provided much direct support and technical assistance to AGETUR to
ensure its functioning and survival. With the appointment of the third and final general manager,
procurement improved and implementation picked up pace.

Community and municipal management activities started very slowly. As for the former, certain women's
groups were skeptical about expected results and slow in providing their counterpart funds. As regards
municipal management, the city of Lomé had not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of the project
and there was reluctance concerning the implementation of the proposed reforms. Subsequently,
implementation continued to be very slow. Problems were also encountered by AGETUR in the execution
of works and the manufacture of interlocking paving blocks by SMEs as a result of the insufficient
experience of the latter and of the engineering offices supervising them, especially at the beginning of the
construction work. Subsequently, the beneficial effects of the training that they received were lost during
the successive periods of disbursement suspension.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost estimate was US$29.0 million, of which US$26.2 million was IDA's contribution,
US$2.4 million was the Government's contribution and US$377,000 the Beneficiaries'. US$24.2 million
had been disbursed by the end of the project, amounting to about 95.2 percent of the total IDA credit.
Disbursements were slightly higher than forecast for components 1 ("Transport and Traffic Improvement")
and 3 "Support to Community Participation"); distinctly larger for component 2 ("Improvement of
Environmental and Sanitary Conditions"); and lower than forecast for component 4 ("Urban Institution
Building"). (see Annex 2 for details). Despite extended country suspensions, the project used
approximately 95% of the IDA credit, including additional works financed from savings

In comparison with the initial breakdown of funds by category, reallocation resulted in increases in
categories 1, 3 and 4 and in reduction in categories 2 and 5. The canceled funding amounted to US$1.2
million.

In the SAR, the Government's contribution was estimated at US$2.4 million. In fact it amounted to
US$1.2 million, including 10 million CFAF (approximately US$15,000) paid by the Lome Municipal
Authorities. Counterpart funds yet to be paid by the Government amount to CFAF 204,532,765
(US$334,117). The Beneficiaries' contribution was estimated in the SAR as US$377,000 part of which
was an estimation of in-kind participation. This amount was paid in full. In fact, it is noteworthy that
during the first suspension, due to non-payment of the Government counterpart contribution, the
community microprojects continued since the community had mobilized its contribution. Unfortunately,
under subsequent suspensions, caused by Togo's accumulation of arrears, community projects were halted
as well, despite the fact that the beneficiaries had already contributed their part.



                                                      - 14 -

Numerous activities ready to launch had to wait as a result of the disbursement suspension and could not be
completed, since the suspension was still in force at the project closing date. These were additional
activities, over and above those forecast in the project.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, sustainability of the project is "unlikely". While certain results may indeed by sustainable, Togo's
political and economic situation limits the resources and commitment needed to safeguard project gains.

Sustainability is highly likely for facilities whose management was turned over to private associations or
contractors (Bè Community Center, latrines) or autonomous public institutions (Amoutivé and Bè markets)
and neighborhood associations (household waste collection). These activities are largely a function of the
local community's commitment to maintaining these facilities. Given their involvement at every step of
project preparation and implementation, there is considerable beneficiary "ownership" of these facilities. A
key component of the project's sustainability will be the further development of community-based
organizations.

The sustainability of facilities that rely on local governments for operation and maintenance is less certain.
Many facilities constructed or improved under the project (in particular roads, erosion control works and
planted trees) were turned over to the city of Lomé, which is responsible for maintenance but is short of
human and financial resources.

The institutional component's sustainability is to be questioned. The two implementing agencies, AGETUR
and STCC, acquired during the project a capability that could be enhanced under other projects which may
be envisaged in the near future. However, at the present, AGETUR may close down due to lack of Bank,
other donor or government construction projects. STCC/CITAFRIC may be able to continue with the
support from the French Cooperation, but this is uncertain. Sustaining the improvements in municipal
management is also questionable due to Central Government interference.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Under the current suspension, no transition arrangements have been scheduled so far, and no follow-on
IDA projects are envisaged at this time. However, should Togo revert to more normal conditions (payment
of arrears, steps towards democratization and decentralization), resumption of donor activities should
provide a framework to build on what was achieved under the project. Cooperation with the French
Development Agency (AFD) or the European Union may resume soon, given recent Government
indications of support to democratization and decentralizaton.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Performance in identification, preparation and appraisal was satisfactory. The project was identified in
1987, but it was not until 1990 that the Government requested the help of the Bank. The initial feasibility
study for the Project was carried out in 1990/1991 and the appraisal was completed in March 1992.
However, due to the political crisis, the project was put on hold until the post-appraisal mission was
conducted in November 1993. In preparing this project, the Bank adopted a participatory approach as it
tried to build a consensus and involve many segments of the society. There was ample and continued
participation not only from the executing agencies, but also from the civil society represented by various



                                                      - 15 -

categories of stakeholders (discussions with community groups helped identify micro-projects for
improvement of priority areas). Intensive interaction and good dialogue with Bank preparation missions
facilitated this process. However, the Bank did not adequately engage the City of Lomé during project
preparation to ensure its acceptance of and adherence to project reforms. In addition, the Bank did not
adequately prepare monitoring and evaluation of outcomes. This was not the practice at the time, but
nevertheless weakened subsequent supervision.

As evaluated earlier, project design and implementation arrangements were appropriate for the country
context and riskiness. The project attempted to mitigate this risk by involving the private and community
sectors and in its selection of implementing agencies: AGETUR, a private enterprise, and STCC, an agency
well integrated into the national government but empowered to act independently.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision was satisfactory. There was continuity in the team as the turnover rate was low during project
implementation (two task managers and ample overlap between them). There were eleven supervision
missions from March 1995 to November 1999 and two supervision missions between November 1999 and
November 2002. This was due to the fact that little progress was being made during the suspensions. There
was a proper skills mix during supervision and follow up was done regularly even when the country was
under disbursement suspension. The country office followed the project on a daily basis and played a key
role in the supervision. Both Washington office and country office teams coordinated with other donors in
the sector to ensure consistency in approach. The team showed flexibility in addressing issues relating to a
changing environment. Of particular note, supervision missions early in project implementation provided
active support to overcome issues of implementing agency management (changes and lack of capacity in
AGETUR) and helped ease counterpart contribution constraints by developing an installment payment
schedule.

Supervision was only hampered by lack of adequate monitoring indicators. Project preparation predated the
use of the logical framework, which would have defined clear outcome indicators. Although most ongoing
projects were retrofitted with outcome indicators in 1998, following the advent of the logical framework,
the Lomé Urban Development Project had already disbursed more than 75% of credit funds, putting it over
the implementation threshhold requiring such retrofitting. At the time, it was determined that the project
implementation was already too advanced to benefit from revised indicators.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance during the project was satisfactory. The Bank provided consistent
supervision in spite of a deteriorating economic situation, and was regarded as a partner.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in preparation was satisfactory. All project components were thoroughly
evaluated and defined in a participatory manner with beneficiaries.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Ministry of Equipment and Mines remained committed to the project and provided critical support,
particularly in assuring counterpart financing. However, the Government's fiscal situation, which led to
three suspensions, was ultimately a serious detriment to the project. The Government also did not follow
through on reforms supported by the project to enhance local government capacity and responsibility. The
City of Lomé, similarly, was slow to adopt recommended reforms. Government interference with AGETUR
hampered the early development of the agency. Government performance in implementation is rated



                                                    - 16 -

marginally unsatisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance is assessed as satisfactory.

The two agencies involved in project implementation (STCC and AGETUR) improved their institutional
and technical capacity during the project and acquired tangible managerial capability. Accounts were
audited regularly and reports submitted to the Bank within the required deadlines. Only one technical audit
of the works was conducted. A second audit, requested by AGETUR, could not be carried out owing to the
disbursement suspension.

At the beginning of the project, implementing agency performance was unsatisfactory: project activities
were slow to launch and quality was low. Problems with AGETUR have been noted earlier. However, with
experience and training, the performance of the implementing agencies improved considerably. It should be
noted that the implementing agencies worked under difficult conditions and were considerably affected by
late counterpart contributions and project suspensions. AGETUR in particular had to take emergency
measures just to survive during the project implementation period, and is now threatened with bankruptcy.
STCC similarly had to resort to belt-tightening measures. Both agencies lost valued staff due to the
financial situation. However, they remained committed to correct project implementation, despite the
difficulties, and faced challenges with flexibility and ingenuity.

Although not an implementing agency, community performance would be rated highly satisfactory. The
community groups organized themselves effectively and took an active interest in projects to improve their
quality of life. Although among the lowest-income groups in Lomé, the communities mobilized their
counterpart funds and provided needed in-kind participation. In particular, the vendors in the Amoutivé
and Bè markets, many of whom earn less than a dollar a day, managed to save enough to pay their
contributions towards improved market stalls. The CCB has mobilized the community to keep the
neighborhood clean, and regularly organizes neighborhood beautification campaigns.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is marginally unsatisfactory. Although its performance during preparation,
and that of the implementing agencies during implementation is satisfactory, this is outweighed by the
problems caused by the overall fiscal situation, delay in providing counterpart funds, and lack of support
for decentralization, all of which caused considerable difficulties to the project. Although ultimately the
project achieved its objectives, the sustainability is questionable. It is likely that in the absence of these
difficulties, the project might have exceeded its objectives.

8. Lessons Learned

Project experience provides several lessons. Among the most important:

   l Project preparation should ensure buy-in by all stakeholders and provide appropriate incentives for
         behavior change in project implementation. The city of Lomé was reluctant to adopt the proposed
         reform measures because it was not adequately involved in the dialogue on project objectives and
         the means to attain them. Consequently, much effort was expended during implementation to
         explain project reforms to the municipal authorities and get their acceptance. Additionally, the
         Government was, and largely remains, reluctant to accept delegated contract management, despite
         proof of its effectiveness during the project.




                                                       - 17 -

    l Institutional strengthening measures should be tied to a specific investment activity to enhance
         learning by doing and prove the applicability of the tool or skill being transferred. The resource
         mobilization component of the project and training, for example, were not directly linked to
         improved investment and/or maintenance. Such a linkage would have provided incentives and
         provided a practical opportunity to utilize newly acquired skills.

    l When promoting SME development, it is necessary to provide for practical and theoretical training
         for the enterprises and engineering offices from the very outset and to continue to offer more
         advanced training throughout the project. SMEs involved in the project encountered difficulties in
         drawing up their bids (cost estimates and work schedules) and in carrying out the work.

    l Community development activities must be accompanied by timely support. Credibility, and the
         resultant behavioral change, suffers if a community makes a commitment or mobilizes funds and
         the partner, be it the Government or the donor, does not provide its support quickly. Moreover,
         individuals and associations cannot be asked for voluntary contributions on an ongoing basis,
         especially in view of the country's long-standing sociopolitical crisis and very high unemployment.
         Provisions should therefore be made for regular awareness-raising actions and a financial
         motivation, however small, in this area.

    l Counterpart funding capacity must be adequately assessed and planned for, particularly in lending
         that affects sub-national governments and communities. Late payment of counterpart funds
         undermined many of the project pillars, particularly community participation and promotion of
         SMEs, both of which demand immediate accompaniment from partners.

    l Decentralization can be supported, even in a centralized governance structure, by involving local
         governments in project design and implementation and creating a link between local communities
         and local government. The project, by treating the city of Lomé as a recipient of assistance rather
         than an active participant, missed the opportunity to create such a linkage. This might have
         strengthened the capacity and responsiveness of municipal authorities, while providing local
         communities with a direct interlocutor on urban services.

    l Use of outside implementing agencies, such as AGETIPEs, while useful over the short and medium
         terms to ensure project implementation in the absence of government capacity, should not
         substitute for nor detract from the necessary and concomitant strengthening of government
         institutions.

    l Project indicators should be developed before project effectiveness, and adapted as necessary
         during project implementation.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower concurred with the overall ICR ratings, but expressed concern over the weighting given to
the problem of counterpart funds in the assessment of Borrower implementation performance which
resulted in a "marginally" unsatisfactory overall Borrower performance rating. The implementing agencies
likewise concurred with most of the ratings. However, they rated the project's environmental impact and
contribution to institutional development as "substantial," rather than "modest," and project sustainability
as "likely." Their environmental impact rating is based on their observations of the improvements in
drainage and change in the community's environmental and sanitary practices. Their rating for institutional



                                                     - 18 -

development is based on their weighting of the importance of the institutional changes and capacity building
introduced by the project: although these are not fully applied, the implementing agencies consider them a
solid base and a fundamental first step to improved urban management. Although the implementing
agencies acknowledge the challenge to project sustainability caused by lack of resources, they note that the
change in urban management practices, and the change in community mind-set are enough to ensure
sustainability. In addition, they point out that capacity, once built, is a resource that endures, even if it lies
dormant.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NGOs and community actors concur with the Borrower comments. During implementation, community
groups, particularly the market associations, expressed frustration with project suspensions, which broke
the momentum of community participation. In the ICR Mission, communities expressed their appreciation
for community and urban infrastructure put in place by the project and the high level of consultation and
participation with which the project was prepared and implemented.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 19 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:

                 Indicators                    1996     1997     1998    1999     2000 2001
Percentage of contracts completed on time         90       94      98      100      95 100
Percentage of contracts completed within         100      100      100     100      98 100
budget
Percentage of payments to contractors within     100      100      100       90     95 100
30 days of invoice (per year) made from the
Special Account
Average time for processing contracts             48       40      38        35   469* 165*
between bid opening and contract award (in
working days)
Percentage salaries/total costs                   18       16      19        18     18  22


Output Indicators:

                 Indicators                    1996     1997     1998    1999     2000 2001
Number of contracts with beneficiaries             3       11
and cumulated amounts (US$ million) (both      14.38     6.21
per year)
Number of contracts signed per year               30       68      85        85     40   4
(design/supervision and works/services)
Percentage unskilled workers salaries/total       56       31      51        50     47  45
salaries
Number of man-months of employment             5,143 13,511 20,173 12,754 6,467         83
created per year

*   Delays due to suspension of disbursements in April 1999 and from 2000 to 2001.




                                               - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                 Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                                  Estimate      Estimate       Appraisal
                        Component                               US$ million    US$ million
1. Transport and Traffic                                             9.33          11.38             122
2. Environment and Sanitation                                        5.20            7.99            154
3. Bè Community Participation                                        2.81            3.19            113
4. Urban Institution Building                                        3.74            2.20             59
5. Project Preparation Facility                                      0.75            0.72             96

Total Baseline Cost                                                 21.83          25.48
                           Total Project Costs                      21.83          25.48
                    Total Financing Required                        21.83          25.48



Procurement Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ equivalent)


        Expenditure Category                           Procurement Method
                                     ICB            NCB      Others2    NBF3    Total Cost
                                         4.03         14.35      0.00      0.00      18.39
1a. Civil works
                                        (3.50)       (12.51)     0.00      0.00     (16.02)

                                         0.00         3.47       0.00      0.00       3.47
1.b Community works*
                                         0.00         (3.02)     0.00      0.00       (3.02)

                                         0.44         0.35       0.25      0.00       1.05
  2. Equipment
                                        (0.44)        (0.35)     (0.25)    0.00       (1.05)

                                         0.00         0.00       0.73      0.00       0.73
  3. AGETURservice contract
                                         0.00         0.00       (0.73)    0.00       (0.73)

                                         0.00         0.00       4.18      0.00       4.18
  4. Consultancies and training
                                         0.00         0.00       (4.18)    0.00       (4.18)

                                         0.00         0.00       0.45      0.00       0.45
  5. STCC operating costs
                                         0.00         0.00       (0.45)    0.00       (0.45)

                                                                                      0.75
     Refunding PPF
  6.                                                                                  (0.75)

     TOTAL COST                          4.48         18.18      5.60      0.00      29.00
                                        (3.96)       (15.89)     (5.60)    0.00     (26.18)

   * Includes contributions of Governments, City of Lomé and CBD.




                                                     - 21 -

   Procurement Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ equivalent)


             Expenditure Category                             Procurement Method
                                            ICB          NCB         Others2        NBF3       Total Cost
                                                3.56        10.09         0.00          0.00        13.65
    1a. Civil works
                                               (3.46)       (8.98)        0.00          0.00        (12.44)

                                                0.38         2.13         0.64          0.00          3.15
    1.b Community works
                                               (0.36)       (1.92)       (0.59)         0.00         (2.87)

                                                0.00         0.00         0.63          0.00          0.63
      2. Equipment
                                                0.00         0.00        (0.63)         0.00         (0.63)

                                                0.00         0.00         1.08          0.00          1.08
      3. AGETURservice contract
                                                0.00         0.00        (1.08)         0.00         (1.08)

                                                0.14         0.00         5.79          0.00          5.93
      4. Consultancies and training
                                               (0.14)        0.00        (5.79)         0.00         (5.93)

                                                0.00         0.00         0.34          0.00          0.34
      5. STCC operating costs
                                                0.00         0.00        (0.34)         0.00         (0.34)

                                                                          0.72                        0.72
         Refunding PPF
      6.                                        0.00         0.00        (0.72)         0.00         (0.72)

         TOTAL COST                             4.08        12.22         9.20          0.00        25.51
                                               (3.96)      (10.90)       (9.15)         0.00        (24.01)


   1/ - Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit.
   All costs include contingencies.
   2/ - Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services,
   services of contracted staff of the project management, office, training, technical assistance services, and
   incremental operating costs related to (I) managing the project; and (ii) re-lending project funds to local
   government units.
   3/- Projects not financed by the Bank.

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                           Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                    Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank         Govt.        CoF.        Bank          Govt.        CoF.       Bank   Govt.   CoF.
1. Transport and Traffic        11.15        1.52         0.00        10.36          1.02         0.00       92.9   67.1    0.0
2. Environment and               6.34        0.71         0.00         7.65          0.34         0.00      120.7   47.9    0.0
Sanitation
3. Bè Community                  3.20        0.20         0.38         3.03          0.12         0.03       94.7   60.0    7.9
Participation
4. Urban Institution             4.76        0.00         0.00         2.20          0.00         0.00       46.2   0.0     0.0
Building
5. Project Preparation           0.72        0.00         0.00         0.72          0.00         0.00      100.0   0.0     0.0
Facility
TOTAL                           26.17        2.43         0.38        23.96          1.48         0.03       91.6   60.9    7.9



                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

An economic analysis was done at the time of appraisal, but no ex-post evaluation was carried out at the
time of ICR. However, as actual investment costs were equal or lower than SAR estimates and traffic
estimates are in line with SAR estimates, it is likely that the appraisal ERR has materialized.




                                                     - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                  Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              Appraisal                 9    Urban Planner (1);
              mission - March                WID Specialist (2);
              1992                           Procurement Specialist (1);
                                             Community Development
                                             Specialist (1); Urban Finance
                                             Specialist (1); Transport
                                             Economist (1); Environment
                                             Consultant(1); Sanitation
                                             Consultant (1).
              Post-appraisal            3    Task Manager - Urban Finance
              mission -                      Specialist (1); Transport
              November 1993                  Economist (1); Community
                                             Participation Specialist (1).

 Supervision

              11/22/1994                1    Transport Planner (1)                 S               S
              03/24/1995                1    Transport Planner (1)                 S               S
              07/14/1995                2    Highway Engineer (1); Urban           S               S
                                             and Transport Planner (1)
              11/22/1995                2    Urban Specialist (1);                 S               S
                                             Urban and Tranport Planner (1)
              03/31/1996                1    Urban and Transport Planner (1)       S               U
              07/25/1996                2    Urban Planner (Consultant) (1);       S               S
                                             Urban and Transport Planner (1)
              03/24/1997                1    Urban and Transport Planner (1)       S               S
              07/10/1997                2    Urban and Transport Planner (1)       S               S
              11/30/1997                3    Urban and Transport Planner           S               S
                                             (1);
                                             Municipal Finance Specialist (1);
                                             Urban Management Specialist
                                             (1)
              03/21/1998                1    Urban Tranport Planner (1)            S               S
              10/03/1998                1    Sr. Transport Planner (1)             S               S
              02/25/1999                3    Sr. Transport Planner (1);            S               S
                                             Municipal Finance Specialist (1);
                                             Projects Officer (1)
              11/24/1999                4    Urban Planner/Team Leader (1);        S               S
                                             Urban Management Specialist
                                             (1); Procurement Specialist (1);
                                              Project Assistant (1)
              07/15/2000                2    Urban Planner/Team Leader (1)         U               S
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)
              11/02/2002                2    Urban Planner/Team Leader (1)         U               S




                                              - 24 -

                                            Procurement Specialist

 ICR
               02/21/2003             2     Urban Planner/Team Leader
                                            (1);
                                            Consultant (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 73.0                          157.2
  Supervision                          183.6                          379.5
  ICR                                     6.0                           19.9
  Total                                368.0                          753.6




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU
Government implementation performance was by far the greatest cause of implementation difficulties, and
jeopardized implementation progress, achievement of development objectives and ultimate project
sustainability.




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

World Bank Aide-memoires and PSRs
World Bank ICR Mission Aide-memoire - February 2003
Final Completion Report - Prepared by the Government in April 2003
Quarterly activity reports
Audit reports




                                                - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. English Translation of the Borrower's Completion Report

                             LOME URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT

                                         COMPLETION REPORT


A.       Introduction

1.       Lomé's Urban Context : Under demographic pressure from a rapid, 5% annual urban growth
rate, Lomé's surface area expanded from 1,900 hectares in 9,000 hectares in 20 years. This rapid growth
was not accompanied by an infrastructure policy nor provision of viable urban services. Thus, Lomé's
1,394 kilometers of urban roads, 78% of which lacked drainage and maintenance, were impassable and
prone to flooding, isolating many neighborhoods and making already difficult traffic conditions even more
arduous during the rainy season.,

A liberal land policy, while promoting access to land for all, hampered planning and control of urban
growth as well as a real policy of urban management. Deplorable environmental and sanitary conditions,
which affected the entire city, were exacerbate in the cities older areas, where deep wells, used as the
primary water source, became virtual sewers during the rainy season, collecting effluent from open-air
latrines on spontaneous dump sites. Solid waste collection, contracted to SOTOEMA and largely
subsidized by the State, only covered the old city and the government area.

Despite Lomé's autonomous status, granted in Law 81.1 of June 23, 1981, the city was not able to respond
to the heavy demand for urban services due to its lack of human and financial resources and effective
management tools and structures.

2.       The Project

2.1.     Project Objectives : The immediate objective of Lomé UDP, initiated by the Government of
Togo, with financial assistance from the World Bank, was to assist the Government to apply its urban
development policy through : (a) implementation of priority urban works having an optimum impact on
employment and revenue; (b) promotion of SMEs in the construction sector; and (c) participation of
residents, community groups and NGOs in local environmental improvement activities

The long-term objectives are : (a) strengthening local urban management capacity ; (b) managing water and
solid waste systems; (c) preparing the reforms necessary to improve local resource mobilization and to
strengthen the cities' role in national development; and (d) making a significant contribution to poverty
reduction in urban areas.

The project was a first step designed to test approaches in responding to the urban sector strategy. It is to
be followed by other projects as soon as the implementing capacities of urban actors are sufficiently
developed.

2.2.     Project description : Lomé UDP comprises 4 components :

2.2.1. `'Traffic and transportation improvement": Construction and rehabilitation of 5 main arteries in
Lomé and implementation of measures to improve traffic and road security.



                                                    - 29 -

2.2.2. `'Improvement of environmental and sanitary conditions'' : This component includes
implementation of works to control erosion, urban beautification, dredging Bè Lagoon and drainage of 2
pilot zones in Bè neighborhood.

2.2.3. `'Support to community development and projects'': This component comprises (a) support to
community participation in design, implementation and management of activities to improve the sanitary,
social and economic environment; (b) support to community micro projects, construction of a community
center and public latrines; and (c) training in community environmental management.

2.2.4. `'Strengthening of urban institutions'' : This component aims at preparing an action plan to
improve and rationalize urban management, improve resource mobilization and local finance and
strengthen the management capacity of the City of Lomé.

2.3.    Institutional Framework

Lomé PDU had the following institutional framework : (a) an interministerial oversight committee, the
Urban Management Coordination Committee (Comité de Coordination pour la Gestion Urbaine -
CCGU), comprising representatives of seven ministries, the mayor of Lomé and the president of the Bè
Development Committee (Comité de développement de Bè - CDB) ; (b) a technical secretariat to the
CCGU (Secrétariat Technique du Comité de Coordination - STCC), responsible for following up
implementation of project activities ; (c) an Urban Reform and Study Committee (Comité d'Etudes et de
Réformes Urbaines - CERU) ; and (d) AGETUR, a private autonomous enterprise, responsible for
implementation of physical works programmed under the project.

B.     STATUS OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION

Key project implementation dates:
        o       April 1994, establishment of CCGU and AGETUR-Togo ;
        o       December 1994, establishment of STCC and CERU ;
        o       January 1995, signature of Development Credit Agreement 2620-TO ;
        o       May 1995, first project disbursement (248,175.000 CFA Francs) ;
        o       January 1st to April 14 1999, first suspension of disbursements ;
        o       November 14 2000 to August 15 2001, second suspension of disbursements ;
        o       January 1st to December 2002, third suspension of disbursements ;
        o       December 31, 2002, project closing.

1.      PHYSICAL IMPLEMENTATION

1.1.    Component 1 `'Traffic and transport improvement'' : This component comprises 3
subcomponents :
         (a) Construction and rehabilitation of 9.9 kms of road : 12.11 km of road was drained and paved.
        The following roads were treated under the project:
        o       Boulevard de l'Oti : 2.27 km
        o       Boulevard de Malfakassa : 1.9 km
        o       Avenue de Gakli-Djidjolé/Pya : 2.39 km
        o       Avenue de Pya Prolongée : 2.05 km
        o       Avenue la Libération Prolongée :1.,1 km



                                                    - 30 -

        o        Rue Notre Dame des Apôtres : 2.40 km

        (b) `'Improvement in traffic and road safety'' accomplished :
        o        installation of traffic lights in 2 intersections (Gakli-Djidjolé-Pya/route Kpalimé and
        Boulevard du 13 janvier/Rue Notre Dame des                     Apôtres;
        o        upgrading of 4 traffic circles (2 along Gakli-Djidjolé/Pya an Pya Prolongée and 2 along
        Boulevard Oti / Malfakassa) ;
        o        production and performance of a play to inform and raise awareness of the population of
        the use of bicycle routes.

        (c) The Lomé traffic study, the third subcomponent,, was carried out under the Transport
        Rehabilitation Project. A team from the General Transport Department identified dangerous
        intersections and stretches of road, which became the basis of technical studies to reduce the risk of
        accidents and improve driver/pedestrian safety.

1.2     Component 2 `'Improvement of environment and sanitary conditions'': This component
comprised 5 subcomponents:

(a)     Anti-erosive measures on 40 hectares on the northern banks of Lake Bè, including the following
works:
        o        construction of two kinds of retention walls (one comprising a paved road, 0.85 meters
        wide, with drainage on either side, the other          consisting of a 3 meter-wide paved road flanked
        by low walls.
        o        Rehabilitation of the northern Lake Bè road (5 meters wide) in graveled laterite and
        construction of 2,346 ml of drainage ditches;
        o        Repavement in graveled laterite of 1,400 m² of Bè Hédjé Kpota Road and construction of
        1,500 ml of drainage ditches ;
        o        Planting of grass, trees and bushes.

(b)     Rehabilitation of the southern banks of Lake Bè : in addition to planned activities (tree planting on
the southern banks of Lake Bè and a part of East Lake, street lighting in front of the Bè Community
Center) the project also provided protection for the newly-created green spaces through construction of a
decorative fence.

(c)     Dredging Lake Bè resulted in hydraulic dredging of 200,813 m3 of sediment, of which 20,000 m3
was mud and 180,813 m3 was sand. These works increased Bè Lake from 31 hectares to + 0.50 m IGN or
+ 0,60 m IGN and to even out the discharge. Hydrological studies accompanying the dredging were not
only limited to technical aspects, but also measured water quality before and after dredging.

(d)     Drainage of two pilot zones in Bè neighborhood achieved the following planned works :
        o        Drainage, by planting 40 hectares of water-intensive trees and plants to lower the water
        table ;
        o        Drainage by (i) installation of 6,000 ml of 88 mm-wide subterranean drains, of 498 ml of
        100 mm-wide collection pipes, of 2,400 ml of 150 ml collection pipes, and 1,400 ml of 200
        mm-wide collection pipes ; (ii) construction of 67 monitoring points, (iii) construction of 260 ml of
        drainage ditches of the dimension 0.60 m by 0.80 to 1.0 m; (iv) construction of 11 observation
        wells; (v) rehabilitation of a two-lane roadway in graveled laterite dimensioned 1,712 m in length
        and 9 m in width.



                                                        - 31 -

(e)      Lomé solid waste audit : the study was completed and its recommendations implemented in a pilot
operation. The pilot operation included construction and equipment of two intermediary dump sites, an
awareness-building campaign to disseminate information on the new methods of solid waste management
coming out of the study, and the concession of solid waste collection to a private operator. The
recommendation of the evaluation of the pilot was to extend this new method of solid waste management to
the rest of the city, with a few adaptations. It is now up to the local government to improve and
institutionalize it.

1.3.     Support to Community Works and Development: This component comprises 4 activities:

(a)      Training in community environmental management, carried out by CARE-Togo, achieved
completion of a basic study on training needs for awareness-building activities, and the selection and
training of 30 neighborhood volunteers (instead of the 10 permanent volunteers initially planned under the
project) to educate and raise awareness of the population on environmental management. In addition
CARE- Togo provided institutional support to local structures operating in the neighborhood of Bè to
improve their staffing and management capacity as well as their effectiveness in identifying and managing
community projects.

(b)      Improvement of sanitary conditions in Bè supported a public latrine master plan and the following
works : (i) rehabilitation of 8 public toilets and (ii) construction of 4 latrines managed by local associations
under the umbrella of the LATRICOM, a federation of public latrine operators. In addition, under this
subcomponent associations and the neighborhood environmental training volunteers took responsibility for
tree planting along the southern and northern banks of Lake Bè. The following conclusions can be drawn
from the limited results of these activities : (i) environmental protection measures are maintained if
beneficiaries are effectively involved in their identification and if they deem them useful ; and (ii)
environmental awareness-building is only effective if is accompanied by incentives and penalties for
scoff-laws. Finally, this subcomponent facilitated the creation of solid waste collection brigades which
progressively eliminated spontaneous dump sites. Unfortunately, the city dump sites are still inadequate.

(c)      The start-up of the community micro projects subcomponent was relatively slow, as it first
required awareness-building among the populations and technical assistance for micro project
identification. At project closing, 50 micro projects were identified with the assistance of the local
volunteers and submitted for CCGU approval, 30 of which fulfilled selection criteria and 17 of which were
financed and implemented. The beneficiary counterpart contributions, which represented 10% of the total
project cost, was difficult to mobilize and impeded implementation. In addition, many revenue-generating
micro projects were not approved.

(d)      Construction of the Bè Community Center : The city concessioned management of the BCC to the
Bè Development Committee. A director was recruited, reporting to a Board of Directors. Manuals and
guidelines were developed and provided to the Center management, on management, promotion of center
activities and maintenance. Since opening, Community Center revenues have just covered expenses,
however maintenance guidelines have not been always been followed. The Board meets frequently.
Neighborhood associations use the Center heavily, and it hosts many cultural activities ­ even to late in the
night.

1.4 Urban institutional strengthening: Once it began, this component was reorganized into two
subcomponents and its objectives were phased to better respond to immediate sectoral needs.
         o        One subcomponent focused on strengthening the management capacity of the City of Lomé


                                                        - 32 -

        by providing the necessary tools to the City         to improve weak urban services ;
        o        The other subcomponent, Urban Sector Review, aimed at assisting the Government to
        define a sectoral development strategy.

1.4.1. Strengthening Lomé's urban management capacity: This subcomponent began with an analysis of
Lomé's urban management which revealed: (i) poor utilization of scarce available resources ; (ii) weak
human resources (particularly permanent professional staff) ; (iii) poor urban management capacity; (iv)
weak management of urban economic infrastructure; and (v) poor budget management. A management
improvement strategy for the City of Lomé was developed and adopted by the Ministries of Interior and
Finance and by Lomé's municipal council. The resultant action plan covered four themes:
        o        Administrative and financial management;
        o        Technical services management;
        o        Management of communal infrastructure (markets, parking garages, latrines) ;
        o        Local resource mobilization.

(a)     The administrative and financial management activities achieved the following : (i) a return to
budgetary rigor in preparation of the urban budget; (ii) establishment of budgetary categories and of an
accounting and budgetary procedures manual; (iii) development of professional staff for urban financial
management (international technical assistance for 2 years, recruitment of a Financial Affairs Director on
contract); (iv) creation of an urban revenue department; (v) reorganization of city departments and
establishment of an organization chart; and (vi) training.

(b)     Activities to strengthen technical services achieved: (i) creation of a technical services department
and a works management unit; (ii) strengthening of permanent professional staff; (iii) improvement in
technical services and provision of urban infrastructure and services by progressing contracting out
(maintenance of roads and public spaces, street sweeping, solid waste collection, clearance of drainage
ditches); (iv) improvement in solid waste collection with the establishment of a two-tiered system
(precollection of household waste by local associations, and neighborhood waste collection by private
operators.

(c)     With regard to management of communal infrastructure : (i) the creation of EPAM straightened
out the finances of the former urban market management department and improved service to vendors and
consumers; and (ii) latrine management concessioning improved the quality of service, even though there
are lingering problems in public hygiene (water system user charges are high, causing latrine managers to
conserve water to a degree that could endanger public health). Up until project closing, the leasing of
parking garages, instituted 3 year ago, is still not operational since drivers' unions, currently the de facto
managers, refuse to let the leasing companies take over.

(d)     Project activities to support local resource mobilization have achieved the following results :
        o        A street addressing unit was established and equipped and undertook the installation of
        house numbers, street signs and publication of an             updated map of Lomé.
        o        Concurrent with the street address activities, the land registry was updated.
        o        The tax department received support in establishing local taxes defined by the 1998
        Finance Law, although collection remains                      problematic. An evaluation of the tax
        reform will provide an understanding of the current situation.

1.4.2. Urban sector review : This subcomponent planned the studies on urban economy,
decentralization and community participation, urban poverty and housing. These studies were carried out



                                                      - 33 -

and approved by CERU, and at regional and national levels. The review facilitated development of local
expertise and participation by a large number of urban actors, and advanced sector policy and the
decentralization code adopted by the Government. The review resulted in a Declaration of National Urban
Sector Policy, approved by the Cabinet.

2.      FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT

In accordance with the DCA IDA 2620-TO, (i) procurement was performed according to the procedures of
the Bank ; (ii) management of AGETUR and STCC was regularly audited ; and (iii) expenditures were
grouped by project component and recorded systematically in conformance with accepted principles and
procedures of accounting.

STCC and AGETUR-Togo opened and maintained separate accounts for project implementation. The
project was managed according to (i) procedures, financial and accounting manuals et (ii) refinements made
to the accounting plan and procedures. All of the financial reports of the two agencies have been cleared by
the supervision missions and certified independent audit reports. Contracts negotiated and signed under the
project conformed to the World Bank's procurement procedures and the National Tender Board. (refer to
the annex for a list of contracts with reference to their acceptance by the Bank.).

Some weaknesses in financial management were noted: (a) neither agency established a system of analytic
management by component as they had chosen to program component activities annually., including the
relevant budget ; this system enabled programming in conjunction with supervision missions and
reallocation of credit funds by category, but not by component; (b) the project management manual did not
take into account fluctuations in the exchange rate so that project accounting did not reflect the real amount
of expenditures and disbursements, which were treated separately.

In consideration of the delay in project start-up and the three suspensions during project implementation,
the Bank accepted to extend the project closing date to December 31 2002 from the original closing date of
December 21, 1999. At project closing, total disbursements stood at 17, 708,769, 130 SDR, or 91% of
project funds. Disbursements, not including PPF repayment is as follows:




                                                      - 34 -

 COMPONENT                                INITIAL                 DISBURSED               DISBURSEMENT
                                          ALLOCATION              AMOUNT                  RATE
                                          (USD MILLION)           (USD MILLION)
                                          Amount                  %                       Amount/%
 Traffic and transport improvement        12,503.62               44 .26                  9,127.65
 Improvement in urban sanitary            6,962.09                24.65                   7,100.78
 conditions.
 Support to community participation       3,769.85                13.35                   2,672.46
 Urban institutional strengthening        5,012.17                17.74                    1,.868.00
 Implementing agency operations.          -                       -                       18,614,240.,33
                                                                                          31.,37
                                                                                          11.,80
                                                                                          8.,25
                                                                                          82,273.,00
                                                                                          101.,99
                                                                                          70.89
                                                                                          37.,26
                                                                                          00.,00

 TOTAL                                     28.,247.72             100.00                  22,.630.31
                                                                                          100.00
                                                                                          80.11



Analysis of the amounts effectively disbursed shows that the operation expenditures of the two agencies
represent less than 10% of total disbursements. With only 8.22% of disbursements going to operational
expenditures, it is evident that the project is well designed and its implementation efficient.

Counterpart contributions defined in the Development Credit Agreement were provided as follows:
        o         State provision to STCC of offices and utilities and secondment of 3 civil servants;
        o         State provision to enterprises of 694 million CFA francs, since 1998, when project
        financing was provided progressively in conformity             with the loan agreement;
        o         Contribution by the City of Lomé of 10 million CFA francs;
        o         Contribution by local beneficiaries of 19,658,093 CFA francs.

Payment of counterpart funds was strongly affected the financial difficulties confronting the State. At
project closing, the State owed the enterprises 204,532,765 CFA francs for work already completed under
the project. The irregular payment of the Government's counterpart hampered implementation of certain
physical works.

C.      PROJECT ASSESSMENT

1.      AT PREPARATION

Lomé UDP was the first urban project in Togo to address comprehensively the question of urban



                                                       - 35 -

development as opposed to «local » development. It was also the first urban project to include a
community participation dimension.

In general, project objectives were pertinent to the urban environment, to the social and economic contexts,
and to the institutional environment in Togo at the time of preparation. Project components are in
conformity with the defined project objectives. Unfortunately, at the time of project appraisal, logical
frameworks did not exist; this might have facilitated both the monitoring of objectives and performance
indicators and the evaluation of the risks of each component.

In component 1, specifically, the use of labor intensive construction methods slowed down works execution
and consequently compromised works quality due to the nature of the soil : south of the Lagoon, the sandy
soil facilitated manual excavation for sewers and for tree planting, whereas soil on the Tonkoin Plateau
was much more difficult to work by hand ­ in fact, many workers resigned faced with such difficult work.
In any case, the objective of 20% of total costs going to manual labor was met, even though certain works
were done by machine.

In component 3, it is regrettable that the NGO charged with training and support for local institutions in Bè
was effectively chosen by project appraisal, even before project implementation. Otherwise, an appropriate
NGO could have been chosen by competition and might have presented the project with more choice of
methods and qualifications. To this end, to mitigate the structural weaknesses of NGOs at the time of
project preparation, expressions of interest could have been encouraged from joint ventures between
international and local NGOs.

2.       ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

More works than anticipated were completed under components 1 and 2 of the project. Since Lomé, did
not have an adequate drainage network, it was necessary to add drainage works that were not originally
planned while the roads were being rehabilitated. In addition, the condition of transport networks (buses,
canals) between the two lakes that make up the Lagoon necessitated an emergency intervention to ease
transit between them.

With respect to physical works:
         o       The objectives of improving accessibility and transport conditions was achieved (paving
         and drainage of more than 12 km of roads) ;
         o       The objective of improving the urban environment was partially achieved (dredging of
         Lake Bè and the canals of the Lagoon, deep         drainage on the south bank of Lake Bè to lower
         the aquifer.)
         o       The objective of supporting SMEs and creating employment was met (312 contracts were
         signed with 89 SMEs ; 27 local consulting and      monitoring enterprises were awarded a total of
         71 contracts ; 58,131 man/years of manual labor were created since the works began.

Despite a slow start, this component achieved a satisfactory level of completion. Awareness-building
activities progressively changed the attitude of the population of the utility of community action in the
resolution of environmental problems. Community associations in the zone covered by the project have
become the interlocutors of city authorities on matters of environmental improvement. Training of
environmental trainers changed attitudes on the role of community action to resolve common problems,
implement micro projects, etc. It will be necessary to go beyond the project implementation period to
appreciate the impact and the sustainability of actions to support community participation, since changes in



                                                     - 36 -

public attitudes take time; in order to be sustainable, these actions must be continuously supported. The
major concern for component 3 is the sustainability of project achievements which are based on
voluntarism of the local volunteers or association members, who are equally concerned with finding and
maintaining paying employment.

Another project result is that the principle of concessioning management of public latrines has spread to the
city's other public toilets , following the experience in the pilot neighborhood of Bè. The major problem of
the public toilets in Bè is the poor functioning of the plant-based water treatment. This has caused
pollution in the lakes, inconveniences for neighboring residents and excessive operations costs. Latrine
managers feel that the system causes more problems than it resolves. A study is needed to understand the
problems in this system and suggest improvements.

The objective of the urban sector review subcomponent was achieved with the preparation of an urban
strategy and the adoption of a national urban sector policy

The municipal development subcomponent achieved its objectives in terms of tools and methods put in
place : aside from the freeze on leasing parking garages in Lomé, the project achieved a return to budgetary
rigor, strengthening of city personnel, the reorganization of technical services, the establishment of new
work methods, particularly in solid waste management, and autonomous management of markets. The
achievement of medium and long term objectives can only be measured in the period following project
implementation. The reasons are that (a) the current political and institutional environment is unfavorable
to the consolidation of many of the project achievements and (b) the multiplicity of decision-making
bodies, their influence on city management and outside interference limit the city's autonomy to manage its
affairs.

3.       IMPLEMENTATION RESULTS

Implementation of Lomé UDP suffered from the beginning from an insufficient understanding of the project
objectives as well as from the difficulties inherent in introducing a new institutional framework
(establishment of STCC and AGETUR-Togo; involvement of the City of Lomé, of different ministerial
departments, of CARE-Togo in project implementation ; the choice of the Bè Development Committee, a
local structure, as a part of the project, etc) The innovation in the project framework brought together
structures that have never worked together before; however difficulties in coordination were overcome by
the end of 1996. The project would have regained momentum at the beginning of 1997 and would have
achieved its objectives on time had it not been for the long periods of suspension that slowed down its
implementation.

Establishment of the two implementing agencies enabled good project implementation, even sufficient
emphasis was not put on the regular monitoring of performance indicators.

Users would have been completely satisfied with road upgrading if not for problems with the bicycle lanes,
a small innovation that greatly inconvenienced users. This is why AGETUR-Togo bicycles lanes in the last
road works.

In addition, as infrastructure was completed and turned over to the municipality, it became obvious that the
city lacked adequate management and maintenance procedures.

The quality of national consultants, who undertook the many studies involved in the urban sector review,
proved to be at the level of IDA's and the government' s expectations. They responded with quality work


                                                      - 37 -

each time they were used, whether for contracting or for the review of studies conducted by CERU

The World Bank, through its supervision missions and its office in Togo provided substantial support to
project implementation. The two successive team leaders for the project were always available both during
missions and while in Washington when called by the Borrower to provide advice and problem resolution.
Request for IDA nonobjection were treated diligently and in a timely manner.

Requests for replenishment and reallocation of the special accounts, were done quickly, both by the
Borrower and by IDA. Reallocation requests were done in a regular manner. However, neither the
Borrower nor IDA were vigilant enough to do reallocations by component. Reallocations by disbursement
category tended to favor works, to the detriment of institutional support. The management flexibility
established within the project facilitated the creation of a real partnership between the Bank and the project
management team

D.       LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PROJECT

1.       GAINS

The Lomé UDP achieve important gains.

The CCGU, originally only conceived to manage the UDP, has become a national resource: an institution
coordinating urban and municipal actors. This role has been formalized by a decree extending its authority
to cover the entire country. For efficiency, branches of the CCGU have been established in secondary cities

The STCC, which acted as the secretariat to the CCGU has, through its activities (studies, urban mapping,
organizing seminars and workshops) become a key actor in urban issues. Likewise, its library and center
of documentation is regularly consulted by researchers, consultants and students working on urban or local
development. Given STCC's growing role in urban and local development, the CCGU and the Union of
Mayors, with donor agreement, decided to establish a permanent urban development agency to advise and
support local authorities. Thus STCC has become the autonomous agency Citafric.

Lomé UDP served as the inspiration for two other donor projects :
         o        The Urban Integration and Local Cooperation Project (Projet d'intégration urbaine et de
         coopération de proximité - PIUCP)                   providing institutional support to 3 secondary
         cities and to the technical service of the City of Lomé.
         o        The Urban and Community Infrastructure Rehabilitation Project (Projet de réhabilitation
         d'infrastructures communautaires et         urbaines - PRICUR) providing UNDP and HABITAT
         support to the city of Tsévié and the neighborhood of Nukafu in Lomé.

Citafric has benefited from the large pool of experience and expertise stemming from the interaction among
these different urban projects It has benefited from equipment and experience gained not only from the
Lomé UDP but also PRICUR and PIUCP all of which were guided by the CCGU.

In addition, project staff benefited from training under the Lomé PDU which served to improve their
performance.

The establishment of AGETUR-Togo facilitated rapid credit disbursement through streamlined
procurement procedures. STCC was able to bridge the administration's lack of human resources.




                                                      - 38 -

2.      PROBLEMS ENCOUNTERED

The difficulty encountered by the Government in mobilizing its counterpart contribution was a factor
delaying works implementation In the future, it is hoped that other more flexible arrangements can be
found.

Given the suspension, project management was not able to perform a final project evaluation which would
have enabled the Government of Togo to have a base on which to found preparation of a Second Urban
Development Project targeting secondary cities. To this end, on the recommendation of the CCGU, the
Government will make every effort to do a post-project sector review and draft a new project.

In addition, up to UDP closing, the activities of the implementing agencies were mainly funded by Credit
2620-TO. Thus, project closing puts these agencies in difficult straits, at a time when the major challenges
of urban development (decentralization and good governance) are at stake and the need for effective
municipal structures is greater than ever. The situation can only improve if the agencies find new sources of
financing and manage their operating expense to ensure their viability and reduce the financial risks
resulting from a reduced work program.

Lomé, April 4, 2003




                                                     - 39 -

Additional Annex 9. Borrower's Competion Report

                         PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT URBAIN DE LOME

                                           RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT


A.        PRESENTATION

1.        L'ENVIRONNEMENT URBAIN DE LOME

Sous une pression démographique galopante de 5% en moyenne par an, la surface urbanisée de la ville de Lomé est
passée de 1'900 hectares à 9'000 hectares en vingt ans. Cette extension rapide n'a pas été soutenue par une
politique d'infrastructures physiques et une offre en services urbains viables, susceptibles de garantir le bon
fonctionnement de la ville. Ainsi, les 1'394 kilomètres de voies, dont 78% sans aucun aménagement, sont inondables
et impraticables, rendant par conséquent, beaucoup de quartiers d'accès difficile et la circulation déjà malaisée,
encore plus ardue en période de pluies.

Le libéralisme foncier, tout en favorisant l'accès à la propriété pour tous, n'a pas permis la maîtrise et la
programmation de la croissance de la ville encore moins d'asseoir une véritable politique de gestion urbaine.
L'environnement et les conditions sanitaires déplorables sur l'ensemble de la ville revêtent un caractère plus
inquiétant dans les vieux quartiers où les puits peu profonds, utilisés pour des besoins d'eau, deviennent, en période
de pluies, de véritables collecteurs d'effluents des latrines naturelles érigées sur des dépotoirs sauvages.

La collecte des ordures ménagères concédée à l'entreprise SOTOEMA, subventionnée en grande partie par l'Etat,
ne couvre que la vieille ville et le quartier administratif.

Malgré la dotation de la municipalité de Lomé, de la personnalité morale et de l'autonomie financière, conformément à
la loi 81.1 du 23 juin 1981, elle n'était pas à même de faire face à l'importante demande de services urbains, parce
qu'en réalité, la commune manque de ressources humaines et financières, ainsi que des structures et outils de
gestion performants et adéquats.

2.        LE PROJET

2.1.      Les objectifs

Le Pdu-Lomé initié par le Gouvernement du Togo, avec l'appui financier de la Banque mondiale a pour objectif
immédiat d'aider le Gouvernement togolais à appliquer sa politique de développement urbain par :
v         l'exécution de travaux urbains prioritaires présentant un impact optimum sur l'emploi et les revenus ;
v         la promotion de PME dans le secteur du bâtiment et des travaux publics ;
v         la participation de résidents, de groupes communautaires et d'ONG à des activités d'amélioration de
l'environnement local.

A long terme :
v         le renforcement des capacités des collectivités locales à gérer le développement urbain ;
v         la gestion du cycle de l'eau et des ordures ménagères ;
v         la préparation des réformes nécessaires à l'amélioration de la mobilisation des ressources locales et au
renforcement du rôle joué par les villes dans le développement du pays ;
v         la contribution significative à la réduction de la pauvreté en milieu urbain.



                                                             - 40 -

Le PDU de Lomé est en outre dans une première étape destiné à expérimenter des approches permettant de
répondre aux objectifs de la stratégie sectorielle. Il sera suivi d'autres, dès que les capacités de mise en oeuvre des
acteurs urbains le permettront.

2.2.     La description

Le PDU Lomé comprend quatre composantes.

2.2.1.   `'Amélioration des conditions de transport et de circulation''.

La composante concerne la construction et la réhabilitation de cinq grandes artères de la Ville de Lomé et en la mise
en oeuvre de mesures d'amélioration de la circulation et de la sécurité routière.

2.2.2.   `'Amélioration de l'environnement et des conditions sanitaires''

Dans cette composante, il est prévu la réalisation de travaux de lutte contre l'érosion, des travaux paysagers, le
dragage du lac de Bè et le drainage de deux zones pilotes dans le quartier de Bè.

2.2.3.   `'Appui au développement et travaux communautaires''

Dans le cadre de cette composante, il est prévu (i) un appui au développement de la participation de la population
locale, à la conception, l'exécution et la gestion d'activités visant à améliorer l'environnement sanitaire, social et
économique ; (ii) la réalisation de micro-projets, d'un centre communautaire et de latrines publiques; et (iii) un
programme de formation à la gestion communautaire de l'environnement .

2.2.4.   `'Renforcement des institutions urbaines''

Cette composante vise la préparation d'un plan d'action destiné à améliorer et rationaliser la gestion urbaine,
améliorer la mobilisation des ressources et des finances locales et renforcer la capacité de gestion de la Ville de
Lomé.

2.3.     Le montage institutionnel

Le montage institutionnel retenu pour la mise en oeuvre du Pdu-Lomé comprend :
         un Comité de Coordination pour la Gestion Urbaine (CCGU), comité interministériel de supervision du projet
composé de sept ministères, du Maire de Lomé et du Président du Comité de développement de Bè (CDB) ;
         un Secrétariat Technique du Comité de Coordination (STCC) chargé du suivi et de l'exécution des activités
du projet ;
         un Comité d'Etudes et de Réformes Urbaines (CERU) ;
         une Agence d'exécution des travaux urbains, l'AGETUR-Togo, association de droit privé autonome, chargée
de l'exécution de travaux programmés dans le cadre du projet.

B.        L'ETAT D'EXECUTION DU PROJET

Les dates marquantes de l'exécution du PDU de Lomé sont les suivantes :
         Avril 1994, mise en place du CCGU & de l'AGETUR-Togo ;
         Décembre 1994, mise en place du STCC & du CERU ;
         Janvier 1995, signature de l'Accord de crédit 2620-TO ;



                                                          - 41 -

          Mai 1995, déblocage de la première avance (248.175.000 francs cfa) ;
          1er janvier au 14 avril 1999, 1ème suspension des décaissements ;
          14 novembre 2000 à 15 août 2001, 2ème suspension des décaissements ;
          1er janvier 2002 à décembre 2002, 3ème suspension des décaissements ;
          31 décembre 2002, clôture du projet.

1.        EXECUTION PHYSIQUE

1.1.      Composante 1 `'Amélioration des conditions de transport et de circulation''

Elle comprend trois volets.

Le premier dénommé `'Construction et/ou la réhabilitation de 9,9 km de voies'', 12,11 km de voies ont été assainies et
pavées. Il s'agit des voies suivantes :
·         Boulevard de l'Oti : 2,27 km
·         Boulevard de Malfakassa : 1,9 km
·         Avenue de Gakli-Djidjolé/Pya : 2, 39 km
·         Avenue de Pya Prolongée : 2, 05 km
·         Avenue la Libération Prolongée :1,1 km
·         Rue Notre Dame des Apôtres : 2,40 km

Le volet `'Amélioration de la sécurité et de la circulation routière'' a permis :
·         l'installation de feux tricolores sur deux carrefours (Gakli-Djidjolé-Pya/route Kpalimé et bd du 13 janvier/Rue
Notre Dame des Apôtres ;
·         l'aménagement de 4 ronds points (2 sur l'itinéraire Gakli-Djidjolé/Pya et Pya Prolongée et 2 sur bd Oti /
Malfakassa) ;
·         la production et diffusion d'un sketch pour informer et sensibiliser les populations sur l'utilisation des pistes
cyclables.

Le volet `'Etudes de la circulation dans la ville de Lomé'' a été réalisé plutôt dans le cadre d'un autre projet (Projet de
réhabilitation des transports), où une équipe de la Direction générale des transports a identifié des points
d'accumulation des accidents dans la ville, qui ont fait l'objet d'avant projets sommaires visant la réduction des
risques d'accidents et une meilleure sécurité des usagers.

1.2       Composante 2 `'Amélioration de l'environnement et des conditions sanitaires''

Cette composante se décline en cinq volets.

Le premier volet est la mise en place de protection anti-érosive de 40 hectares sur la berge nord du lac de Bè. Il a
permis des travaux suivants :
·         construction de 2 types de cunettes (l'une constituée d'une voie pavée au centre sur une largeur de 0,85 m
avec une bande aménagée sur chaque côté, l'autre constituée d'une voie pavée au centre sur une largeur de 3 m
avec des murets transversaux), la longueur totale des cunettes est de 1'257 ml ;
·         aménagement de la voie nord du lac de Bè (largeur 5 m) en graveleux latéritique et la construction
de 2'346 ml de caniveaux ;
·         rechargement en graveleux latéritique de 1'400 m² de la voie Bè Hédjé Kpota et la construction de 1'500 ml
de caniveaux ;
·         la plantation de gazons, d'arbres et d'arbustes ;




                                                            - 42 -

Le second volet `'Aménagement des berges sud du lac de Bè'', a permis, outre la réalisation d'actions prévues (la
plantation d'arbres sur la rive sud du lac de Bè et partiellement du lac Est, éclairage public du site aménagé devant le
CCB qui sont prévus), la construction d'une grille le long de la rive sud du lac de Bè et partiellement sur du lac Est
pour protéger les espaces aménagés.

L'exécution du troisième volet `'Curage du lac de Bè'' a abouti au dragage hydraulique de 200'813 m3 de sédiments
dont 20'000 m3 de vase et 180'813 m3 de sable ; ces travaux ont permis de faire passer la côte du fond du lac de Bè
d'une superficie de 31 ha à + 0,50 m IGN ou + 0,60 m IGN, et de niveler les déblais. Les études hydrologiques
prévues dans le cadre du curage, ne se sont plus limitées aux seuls aspects techniques ; elles ont concerné aussi la
qualité de l'eau avant, pendant et après le curage.

Pour ce qui est du quatrième volet `'Drainage de deux zones pilotes dans le quartier de Bè'', les travaux réalisées
conformément aux prévisions sont les suivants :
·        drainage par la plantation sur 40 ha des essences ayant des propriétés évapo-transpiratrices pour le
rabattement de la nappe phréatique ;
·        drainage par (i) la fourniture et la pose de 6'000 ml de drains souterrains de Ø 80 mm, de 498 ml collecteurs
de Ø 100 mm, de 2'400 ml collecteurs de Ø 150 mm, de 1'400 ml de collecteurs de Ø 200 mm, (ii) construction de 67
regards de visite, (iii) construction 260 ml de caniveaux 0,60 X (0,80 à 1,00 m), (iv) construction de 11 puits
d'observation, (v) aménagement d'une chaussée en graveleux latéritique à double dévers de 3 % fonctionnant en 2
voies bidirectionnelles de 1'712 m de long et de 9 m de large.

Le dernier volet de la composante, `'Audit de la gestion des ordures ménagères à Lomé'', est également réalisé ; les
recommandations de l'étude ont été traduites en opération pilote d'expérimentation, dont l'exécution a engendré la
construction et l'équipement de deux dépotoirs intermédiaires, l'exécution d'un programme d'animation et de
sensibilisation pour amener la population à connaître et à adhérer aux nouvelles méthodes de gestion des ordures
ménagères préconisées par l'audit et la concession de gestion à un opérateur privé. Cette opération a été évaluée et
la conclusion du rapport est que la nouvelle méthode de gestion des OM s'est généralisée, avec des adaptations
dans la ville ; il appartient maintenant à la municipalité de l'améliorer et l'institutionnaliser.

1.3.     Composante `'Appui au développement et travaux communautaires''

La composante 3 est comprend de quatre volets.

Le volet `'formation à la gestion communautaire de l'environnement'' confié à l'ONG `'CARE Togo'', a permis la
réalisation d'une étude de base pour déterminer les besoins en formation dans le domaine de la sensibilisation, la
sélection et la formation de 30 formateurs endogènes (FE) bénévoles( au lieu de 10 bénévoles et permanents prévue
initialement), en vue de sensibiliser la population à la gestion de l'environnement. Par ailleurs, CARE- Togo, a
apporté aux structures locales de base intervenant dans la zone Bè, un appui institutionnel pour améliorer leur
capacité d'encadrement et de gestion, ainsi que leur efficacité dans l'identification et la gestion de projets
communautaires.

Le volet `Amélioration des conditions sanitaires du quartier de Bè'' a favorisé la réalisation d'un schéma directeur des
latrines publiques et de travaux : (i) de réhabilitation de huit latrines publiques et (ii) de construction de quatre latrines,
dont la gestion a été concédée aux associations de la zone, regroupées au sein de LATRICOM, une structure
fédérative. Par ailleurs, dans le cadre de ce volet, des associations et FE se sont vus confier les travaux de
plantations des berges sud et nord du Lac de Bè. Les résultats mitigés de ces opérations amènent aux conclusions
suivantes : (i) les réalisations censées concourir à la protection de l'environnement sont entretenues si les
bénéficiaires sont effectivement associées à leur identification ou s'ils les jugent utiles ; (ii) la sensibilisation pour la
protection de l'environnement n'est efficace que si elle est doublée de mesures coercitives à l'encontre des riverains
inciviques. Enfin ce volet a permis la création de brigades opérationnelles de précollete d'ordures ménagères ; leur



                                                            - 43 -

contribution à la suppression progressive des dépotoirs sauvages dans la zone est importante; mais le dégagement
des dépotoirs contrôlés par la municipalité souffre encore d'insuffisance.

Pour ce qui est du volet `'micro-projets'' de la composante 3, son démarrage a été relativement lent ; il a fallu
préalablement (i) sensibiliser et informer la population sur son enjeu, (ii) apporter un appui technique pour la
formulation de demandes de micro projets. A la date de clôture du projet, 50 micro-projets ont été identifiés avec
l'appui des FE et soumis à l`approbation du CCGU, 30 répondent aux critères de sélection, 17 ont été financés et
réalisés. La contrepartie des populations concernées par les micro-projets, qui représente 10% du coût du projet,
s'est avéré difficile à mobiliser et a constitué un frein à la mise en oeuvre effective des projets identifiés. Par ailleurs,
beaucoup de demandes de micro-projets d'activités génératrices de revenus ont été formulées, sans une réponse
positive.

Le dernier volet de la composante est la `'Construction du Centre Communautaire de Bè" (CCB). Sa gestion a été
concédée par la municipalité au CDB. A cet effet, un directeur a été recruté et placé sous la tutelle d'un Conseil
d'administration. Les instruments élaborés pour la gestion du centre sont (i) un cahier de charges pour la gestion,
l'exploitation, l'entretien et la maintenance, (ii) un manuel de procédures de gestion. Depuis sa mise en service, les
recettes du CCB suffisaient juste pour couvrir les charges ; ce qui explique que toutes les clauses du cahier de
charges de la maintenance (badigeon périodique, travaux de maintenance, etc.) ne sont pas respectées. Le conseil
d'administration qui a été renouvelé en 2002 se réuni fréquemment. Les associations se sont appropriées totalement
ce centre, qui est devenu un lieu d'intenses activités culturelles, même tard dans la nuit.

1.4.      Composante `'Renforcement des institutions urbaines''.

Dès le démarrage de ses activités, la composante a été réorganisée en deux sous composantes et les objectifs ont
été sériés pour mieux répondre aux besoins immédiats du secteur :
          la sous composante "Renforcement de la capacité de gestion de la Ville de Lomé" cherche à doter la Ville de
moyens nécessaires pour améliorer les services urbains précaires ;
          la sous composante "Revue du secteur urbain" vise à aider le Gouvernement à développer une stratégie de
développement du secteur.

1.4.1.    Renforcement de la capacité de gestion de la Ville de Lomé

La sous-composante a démarré par un diagnostic de la gestion municipale qui révèle : (i) une mauvaise utilisation
des rares ressources disponibles, (ii) la faiblesse des ressources humaines (dont le personnel d'encadrement), (iii)
une faible capacité de gestion, (iv) une gestion déficiente des équipements marchands, (v) la mauvaise gestion
budgétaire. Une stratégie d'amélioration de la gestion de la Ville de Lomé a été alors élaborée et adoptée par le
Ministère de l'Intérieur, le Ministère des Finances et le Conseil Municipal de la Ville de Lomé. Elle a été déclinée en
un plan d'actions couvrant quatre thèmes :
          gestion administrative et financière de la Ville ;
          gestion technique ;
          gestion des équipements collectifs (marchés, gares routières, latrines) ;
          mobilisation des ressources locales.

Au plan de la gestion administrative et financière, on note : (i) la reprise et le respect des principes de rigueur
budgétaires dans la préparation des budgets communaux ; (ii) la mise en place d'une nomenclature et d'un manuel
de procédures comptables et budgétaires ; (iii) la mise à disposition d'un personnel d'encadrement pour prendre en
charge la gestion des services financiers de la commune (appui d'une assistance technique internationale pendant
deux ans, recrutement d'un Directeur des affaires financières sur une base contractuelle) ; (iv) la création d'une
recette municipale ; (v) la réorganisation des services de la mairie et l'adoption d'un organigramme; (vi) la formation
du personnel.


                                                            - 44 -

Au plan de la gestion des services techniques, on note : (i) la création d'une direction des services techniques et
d'une cellule de maîtrise d'ouvrage ; (ii) le renforcement du personnel d'encadrement ; (iii) l'amélioration du
rendement des services techniques et de la fourniture des travaux et services par un recours de plus en plus aux
entreprises (entretien de la voirie, nettoyage des voies et espaces publics, curage des caniveaux, etc.) ; (iv)
l'amélioration de l'enlèvement des ordures ménagères avec la mise en place d'un système de collecte à deux
niveaux (la pré collecte est assurée par des structures locales de base et de la collecte est confiée sur la base de la
compétition aux acteurs du secteur privé.

Au plan de la gestion des équipements collectifs : (i) la création de l'EPAM a permis d'assainir les finances de la régie
des marchés et d'améliorer les services rendus aux usagers ; (ii) la concession de la gestion des latrines publiques a
amélioré la qualités des services rendues, même si des problèmes persistent en ce qui concerne l'hygiène (les frais
liés à l'abonnement au réseau d'eau amènent les gestionnaires à faire des économies drastiques dans ce domaine,
et les répercussions sur l'hygiène peuvent être catastrophiques). Jusqu'à la clôture du PDU de Lomé, l'affermage des
gares routières engagé depuis trois ans n'a toujours pas abouti, les syndicats de chauffeurs actuels gestionnaires de
fait, ne veulent pas laisser les fermiers pressentis jouer leur rôle.

Au plan de la mobilisation des ressources locales, la cellule d'adressage mise en place et équipée en matériel et
logiciels a su superviser la réalisation de l'opération d'adressage de Lomé, de la pose des plaques et de l'édition d'un
plan guide. Par ailleurs, il a été entrepris en même temps que l'adressage, le recensement parcellaire. Les services
des impôts ont bénéficié d'un appui pour la mise en place des impôts locaux, objet de la loi des finances 1998. Le
recouvrement s'avère difficile. Une évaluation des réformes permettrait d'apprécier la situation réelle.

1.4.2.    La revue du secteur urbain.

Cette sous composante a prévu la réalisation des études dans les domaines suivants (i) économie urbaine, (ii)
décentralisation et participation communautaire, (iii) pauvreté urbaine et enfin (vi) habitat et aménagement. Elle a été
réalisé en plusieurs étapes : réalisation des études, validation des études par le CERU, validation des études au
niveau régional, puis national. La revue a favorisé la consolidation d'une expertise locale et la participation d'un
maximum d'acteurs urbains ; elle a été l'occasion d'une avancée de la politique du secteur, le contenu et la
décentralisation que le gouvernement a voté. La revue est sanctionnée par une déclaration de politique nationale du
secteur urbain approuvée par le conseil des ministres.

2.        EXECUTION FINANCIERE

Selon l'accord de crédit IDA 2620-TO, (i) les passations des marchés ont été fait conformément aux procédures de la
Banque ; (ii) la gestion de l'AGETUR-Togo et du STCC ont été auditées périodiquement ; (iii) les dépenses ont été
regroupées par composante du projet et enregistrées systématiquement conformément aux principes et aux
procédures de comptabilité appliquée.

Pour exécuter le projet, le STCC et l'AGETUR-Togo ont ouvert et tenu des comptes distincts. Le projet fut géré selon
(i) les manuels de procédures financières et comptables et (ii) les réaménagements apportés au plan comptable et
aux procédures comptables. Tous les rapports financiers des deux agences ont toujours reçu le quitus des missions
de supervision et les rapports certifiés d'audits indépendants réalisés selon les procédures attestent que leurs états
financiers sont fiables et authentiques. Les contrats passés dans le cadre de l'exécution du projet sont conformes aux
procédures de passation des marchés de la Banque Mondiale et de l'ordonnateur national du crédit (voir en annexe
la situation des contrats avec les références de l'acceptation de la Banque par les avis de non objection).

Au plan des faiblesses dans l'exécution financière, on note que : (i) les deux agences n'ont pas mis en place une
gestion analytique par composante, parce qu'elles n'avaient pas opté pour une programmation annuelle d'activités



                                                           - 45 -

par composante, y compris le budget y afférent ; cette situation a favorisé la programmation lors des missions de
supervision et des réallocations de fonds par catégorie, au détriment des réallocations par composante ; (ii) le
manuel de gestion du projet n'a pas pris en compte la gestion des différences d'échanges, donc la comptabilité n'a
pas pu cerner le montant réel des dépenses et des décaissements qui ont été tenus de manière extra comptable.

Compte tenu du retard pris au démarrage du projet et des trois suspensions de décaissement intervenues lors de
l'exécution, la Banque a accepté de proroger l'exécution du projet jusqu'au 31 décembre 2002, au lieu de 31
décembre 1999 initialement prévue. A la date de clôture du projet, le montant total des décaissements se chiffre à
17'708'769,130 DTS soit 91%. La situation des décaissements, PPF (dépenses de préparation du projet) non
compris, se présente comme suit :

    DESIGNATION DES COMPOSANTES                         PREVISIONS             MONTANT DECAISSE          TAUX DE DECAISSE
                                                       (MILLIER USD)             (MILLIER USD)
                                                           Valeur                      %                     Valeur%
 Amélioration du Transport et de la Circulation                 12.503,62                    44 ,26                 9.127,65
 Amélioration des conditions sanitaires                          6.962,09                     24,65                 7.100,78
 Soutien à la participation communautaire de                     3.769,85                     13,35                 2.672,46
 Bè                                                              5.012,17                     17,74                 1.868,00
 Renforcement des institutions urbaines                                  -                         -            1861.4240,33
 Fonctionnement des agences d'exécution                                                                                31,37
                                                                                                                       11,80
                                                                                                                         8,25
                                                                                                                   8,2273,00
                                                                                                                      101,99
                                                                                                                       70,89
                                                                                                                       37,26
                                                                                                                       00,00

 TOTAL                                                          28.247,72                    100,00                22.630,31
                                                                                                                      100,00
                                                                                                              80,11

L'analyse des montants effectivement décaissés montre que les dépenses de fonctionnement des deux agences
représentent moins de 10% du total effectivement décaissé. Avec les 8,22% de fonctionnement, on note que le projet
est bien monté et sa réalisation est efficiente (voir le détail des décaissements par catégorie de dépenses et par
composantes ainsi que le détail des contrats passés dans le cadre du projet en annexe).

Les fonds de contrepartie prévus par l'accord de crédit du projet ont été mis en place de la manière suivante :
v          mise à la disposition du STCC de locaux, d'utilitaires et de trois cadres de la fonction publique en position de
détachement ;
v          versement aux entreprises par l'Etat de 694 millions francs cfa, depuis 1998, où le financement du projet
s'est fait d'une manière progressive conformément à l'accord de prêt ;
v          la Commune de Lomé 10 000 000 de francs cfa ;
v          les bénéficiaires à la base 19 658 093 de franc cfa.

Le versement des fonds de contreparties a été fortement perturbé avec les difficultés financières auxquels l'Etat est
confronté. A la clôture du projet, l'Etat doit aux entreprises, à titre de fonds de contrepartie la somme de 204'532'765
francs cfa ; le versement irrégulier de la contrepartie du gouvernement a perturbé l'exécution de certains travaux.




                                                           - 46 -

C.        APPRECIATION DU PROJET

1.        AU PLAN DE LA CONCEPTION

Le PDU de Lomé a le mérite d'avoir été le premier projet urbain au Togo à :
Ø         poser de manière globale la question du développement urbain et en relation avec le développement
municipal ;
Ø         intégrer la dimension `'participation communautaire''.

D'une manière générale, les objectifs du projet sont pertinents au regard de l'environnement urbain, du contexte
économique et social et enfin de l'environnement institutionnel du Togo au moment de la conception. Les
composantes prévues dans la conception sont conformes aux objectifs définis. On peut déplorer cependant dans
l'évaluation du projet l'inexistence d'un cadre logique, qui aurait pu faciliter le suivi des objectifs et des indicateurs de
performances, d'une part, et permettre de mieux apprécier les risques par composantes.

S'agissant de la composante 1, l'exigence des méthodes d'exécution des travaux à forte intensité de main d'oeuvre a
quelque peu perturbé le respect des calendriers de réalisation des travaux et altéré par conséquent, la qualité des
ouvrages en raison de la nature des sols : (i) au sud de la lagune, le sol sablonneux facilite les fouilles en tranchées
pour les caniveaux ou les décaissements, (ii) alors que sur le plateau de Tokoin, la terre de barre est plus difficile à
travailler manuellement pour ouvrir des tranchées et faire les décaissements (nombreux sont les manoeuvres qui
démissionnèrent face à un travail aussi ardu). De toute façon, le taux d'objectif des 20% de la main d'oeuvre par
rapport aux coûts des travaux serait atteint, même si certains travaux sont réalisés avec des engins (bulldozer, pelle
hydraulique, etc..).

Dans la conception de la composante 3, on peut déplorer le fait que l'ONG devant réaliser le volet formation et appui
aux structures locales de base dans la zone de Bè, soit nommément désignée par l'évaluation du projet avant même
la mise exécution. On aurait du laisser jouer la concurrence en lançant un appel à candidature qui aurait favorisé
l'émergence de plusieurs propositions de méthodes. A cet effet, pour pallier la faiblesse structurelle des ONG à
l'époque du montage du projet, l'appel à candidature aurait encouragé des groupements entre ONG nationales et
ONG internationales.

2.        AU PLAN DE LA REALISATION DES OBJECTIFS

Le programme des travaux réalisés dans le cadre des composantes 1 & 2, a été plus important que prévu. La Ville de
Lomé ne disposant pas d'un réseau d'assainissement suffisant, il               fallait réaliser des travaux de drainage non
programmés en même temps que les voiries. Par ailleurs, l'état des ouvrages de communication entre les différentes
lacs composant la lagune (buses, canal, etc.) a nécessité une intervention d'urgence faciliter par les échanges entre
lesdits lacs.

Eu égard aux travaux :
Ø         l'objectifs d'amélioration de l'accessibilité et les conditions de transport est réalisé (assainissement et
pavage de plus 12 km de voies) ;
Ø         l'objectif d'amélioration de l'environnement urbain est partiellement atteint (curage du lac de Bè et des
canaux de la lagune, drainage profond en rive sud du lac de Bè pour l'abaissement de la nappe phréatique)
Ø         l'objectif de soutien aux PME et de création d'emplois est satisfaisant (312 contrats ont été passés à 89 PME
; 27 bureaux d'études et de contrôle locaux ont bénéficié de 71 contrats ; 58'131 hommes/an ont été mobilisés
comme main d'oeuvre depuis le démarrage des travaux.

La composante, après un départ lent, a atteint un niveau de réalisation satisfaisant. Les actions de sensibilisation
favorisent une prise de conscience progressive du rôle de l'action associative dans la résolution des problèmes


                                                              - 47 -

environnementaux. Des associations de la zone deviennent progressivement des interlocuteurs des autorités de la
Ville en matière d'amélioration de l'environnement. La formation de FE a favorisé la prise de conscience du rôle de
l'action associative pour résoudre les problèmes communs, la réalisation de micro projet, etc. Pour estimer l'impact et
la pérennité des actions d'appui à la participation communautaire, il faut aller au-delà de la durée de la période
d'exécution du projet, car la prise de conscience d'une population se fait lentement, par ailleurs pour qu'elle soit
durable, elle doit être soutenue de manière continue. La préoccupation majeure dans le cadre de la composante 3
est la pérennité des acquis du projet qui se butte à la question du bénévolat des animateurs de base ou des
membres d'associations, dont les préoccupations en matière d'emploi sont prioritaires.

Sur une autre rubrique, on note que le principe de concéder la gestion des latrines publiques est désormais étendu
aux autres latrines publiques de la ville, suite à l'expérience de Bè. Le gros problème au niveau des latrines
publiques de Bè est le mauvais fonctionnement du système de digesteur par des plantes. Ces dysfonctionnements
engendrent la pollution des lacs, des désagréments aux voisins et des surcoûts d'exploitation. Les gestionnaires
estiment que les aménagements posent plus de problèmes qu'ils n'en résolvent. Une étude s'impose pour pouvoir
mieux apprécier les dysfonctionnements et y apporter des améliorations.

L'objectif de la sous composante `'revue du secteur urbain'' est réalisé avec l'élaboration de la stratégie urbaine et
l'adoption d'une politique nationale du secteur urbain.

Au plan de la sous composante `'développement municipal'', en matière de mesures, les objectifs sont satisfaisant ;
en dehors de la mise `'en stand by'' de l'affermage des gares routières de Lomé, on observe donc : (i) le retour à la
rigueur budgétaire, le renforcement du personnel d'encadrement, la réorganisation des services techniques, la mise
en oeuvre de nouvelles méthodes de travail, notamment en matière de gestion des ordures ménagères, la gestion
autonome des marchés. Pour ce qui est des mesures à moyen et long terme, les réalisation des objectifs s'inscrivent
plus dans la durée au delà du projet. Les explications à la base de cette situation sont entre autres éléments : (i) un
environnement politique et institutionnel peu favorable à la concrétisation des nombreuses actions engagées, (ii) la
multiplicité de centres de décisions, leur influence sur la gestion de la Ville et les sollicitations extérieures interfèrent
et perturbent l'autonomie de la gestion municipale.

3.        AU PLAN DE L'EXECUTION

La mise en oeuvre du PDU de Lomé a souffert au départ d'une compréhension insuffisante des objectifs du projet de
la part des différents acteurs ainsi que des difficultés inhérentes à l'introduction d'un type nouveau de montage
institutionnel (création et mise en place du STCC et de l'AGETUR-Togo ; implication de la Ville de Lomé, de différents
départements ministériels, de CARE-Togo dans la réalisation du PDU de Lomé ; choix du CDB, une structure de
base, comme partie prenante du projet ; etc.). L'innovation dans le montage amène des structures qui n'avaient pas
l'habitude de travailler ensemble, à coopérer dans le cadre du projet. Vers la fin de 1996, ces difficultés se sont
estompées. Le projet aurait pu évoluer de façon satisfaisante dès le début de 1997 et atteindre ses objectifs dans les
délais, s'il n'avait pas été marqué par de longues périodes de suspension des décaissements qui vont ralentir voir
mettre en léthargie son exécution.

La mise en place des deux agences a permis une bonne exécution du projet, même si l'accent n'a pas été mis
comme cela se devait sur le suivi régulier et permanent des indicateurs de performance.

L'appréciation de l'aménagement des axes par les usagers aurait pu être totale s'il n'y avait pas eu des critiques à
l'endroit des pistes cyclables, une innovation peu qui déroute les usagers. C'est ainsi que AGETUR-Togo a
abandonné leur programmation dans la dernière réalisation des voies.

Par ailleurs, on observe au fur et à mesure des réceptions des ouvrages que les procédures de maintenance et
gestion des ouvrages, ne sont totalement au point au niveau de la municipalité.



                                                          - 48 -

L'expertise nationale qui a été abondamment sollicitée pour la réalisation de plusieurs études programmées dans le
cadre de la revue du secteur urbain a été à la hauteur des espoirs placés en elle par l'IDA comme par l'emprunteur.
Elle a fourni un travail de qualité chaque fois que le PDU de Lomé a eu recours à elle, soit pour des consultations,
soit pour la validation des études dans le cadre du CERU.

La Banque mondiale à travers ses missions de supervision et sa représentation au Togo a apporté à l'exécution du
PDU de Lomé un appui important. Les deux chefs de projet qui se sont succédés dans la supervision de l'exécution
étaient toujours disponibles lors des missions comme quand ils sont sollicités au siège par l'emprunteur pour donner
de conseil pour résoudre un problème éventuel. Les avis de non objection de l'IDA sont traités avec diligence et
arrivent dans les délais.

Les demandes de réapprovisionnement ainsi que celles de réallocations du compte spécial sont vite traitées aussi
bien du côté de l'emprunteur que de l'IDA. Les demandes de réallocations sont déclenchées de façon régulière.
Cependant, l'emprunteur comme l'IDA n'ont pas été assez vigilants pour opérer les réallocations par composante.
Les ré allocations par catégorie ont favorisé les travaux au détriment de l'appui institutionnel. La souplesse du
management mise en oeuvre dans le cadre de projet a permis l'instauration d'un vrai partenariat entre la Banque et
l'équipe de pilotage du PDU de Lomé.


D.        L'EXPERIENCE A TIRER DU PROJET

1.        LES ACQUIS

La réalisation du PDU de Lomé a permis d'importants acquis.

Le CCGU initialement prévu pour gérer le PDU de Lomé, est devenu de fait un véritable organe national de
concertation des acteurs urbains et municipaux, d'où la prise d'un décret élargissant ses prérogatives à toute
l'étendue du territoire,      et pour des raisons d'efficacité, des comités de relais au niveau des centres urbains
secondaires ont été crées.

Le STCC, qui a assuré le secrétariat du CCGU, à travers les études réalisées, sa production cartographique,
l'organisation de séminaires et d'ateliers, est devenu un acteur clé dans les questions urbaines ; ainsi son centre de
documentation est en permanence visitée par des consultants, des chercheurs, des étudiants..., dont le travail
concerne le développement urbain ou municipal. Compte tenu de l'importance grandissant du STCC dans le dispositif
urbain et municipal, le CCGU et l'Union des maires du Togo, en concertation avec la communauté des bailleurs de
fonds au Togo, ont décidé de mettre place une agence de développement urbain et municipal dotée d'une plus large
autonomie et des moyens d'action dénommée Citafric. Cette dernière est une structure pérenne d'assistance et de
conseil aux collectivités locales.

La mise en place et la réalisation du PDU de Lomé sont par ailleurs à la base de l'initiation et le financement de deux
projets :
v         le Projet d'intégration urbaine et de coopération de proximité (PUICP) ; il a permis d'apporter un appui
institutionnel à trois villes secondaires au Togo et aux services techniques de la Ville de Lomé ;
v         le Projet de réhabilitation d'infrastructures communautaires et urbaines (PRICUR), qui a permis au PNUD,
au BIT et à HABITAT d'appuyer la Ville de Tsévié et le quartier "Nukafu" de Lomé.

La collaboration entre ces différents projets urbains a favorisé une somme de capital d'expérience important qui
aujourd'hui sont mis à la disposition de Citafric. En effet, cette dernière a bénéficié des acquis et du matériel non
seulement du PDU de Lomé, mais aussi de PRICUR et PUICP deux projets urbains qui étaient sous la tutelle du
CCGU.


                                                           - 49 -

Par ailleurs pendant l'exécution du PDU de Lomé, le personnel du projet a bénéficier de formation qui a
permis d'améliorer sa performance.

La mise en place de AGETUR-Togo, a permis la consommation rapide du crédit grâce à une procédure simplifiée de
passation de marché. Pour ce qui est du STCC, il a su pallier le manque de ressources humaines de l'administration.

2.        LES PROBLEMES

La contrepartie du Gouvernement a été un facteur de retard dans l'exécution des travaux, étant entendu que la
mobilisation de celle-ci a souvent été difficile. Il serait souhaitable qu'à l'avenir d'autres formules plus souples
puissent être envisagées.

 Compte tenue des suspensions de décaissements, la direction du projet n'a pas été en mesure de réaliser une
évaluation interne du projet finissant, qui aurait permis au Gouvernement togolais de disposer d'éléments objectifs
d'évaluation pour la préparation d'un 2ème Projet de développement urbain qui concernerait les centres urbains
secondaires du Togo. A cet effet, sur recommandation du CCGU, le gouvernement mettra tout en oeuvre pour
réaliser la revue du secteur post projet et élaborer un nouveau projet.

Par ailleurs, jusqu'à la clôture du PDU de Lomé le financement des actions des agences est principalement assuré
par les fonds du Crédit 2620-TO et la fin du projet met les agences en difficulté à un moment où les grands défis de
développement urbain et municipal (décentralisation et bonne gouvernance) à relever sont de mise et nécessitent les
compétences de telles structures. Elles ne peuvent sortir de cette mauvaise passe, qu'en recherchant de nouvelles
sources de financements et en faisant des efforts pour maîtriser leurs dépenses de fonctionnement pour assurer leur
viabilité et diminuer les risques financiers pouvant résulter des baisses du niveau d'activités.

Lomé, le 4 avril 2003




                                                           - 50 -

- 51 -

