Page  1
                                                           CONFORMED COPY
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2620 TO
                       Development Credit Agreement
                     (Togo Urban Development Project)
                                  between
                             REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 12, 1995
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2620 TO
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated January 12, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
TOGO (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
Page  2
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Special Account" means the accounts referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) and (c) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "AGETUR" means Agence d'Execution des Travaux
Urbains, a non-profit association established by the resolution
of l'Assemblee Generale Constitutive de l'AGETUR, dated April
12, 1994;
      (c)   "CCGU" means Comite de Coordination de la Gestion
Urbaine, the urban management steering committee, established
by decree No. 94-032/PR, dated April 24, 1994 of the Borrower;
      (d)   "CDB" means Comite de Developpement de Be, a
committee recorded under the number 7239 on November 2, 1992 by
the Borrower's ministry responsible for interior;
      (e)   "CFAF" or "CFA francs" means the currency of the
Borrower;
      (f)   "DGUH" means Direction Generale de l'Urbanisme et de
l'Habitat, a division of the Borrower's ministry responsible
for civil works and mines (Ministere de l'Equipement et des
Mines);
      (g)   "City of Lome Working Group" means the working group
established by the CCGU to assess and coordinate the Borrower's
strategy on city structures and limits of the city of Lome;
      (h)   "Municipal Finance Rehabilitation Working Group"
means the working group established by the CCGU to formulate
proposals regarding the rationalization of the city of Lome's
financial management, the improvement of tax collection and
cost recovery for services rendered;
      (i)   "MEF" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
economy and finance;
      (j)   "MEM" means the Borrower's ministry responsible for
civil works and mines (Ministere de l'Equipement et des Mines);
      (k)   "Micro-projects" means the community based projects
proposed by CDB to CCGU for financing under the Community
Participation Component of the Project, (Part C of Schedule 2);
      (l)   "SME" means small and medium enterprises;
      (m)   "STCC" means Secretariat Technique du Comite de
Coordination, established pursuant to decree No. 94-118/PMRT
dated December 23, 1994, of the Borrower's ministry responsible
for civil works and mines;
      (n)   "City of Lome" means the area covered by the
municipality of Lome and its urban suburbs;
      (o)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into by the Borrower and AGETUR in accordance with
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement;
      (p)   "Project Account" means any of the accounts referred
to in Section 3.02; and
      (q)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advances granted by the Association to the Borrower
Page  3
pursuant to two exchanges of letters dated May 31, 1985 and
September 15, 1985 and May 25, 1988 and June 30, 1988
respectively between the Borrower and the Association.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million six hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,600,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A.1,
A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project, open and maintain
in CFA francs a special deposit account (Special Account STCC)
in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, including appropriate protection against set-
off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of,
the Special Account STCC shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of Parts A.2,
A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and C.5 of the Project and
through the Subsidiary Agreement, cause AGETUR to open and
maintain in CFA francs a special deposit account (Special
Account AGETUR), on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against setoff,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account "AGETUR" shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
      (d)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1999
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date and at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date
in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
Page  4
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1
commencing June 1, 2004 and ending December 1, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 1, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall carry out Parts
A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project, through
CCGU, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, administrative, environmental and
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the Project; and (ii) shall cause AGETUR to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the Subsidiary Agreement all
the respective obligations of AGETUR therein set forth, shall
Page  5
take and cause to be taken all action, including the provision
of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary
or appropriate to enable AGETUR to perform such obligations,
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
      (b)   For the purpose of carrying out Parts A.2, A.3, B.2,
B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and C.5 of the Project, the Borrower
shall enter into an agreement with AGETUR (the Subsidiary
Agreement) on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association which shall include, inter alia:
            (i)   delegation of authority for all procurement
                  actions and for award, signature and payment of
                  contracts;
            (ii)  provision for the transfer of the proceeds of
                  the Credit on a non-reimbursable basis: (A) for
                  purposes of financing the activities to be
                  carried out under Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3,
                  B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and C.5 of the Project; and
                  (B) in the case of AGETUR, for the operating
                  costs and equipment of AGETUR, including the
                  obligation of AGETUR to return all of its
                  equipment to the Borrower upon completion of
                  the Project or the day before its dissolution
                  in accordance with the statutes of AGETUR,
                  whatever happens first;
           (iii)  the obligation of AGETUR to take all
                  measures necessary to ensure that Parts
                  A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3,
                  and C.5 of the Project are carried out
                  with due diligence and efficiency and in
                  accordance with appropriate
                  administrative, technical, environmental
                  and financial practices;
            (iv)  the obligation of AGETUR to keep key positions
                  filled with employees with adequate experience
                  and qualifications;
            (v)   the obligation of AGETUR to promptly inform the
                  Borrower and the Association of any condition
                  which interferes, or threatens to interfere,
                  with the progress of the Project, the
                  accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit,
                  or the performance by AGETUR of its obligations
                  under the Subsidiary Agreement;
            (vi)  the obligation of AGETUR to provide quarterly
                  and annual reports of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Borrower or the Association shall
                  reasonably request; and
           (vii)  the methods and procedures applicable to
                  the retrocession of part of the Credit
                  proceeds to AGETUR.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
      (d)   Without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out Parts A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project and
shall cause AGETUR to carry out Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4,
B.5, C.2, C.3, and C.5 in accordance with the Implementation
Page  6
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Without limitation upon any of its
obligations under Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower
shall:
      (a)   establish and maintain, for the purposes of Parts
A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project, a Project
Account (hereinafter referred to as Project Account STCC) in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association to be used exclusively for the purposes of meeting
expenditures incurred under Parts A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4
and D of the Project, which are not externally financed;
      (b)   cause AGETUR to establish and maintain, for the
purposes of Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and
C.5 of the Project, a Project Account (hereinafter referred to
as Project Account AGETUR) in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association to be used
exclusively for the purposes of meeting expenditures incurred
under Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and C.5 of
the Project, which are not externally financed;
      (c)   deposit into each of the Project Accounts, promptly
before each fiscal quarter, sufficient funds to pay the
Borrower's contribution to the financing of the Project
required for such fiscal quarter, as estimated by the Borrower
in consultation with the Association; and
      (d)   ensure that the initial deposits to be made pursuant
to paragraph (c) above shall occur no later than January 31,
1997.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, for the purposes of
overall Project coordination, maintain the CCGU for the
duration of the Project.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall, through the directorate
of Hydraulics and Energy, responsible for sanitation, of the
Borrower's ministry responsible for civil works and mines,
monitor changes in the functioning of the Be lagoon system, in
the operations of the sanitation mechanisms and in the
characteristics of the Be lagoon water. The Borrower shall as
well secure the preservation of the Be lagoon. This monitoring
shall occur before the start up of the Be lagoon dredging and
continue after its completion thereafter.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) transmit to the
Association for its approval prior to implementation the annual
work and studies programs approved by CCGU; and (b) communicate
to the Association for its prior approval the program of micro-
projects, after its approval by CCGU. These communications
shall occur not later than one month before the anticipated
date of submission of the programs to the executing agencies.
      Section 3.06. The Borrower shall carry out the road safety
and improvement recommendations included in the final report on
the urban traffic and transport study, referred to in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, within six months following the submission
of this final report.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall propose for consideration
by the General Assembly of AGETUR, as Director General of
AGETUR, a person whose experience, qualifications and terms of
employment are satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all actions and
measures necessary to ensure that the revenues of the
Municipality of Lome from the assessment and collection of
property and professional taxes increase by 5% at least each
year, starting the third year after the effectiveness of this
Agreement.
Page  7
      Section 3.09. The Borrower shall: (a) by June 30, 1997,
carry out jointly with the Association a midterm review of the
Project which shall cover inter alia: (i) an assessment of the
overall progress achieved in Project implementation by the
Borrower and AGETUR for each component of the Project; and (ii)
an identification of the major constraints to Project's
implementation;
      (b)   thereafter, carry out such corrective actions as the
Borrower and the Association shall determine in accordance with
a time schedule satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association; and
      (c)   in order to facilitate this review, prepare and
submit to the Association, not later than four weeks before the
scheduled date of this review, a report of Project activities
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested.
      Section 3.10. The Borrower shall carry out and cause
AGETUR to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms
and provisions of a Project implementation manual acceptable to
the Association.
      Section 3.11. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1, A.4, A.5,
B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the
Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                  for the Special Account "STCC" and the Project
                  Accounts for each fiscal year audited, in
                  accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                  consistently applied, by independent auditors
                  acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, a
                  certified copy of the report of such audit by
                  said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                  as the Association shall have reasonably
                  requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning said records, accounts
                  and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                  from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
Page  8
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                  Association has received the audit for the
                  fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                  the Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause AGETUR to
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations and financial
condition of AGETUR.
      (b)   The Borrower shall cause AGETUR to:
            (i)   have its records, accounts and financial
                  statements (balance sheets, statements of
                  income and expenses and related statements) and
                  the records and accounts for the Special
                  Account "AGETUR" for each fiscal year audited,
                  in accordance with appropriate auditing
                  principles consistently applied, by independent
                  auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as
                  available, but in any case not later than six
                  months after the end of each such year, (A)
                  certified copies of its financial statements
                  for such year as so audited, and (B) the report
                  of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
                  and in such detail as the Association shall
                  have reasonably requested; and
          (iii)   furnish to the Association such other
                  information concerning such records, accounts,
                  financial statements and the audit thereof as
                  the Association shall from time to time
                  reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall cause AGETUR to:
            (i)   maintain, in accordance with paragraph (a) of
                  this Section, records and accounts reflecting
                  such expenditures;
           (ii)   retain, until one year after the Association
                  has received the audit report for the fiscal
                  year in which the last disbursement from the
                  Credit Account was made, all records
                  (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                  and other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures;
Page  9
          (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                  examine such records; and
           (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                  included in the annual audit referred to in
                  paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                  report of such audit contains a separate
                  opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                  statements of expenditure submitted during such
                  fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                  internal controls involved in their
                  preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                  related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                              Other Covenants
      Section 5.01. The Borrower shall cause AGETUR:
      (a)   to take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or to make other provisions satisfactory to the Association
for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall
be consistent with appropriate practice;
      (b)   to carry out its operations and conduct its affairs
in accordance with sound administrative, financial,
environmental and technical practices under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers; and
      (c)   at all times to operate and to maintain its equipment
and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed,
to make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering, financial and administrative
practices.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Remedies of the Association
      Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, a situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that AGETUR will be able to perform
its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
      (b)   the Statutes of AGETUR shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of AGETUR to perform any
of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of AGETUR or for the supervision of its
operations;
      (d)   the Borrower or AGETUR shall have failed to perform
any of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary
Agreement; and
      (e)   the Subsidiary Agreement shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the Project or the performance of
AGETUR of its obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement.
      Section 6.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   the event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01
of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
Page  10
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any events specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of
Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VII
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 7.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower and AGETUR have entered into the
Subsidiary Agreement;
      (b)   the Borrower has established the "City of Lome"
working group and the "Municipal Finance Rehabilitation"
working group responsible for the preparation of the Borrower's
municipal development action plan, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association;
      (c)   the Borrower has entered into an agreement
satisfactory to the Association for the implementation of the
environmental management training program;
      (d)   CCGU and CDB have transmitted to the Association
their formal approval of the model contract, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, to be used for the
financing of the micro-projects;
      (e)   the Borrower, CDB and the Municipality of Lome have
entered into agreements satisfactory to the Association
regarding the contribution by CDB and the Municipality of Lome
to the Project's implementation;
      (f)   the Borrower and AGETUR shall have established
Project accounting systems satisfactory to the Association; and
      (g)   the Borrower has submitted draft standard bidding
documents, to be used for the procurement of goods and works,
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VIII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 8.01. The Minister in charge of finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministere de l'Economie et des Finances
            B.P. 387
            Lome
            Togo
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  MINFIE                    5286
                  Lome, Togo
Page  11
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INDEVAS                    197688 (TRT),
                  Washington, D.C.           248423 (RCA),
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                              82987 (FTCC)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                  REPUBLIC OF TOGO
                  By /s/ Kossivi Osseyi
                                                Authorized Representative
                  INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                  By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                                   Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                    SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Works:
    (a) civil works          10,200,000           100% until
        under Parts A                             December 31, 1996;
        and B of the                              85% thereafter
        Project
    (b) community             1,930,000           100% until
        works                                     December 31, 1996;
                                                  90% thereafter
(2) Equipment
    (a) STCC equip-             450,000           100%
        ment
Page  12
    (b) AGETUR equip-           220,000           100%
        ment
(3) Service                     470,000           100%
    Contract
    for AGETUR
(4) Consultant
    services and
    training:
    (a) STCC con-             1,600,000           100%
        sultant
    (b) AGETUR                1,070,000           100%
        consul-
        tant
(5) Incremental                 290,000           100%
    operating
    costs
    for STCC
(6) Refunding of                540,000           Amount due pur-
    Project Prepara-                              suant to Section
    tion Advance                                  2.02 (d) of this
                                                  Agreement
(7) Unallocated               1,830,000
                             __________
        TOTAL                18,600,000
                             ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "community works" means civil works under Part
C of the Project;
    (b)   the term "service contract for AGETUR" means the
expenditures incurred for the payment of AGETUR's services;
    (c)   the term "STCC equipment" means the expenditures
incurred for the acquisition of equipment necessary under Parts
A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project;
    (d)   the term "AGETUR equipment" means the expenditures
incurred for the acquisition of equipment necessary under Parts
A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3 and C.5 of the Project;
    (e)   the term "STCC consultants" means the expenditures
incurred for the payment of consultants services necessary
under parts A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project;
    (f)   the term "AGETUR consultants" means the expenditures
incurred for the payment of consultants services necessary
under Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3 and C.5 of
the Project; and
    (g)   the term "incremental operating costs for STCC" means
expenses incurred for vehicle operating expenses other than
maintenance related expenses, office supplies and maintenance
of office equipment.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for such expenditures for goods, works and services under
Page  13
contracts not exceeding $20,000 equivalent, under such terms
and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower
implement its urban development policy through (i) the
execution of priority urban works, (ii) the promotion of small
enterprises in the construction sector, and (iii) the
participation of residents, grassroots groups and NGOs in
neighborhood environmental improvement activities. The
Project's longer term objective is to assist the Borrower
develop an urban management strategy.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Transport Infrastructure Rehabilitation
1.  The carrying out of preliminary designs for road
infrastructure rehabilitation.
2.  The carrying out of engineering studies for road
infrastructure rehabilitation.
3.  Construction and/or rehabilitation of approximately five
arterials within the city of Lome.
4.  The carrying out of site-specific road safety and traffic
improvements measures.
5.  The carrying out of an urban traffic and transport study for
the city of Lome.
Part B:   Environmental and Sanitation Program
1.  The carrying out of preliminary designs for erosion control
works, landscaping works, lagoon dredging activities, and
drainage of two pilot zones.
2.  The carrying out of engineering studies for erosion control
works, landscaping works, lagoon dredging activities, and
drainage of two pilot zones.
3.  The carrying out of erosion control works, including
landscaping, of the Be lagoon banks.
4.  The partial dredging of Be lagoon to reestablish the lagoon
system's self-purification capacity.
5.  The drainage of two pilot zones in the community of Be
through the installation of deep drains and the extensive
planting of vegetation.
Part C:   Community Participation
    Support to local population's involvement and participation
in the design, implementation, management and subsequent
maintenance of activities intended to improve the sanitary,
social and economic environment.
1.  The carrying out of preliminary designs for the construction
and rehabilitation of public latrines, the construction of a
community center and the implementation of micro projects.
2.  The carrying out of engineering studies for the construction
and rehabilitation of public latrines, the construction of a
community center and the implementation of micro projects.
Page  14
3.  The construction and rehabilitation of public latrines and
the construction of a community center in the community of Be.
4.  The carrying out of a training program in community
environmental management.
5.  The carrying out of micro-projects intended to improve
living conditions and the neighborhood environment.
Part D:   Urban Management Studies
    The carrying out of studies aimed at the preparation of an
action plan intended to: (a) improve and rationalize urban
management, (b) improve resource mobilization and local
finance, and (c) strengthen the Municipality of Lome's
managerial capacity.
                                 *   *   *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1999.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid
referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide
that, when contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will be
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken
into account in the bid evaluation.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use bidding documents based on other internationally
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for civil works shall
be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$250,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
    In the procurement of works in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant
a margin of preference to domestic contractors in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of $250,000 or
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed the
equivalent of $15,353,000, may be procured under contracts
Page  15
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.  Office supplies and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $350,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
3.  Items or groups of items estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed the equivalent of $100,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations solicited from a list of at least three suppliers
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for civil works estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $250,000 each, for civil
works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of $20,000
each during the first year of implementation of the Project,
for civil works estimated to cost more than the equivalent of
$100,000 each during the second year of implementation of the
Project, for civil works estimated to cost more than the
equivalent of $150,000 each during the third year of
implementation of the Project, and for goods estimated to cost
more than the equivalent of $50,000 each, the procedures set
forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made
out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to
the making of the first payment out of the Special Account in
respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account,
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 of Schedules 5 and 6 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
Page  16
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Bank, with such modifications as shall
have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant standard
contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower
shall use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                          Implementation Program
Part A:   The CCGU
1.  The CCGU shall be responsible for the supervision of the
Project and for the implementation of the Borrower's urban
strategy. It will approve the annual work and studies programs
submitted by STCC for the implementation of the Project.
2.  The CCGU shall approve on a quarterly basis the proposed
program of micro-projects presented by CDB. CCGU shall enter
with CDB into written arrangements for the execution of micro-
projects on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association during Project's implementation.
3.  The CCGU shall be composed of the Minister of Economy and
Finance, the Minister of Civil Works and Mines, the Minister of
Plan and National and Regional Development, the Minister of
Administration Territoriale et Securite, the Mayor of Lome and
the President of CDB.
4.  The Minister of Civil Works and Mines shall serve as
chairperson of the CCGU. The STCC's secretary general shall
attend the CCGU's meetings.
5.  The CCGU shall meet at the time of the Project's start-up
and on a quarterly basis or as often as necessary thereafter to
monitor the overall progress of Project's implementation.
Part B:   The STCC
1.  The STCC shall be responsible for the Project day-to-day
management and shall assist CCGU in monitoring Project
implementation.
2.  STCC shall identify, design, justify and program the
activities and studies to be carried out under the Project on
behalf of CCGU. It will prepare annual work and studies
programs to be carried out under the Project and will submit
them for approval to CCGU.
3.  The STCC shall be established and operate within MEM and
shall be staffed with individuals whose experience and
qualifications and terms of employment are acceptable to the
Page  17
Association.
4.  The STCC shall assist the Municipality of Lome to establish
within its own structure a planning unit intended to oversee
the urban infrastructure maintenance.
Part C:   AGETUR
    The Director General of AGETUR shall be a person whose
experience, qualifications and terms of employment are
satisfactory to the Association.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account "STCC"
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (2)
(a), (4) (a) and (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for Parts A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into the Special Account "STCC" pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account "STCC" shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account "STCC" has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account "STCC" shall be
made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account "STCC" such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account "STCC",
                the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account
                "STCC" at such intervals as the Association shall
                specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account "STCC" such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of the Special Account
                "STCC" for eligible expenditures.
Page  18
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account "STCC", the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account "STCC":
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A.1, A.4, A.5,
B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to Parts A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A.1, A.4, A.5, B.1, C.1, C.4 and D of the
Project shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account "STCC" as of the date of such
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account "STCC": (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account "STCC" (or, if the Association
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account "STCC" shall be made until the Borrower has provided
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account "STCC" will
not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account "STCC".
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
Page  19
including the General Conditions.
                                SCHEDULE 6
                         Special Account "AGETUR"
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1),
(2) (b), (3) and (4) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services
required for Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and
C.5 of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into the Special Account "AGETUR"
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account "AGETUR" shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account "AGETUR" has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account "AGETUR" shall be
made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, AGETUR on
behalf of the Borrower shall furnish to the Association a
request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not
exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit in the Special Account "AGETUR" such amount or amounts
as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account
                "AGETUR", the Borrower shall furnish to the
                Association requests for deposits into the
                Special Account "AGETUR" at such intervals as the
                Association shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account "AGETUR" such amount as the
                Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
                been shown by said documents and other evidence
                to have been paid out of the Special Account
                "AGETUR" for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account "AGETUR", the Borrower shall, at such time as the
Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the
Page  20
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account "AGETUR":
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
    (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Parts A.2, A.3, B.2,
B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3, and C.5 of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions with respect to Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5,
C.2, C.3, and C.5 of the Project, shall equal the equivalent of
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories for Parts A.2, A.3, B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5, C.2, C.3,
and C.5 of the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account "AGETUR" as
of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments
for eligible expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account "AGETUR": (i) was
made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by
the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account "AGETUR" (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association
into the Special Account "AGETUR" shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account "AGETUR"
will not be required to cover further payments for eligible
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account "AGETUR".
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
