Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25470-GE
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.0 MILLION (US$15.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
FOR A
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
APRIL 10, 2003
Human Developement Sector Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 10, 2003)
Currency Unit = GEL
2.12 GEL = US$1
US$I = 2.12 GEL
FISCAL YEAR
JANUARY - DECEMBER
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                        Country Assistance Strategy
CDC                        Community Development Comrnittee
CPP                        Community Participation Procurement
CQ                         Consultant Qualification
ECA                        Europe and Central Asia Region
GOG                        Government of Georgia
GPN                        General Procurement Notice
GSIF                       Georgia Social Investment Fund
IC                         Individual Consultant
IDA                        Intemational Development Association
IS                         International Shopping
LCS                        Least Cost Selection
LG                         Local Government
LSG                        Local Self-Government
MDDP                       Municipal Development and Decentralization Project
MDF                        Municipal Development Fund
MIS                        Management Information System
NGO                        Non-Government Organization
NS                         National Shopping
PHRD                       Japan Policy and Human Resources Development Fund
PIU                        Project Implementation Unit
RFP                        Request For Proposal
SOE                        Statement of Expenditures
TOR                        Terms of Reference
USAID                      United States Agency for International Development
VAT                        Value Add Tax
Vice President:  Johannes Linn
Country Director:  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Director:  Annette Dixon
Task Manager:    Aleksandra Posarac



GEORGIA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                        2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project    3
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                        3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                     7
3. Benefits and target population                                                    7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                     9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                        13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies    14
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                              15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                 18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                      18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                         18
2. Financial                                                                        19
3. Technical                                                                        20
4. Institutional                                                                    20
5. Environmental                                                                    22
6. Social                                                                           23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                               24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                   25
2. Cntical risks                                                                    25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   26
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          27
2. Other                                                                            27
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       29
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  33
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       37
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         38
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  40
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  41
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        49
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   57
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 58
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                59
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          61
Annex 11: Organigram                                                                    63
Annex 12: Training                                                                      64
Annex 13: Microproject Typologies                                                       67
Annex 14: Microproject Cycle                                                            68
Annex 15: Project Inplementation Plan                                                   70
Annex 16: Management Information System                                                 71
Annex 17: Decentralization                                                              73
MAP(S)
IBRD 28703



GEORGIA
SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Region
ECSHD
Date: Apnl 10, 2003                                Team Leader: Aleksandra Posarac
Sector Director: Annette Dixon                     Sector(s): Other social services (100%)
Country Director: D-M Dowsett-Coirolo              Theme(s): Social risk coping (P), Civic engagement,
Project ID: P074361                                participation and community driven development (P),
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)  Social risk reduction (P)
Project Finarncing Data .                                >i-    -; - 
I Loan    [XI Credit    [ ] Grant    [] Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For LoanslCredits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 15.0 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 40
Financing:Plani(SS)      . -Surc ~.  *:      -~.   j    >e    ocal .-'- fFoin         ,--T-
Plan(US$   9i67>Stice.             7"
BORROWER                                                        5.80            0.00          5.80
IDA                                                            14.70            0.30         15.00
US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                         3.00            0.00          3.00
(USAID)
LOCAL COMMUNITIES                                               1.70            0.00          1.70
GERMANY: KREDITANSTALT FUR WIEDERAUFBAU                         4.70            0.00          4.70
(KFW)
Total:                                                         29.90            0.30         30.20
Borrower: GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Responsible agency: GEORGIA SIF
GEORGIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND
Address: 39A, Chavchavadze Ave. 11th Floor, Tbilisi, 380062 P.O. Box #112, 380079
Contact Person: Shalva Kokochashvili
Tel 995-32-23-07-79            Fax: 995-32-23-01-03           Email: skokochashvili@gsif.ge
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
2003,_   .00.4       -'. .2005  , >2OO6> ;:; OQ7.  .  -        -
Annual      0.20       3.20       5.00       6.00      0.60
Cumulative     0.20       3.40       8.40      14.40      15.00
Project implementation period: 2004 - 2008
Expected effectiveness date: 09/01/2003  Expected closing date: 01/30/2008



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The Second Georgia Social Investment Fund Project (GSIF II) has the following development
objectives: (i) participating local self-governments use enhanced management skills and a
participatory process in establishing local development plans and setting investment priorities;
(ii) participating poor communities apply for, manage and use micro-projects in a sustainable
manner; and (iii) participating poor communities benefit from improved social and economic
infrastructure and related services.
To that end, the project will place an explicit emphasis on strengthening the interaction between
local self-government and citizens in improving the quality of life in communities. The project
will introduce community development planning through a participatory process involving local
self-government and citizenry. It will finance community-level micro-projects generated by that
process. It will undertake capacity building and asset management at the local self-government
level. At the community level, it will develop community mobilization and advocacy skills to
strengthen self-reliance and self-help mechanisms.
This involves a fundamental shift in the practice of GSIF interventions from straight-forward
financing and implementation of micro-projects with limited community involvement, towards
one that aims at fully engaging the community in the local development planing and
decision-making process. This is expected to increase the likelihood that selected micro-projects
are appropriate to the local development context and reflect community preferences. It also
should help secure community ownership of micro-projects and improve their sustainability. The
approach, with its focus on local self-government and community, would moreover support the
decentralization process, which places a great deal of responsibility for local development with
local self-government authorities; it would in particular help bring about a decentralization
process that is both inclusive and transparent in relations between local self-governments and
their constituencies.
The change in emphasis from GSIF I addresses issues that were raised in the mid-term review of
GSIF I as well as in subsequent beneficiary impact assessments. The design of corresponding
instruments draws on experience and lessons learned in other similar ECA projects, as well as
such projects in other regions, and of other donors active in Georgia. They are discussed in
Section D.3.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators set out in Annex 1 reflect monitorable outcomes and impacts in
key areas of the project. They include quantitative indicators (measurable improvements and
outputs relating to micro-project completion and improved social and economic infrastructure)
and qualitative assessments of demand-driven mechanisms, service delivery, local
self-government processes and community participation. Specific areas that will be assessed
include: (i) project impact, i.e. local self-government attitudes to participatory processes and their
readiness to use them; community mobilization for the micro-project cycle; and advocacy in
participating communities; (ii) outputs relating to micro-project completions, training occasions
- 2 -



with local self-governments, communities; and (iii) process, relating to GSIF operating
efficiency.
Key performance indicators were discussed and agreed on during project preparation in
collaboration with GSIF.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 17000-GE Date of latest CAS discussion:
[The text reflects sector contents of the CAS currently under preparation]
The existing CAS did not cover FY03 and so the proposed project was not included in that CAS,
which is why this project is being presented to the Board under regular procedures; a new CAS,
which includes the proposed project, is under preparation and is expected to come to the Board in
the first quarter of FY04. The core objective of the upcoming CAS is to support the Georgian
government in its efforts to reduce vulnerability among the population. To this end, the
upcoming CAS develops a multifaceted social risk management strategy that seeks to draw on
public and private resources to improve coverage and targeting of benefits and services to the
poor and provide them with opportunities to rise out of poverty. The strategy includes improving
access to economic and social infrastructure to reduce vulnerability to income shocks, and
strengthening the poverty-orientation of social protection programs to buffer the poor from risk.
A central element of the Government's poverty reduction strategy is the decentralization of
decision-making to local and local self-government levels. Critical to successful decentralization
will be the capacity of local and local self-govemment authorities to assume in practice more
responsibility for management and administration of the development process; and for the local
citizenry to actively participate in that process.
The Government sees GSIF as having a central role to play in its social risk management
strategy, and its aims and concerns are reflected in GSIF's mandate and are taken up in GSIF II:
the project will support and complement government initiatives and the CAS objective - in
providing access to better quality social and economic infrastructure and related services in a
sustainable manner, strengthening local self-governance and building up self-reliance and
self-help capabilities at grassroots levels.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
With extensive poverty, a deteriorating social and economic infrastructure, and insufficient
formal safety nets, many households are vulnerable to risk of experiencing severe income
shocks; and they lack the resources and support systems that could mitigate such risk. Health
status and educational achievement is threatened, especially among the poor, as provision of
good health care and quality education is jeopardized by systemic inefficiencies and inadequate
resources. Economic infrastructure has deteriorated, and service provision is absent or only
intermittent in many areas. Access to assets, or asset creation opportunities, are lacking,
especially for poorer households, severely limiting income generating opportunities.
- 3 -



Poverty in Georgia is widespread with 43 percent of the population below the official poverty
line at any one time. High poverty reflects political uncertainties and steady economic decline
over much of the past decade, which improvements in economic performance in recent years
have not been able to reduce significantly. The period has seen a virtual breakdown in local
economic and social infrastructure and basic services, reflecting inadequacies in local
government and a chronic lack of public moneys, resulting in poor asset management and little or
no new capital investment. The absence of adequate infrastructure and basic services, as well as
lack of access to capital, gradually have become principal obstacles to local development efforts
and improved welfare of the population, especially poor population groups. The countryside has
been particularly hard hit, where infrastructure and services have virtually collapsed from war,
vandalism and lack of maintenance. Rural well-being is rendered even more fragile from bad
land management, which has made farmers particularly vulnerable to weather conditions. With
agriculture providing employment for over half the population and often the only source of
income for many rural communities, a functioning rural environment and an economic
infrastructure that reduce fluctuations in output and rural family incomes, is essential for coming
to grips with poverty.
Government strategy. The Government is in the process of developing a comprehensive long
term poverty reduction strategy aimed at reversing the decline in welfare among the population
and reducing vulnerability of households to risks rising from both income and non-income
shocks. An I-PRSP for Georgia was discussed by the Board in December 2000, and a PRSP
status report was sent to the Board in July 2002.
A central element of Government strategy is decentralization of economic management to local
and local self-government levels and promotion of community-driven development through a
participatory process that actively involves citizens and communities in local level
decision-making. Major achievements so far include elections of local governments, delineation
of responsibilities among different government levels (central, regional, local) and introduction
of greater fiscal accountability, and the establishment of GSIF as an important vehicle for
improving local and community-level social and economic infrastructure.   However,
decentralization faces tremendous challenges: a still incomplete and in may aspects inadequate
legal and fiscal framework for decentralization; nonexistent or weak managerial and
administrative capacities; few resources; and issues of trust between local government and its
constituents. In particular, local self-governments are being transferred a broad range of
responsibilities - provision of local utility services, budget planning and revenue management -
all of them tasks that they will be hard-pressed to master.
Improving the population's access to basic social and economic infrastructure, particularly in
poorer areas, is a high priority. The emphasis on local self-government and community
mobilization aims at facilitating the meeting of critical smaller-scale infrastructure needs at local
levels - primarily school and health facilities rehabilitation, small hydropower schemes to
provide electricity, drinking water and sanitation rehabilitation, irrigation and road rehabilitation.
- 4 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
GSIF plays a central role in the Government's attempts to reverse the decline in basic
infrastructure and services, promote participatory decentralization, and revitalize the countryside.
It is expected to help decrease economic vulnerability among the population, especially outside
the big cities, and help mobilize public and private resources and initiatives for comnmon
development objectives at local levels.
*   GSIF investments in basic economic infrastructure (erosion control, irrigation schemes,
village access roads) should reduce vulnerability to weather conditions, stabilize incomes and
promote income generation at community levels. Investment in water supply and sanitation
and energy generating and distribution would contribute to improving the quality of life in
poor communities. Investments in basic social infrastructure and services, including in
particular the rehabilitation and equipping of education facilities, and rehabilitation of
community level health facilities, should enhance their future income opportunities and
reduce the inter-generational transmission of poverty.
*   Vulnerability should be further reduced by GSIF providing some critically needed capacity
building at local self-government and community levels. That should strengthen local
decision-making and implementation capacity, and strengthen interaction between local
self-government and citizenry, improve problem solving and lead to improved govemance
and democratic decision-making. In turn, it should result in more active communities and
local self-governments, more capable of mobilizing resources - public and private - and in
their better targeting at priorities that have broad public support. Ultimately, it should result
in more resilient communities that are less vulnerable to risk.
GSIF II would complement work undertaken under a number of other Bank projects underway or
being developed - water, rural infrastructure, health and education, municipal development and
decentralization, and social protection. All GSIF interventions in essential services areas will be
designed to be consistent with sectoral strategies and service standards. In the case of the second
Municipal Development and Decentralization Project, the two projects are designed to be
complementary: the MDDP is expected to focus on improving performance at local government
levels - districts and large cities - while GSIF will support local self-government units in areas
where it is financing micro-projects. The proposed Social Protection Project, which is scheduled
for FY04, aims at strengthening income transfer programs and social care services, including in
particular increasing the efficiency of the poverty benefit, thus helping poor families cope with
continued income insecurity. GSIF in turn generates opportunity by creating the economic and
social infrastructure that enables communities to improve their living standards.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The GSIF II project will have three components: (a) capacity building at local community and
self-government levels, relating to the participatory planning process, and institutional
strengthening of local self-governments through training in management and administrative
- 5-



skills; (b) identification, development and implementation of some 300 community-based
micro-projects; and (c) project management. Annex 2 provides a project description and Annex
3 a detailed breakdown of costs.
nlhdicative          Bank-   - % of
Costs  |. %of - . inancing
T ;'b'>      e            '     ^   ~4 r7-A,;  > 6 s 1 - o ',, ~~'t~;-  ( ,0US$M)  Total  (USWM)  financing
1. Capacity building(a)                           4.00     13.2      1.00      6.7
a. community-level
b. local self-government level
2. Micro-projects                                22.60     74.8     11.70     78.0
3. Project management(b)                          3.60      11.9     2.30     15.3
a. investment costs
b. incremental recurrent costs
Total Project Costs  30.20  100.0    15.00    100.0
Total Financing Required  30.20    100.0    15.00     100.0
(a) Capacity building costs: Community level costs are estimated at US$ 3.2 million; local self-government level
costs are estimated at US$ 0.8 million
(b) Project management costs: Investment costs are estimated at US$ 0.7 million; incremental recurrent costs are
estirnated at US$ 2.9 million
The total cost of the project is estimated at US$ 30.2 million, of which IDA would finance
US$15.0 million. An amount of US$ 4.7 million equivalent would be provided by the German
Government; of which US$ 4.4 million equivalent would be earmarked for micro-projects in the
six districts of the Borjomi-Kharagauli area in the southern part of Georgia, with the remainder
(US$ 0.3 million) being applied to incremental operating costs of GSIF (the Project
Implementation Unit). A partnership arrangement with USAID, described below, is expected to
finance US$ 3.0 million of the capacity building component. Additional project funding would
be provided by communities through direct contributions to micro-project costs (an estimated
US$ 1.7 million). The Government of Georgia would contribute US$ 5.8 million, covering part
of incremental recurrent costs (US$ 0.9 million) and project taxes (US$ 4.9 million). Total
incremental recurrent costs are US$ 2.9 million, or 9.6 percent of project costs.
USAID intends to enter into a partnership agreement to finance the implementation of the
capacity building component at community and local self-government levels. The partnership
agreement will involve two USAID programs currently underway in Georgia: (i) the Georgia
Community Mobilization Initiative (GCMI) and (ii) the Georgia Local Government Reform
Initiative (GLGRI). Currently, CARE and Mercy Corps are implementing the USAID program
Georgia Community Mobilization Initiative. The program finances rehabilitation of small scale
economic and social infrastructure in poor communities through an intensive community
mobilization effort, which also includes the development of advocacy skills. Thus, a partnership
arrangement with USAID will bring extensive and successful community mobilization and
advocacy experience to GSIF II. Urban Institute is one of the key implementing agencies of the
USAID financed program Local Government Reform Initiative. It is implementing that initiative
in collaboration with the Georgian Institute for Public Administration and the Presidential
Service for Regional Policy and Govemance.
- 6 -



Under the Georgia Community Mobilization Initiative, GSIF would collaborate with USAID in
assisting communities and self-governments to draw up participatory local development plans
and provide training in micro-project implementation, community mobilization and advocacy
skiiis. Under the Local Government Reform Initiative, GSIF and USAID would collaborate in
providing local self-governments management training. Field-level implementation would be
undertaken by the NGOs and other organizations implementing the GCMI and GLGRI. It is
expected that partners would cover the full cost of capacity building. A framework agreement
would be established between the two USAID initiativ_s and GSIF.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support key Government public policy and institutional reforms by providing a
mechanism to (a) reach the poor more effectively; (b) mitigate the deterioration of basic
economic and social infrastructure; and (c) supporting the Government's decentralization policy
by (i) building institutional capacity in participating local self-governnents; and (ii) engaging
local self-governments and communities in an interactive and mutually supportive partnership for
development.
3. Benefits and target population:
Among participating communities, the main benefits of the project will be: (a) better community
economic and social infrastructure resulting from the implementation of an estimated 300
micro-projects; (b) increased ownership of and accountability for such infrastructure; (c)
increased participation in local decision-making; (d) increased self-reliance and self-help
capabilities. At the local self-government level, (a) enhanced capacity to apply and benefit from a
participatory process in establishing local priorities and implementing local development plans,
and (b) better local administration in line with increased responsibilities under decentralization.
At the national level, promoting the Government's decentralization program by the application of
enhanced management skills at self-government levels and introduction of local and community
partnerships in poverty alleviation and economic development.
While the project would be nationwide in scope, the primary target group will be poor
communities in peri-urban areas, rural towns and villages.  Secondary targets are local
self-government authorities, who will benefit from training in management skills, administration
and participatory community action.
Targeting methodology:
While there is broad agreement with the Government on the need for selectivity, the sensitivity of
limiting funds to a few chosen regions or distncts, and excluding others, has been emphasized by
Government. It was therefore agreed that the project would be nationwide in scope, with priority
being given to poorer communities in peri-urban areas, rural towns and villages. It was also
agreed to initially, on a notional basis, limit IDA funds available to any district over the life of
the project to US$ 160,000 and not allow more than five projects within that limit. The
allocation would be reviewed and revised after the first year. The districts eligible for KfW
funds would not be eligible for IDA funds.
- 7 -



At start-up, GSIF will focus on communities in peri-urban areas, rural towns and villages in six
of the poorest districts in each of its two Areas of Operation (see Section 4 below) that do not
include KfW districts (in that Area, it is expected that GSIF will give priority to KfW-targeted
districts). The determination of those initial districts will be done by GSIF and implementing
partners on the basis of jointly developed criteria. (The term "implementing partners" indicates
the NGOs or other agencies carrying out capacity building activities and financed under the
partnership agreement with USAID.)  This list would be a condition of effectiveness.
Subsequently, GSIF would operate on a national scale, while continuing to give priority to poor
communities in peri-urban areas, rural towns and villages. In the agreed districts, GSIF staff
will, in collaboration with the implementing partners undertake a needs-based ranking of local
self-government units using a transparent two-stage ranking process.  Initially all local
self-government units within the district will be ranked by means of key informants representing
each local self-government unit and cross-checked with available statistical data. Following that
ranking, GSIF staff will in collaboration with the implementing partners undertake a rapid needs
assessment of at least one third, but not less than three, of the local self-governments with the
lowest rankings. On the basis of the rapid needs assessment, the three poorest self-governments
will be selected for community mobilization and institution building support.
Micro-project identification occurs according to the following process:
1. a community development plan is elaborated by each of the communities in the local
self-government with implementing partner facilitation (and GSIF monitoring) using
participatory techniques; (in a few cases, where the partnership arrangement with USAID
may not be applied, GSIF will contract out the task to qualified NGOs, firms or individuals);
2. community plans are then consolidated in a participatory way at the local self-government
level, involving full consultation with the communities and further facilitation by the
implementing partners;
3. micro-projects proposed for financing are drawn from such plans. In cases where local
self-governnents are assessed by GSIF and implementing partners as being insufficiently
established, plans will not be consolidated and proposals will be drawn from community
development plans.
A set of criteria for use in the key informant process and needs assessments has been developed
by GSIF, based on its previous experience, experience of NGOs and donors active in community
mobilization in Georgia, and recent beneficiary impact assessments. Mainly, readily available
socioeconomic indicators will be used, such as: (i) access to basic social and economic
infrastructure; (ii) income levels and economic activity; (iii) unemployment; (iv) extent of
Government and donor intervention; (v) lack of natural assets; (vi) location - distance from the
district center, altitude; and (vii) other qualitative indicators that reflect the level of organization
and participation in the communities. Detailed procedures and criteria will be included in the
Operating Manual. It is expected that the two-stage procedure to targeting will allow resources
to be channeled to the neediest communities. Criteria will be further developed and refined by
GSIF prior to and during project implementation.
- 8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
I. Implementing entity and institutional structure of GSIF II. The project will be
implemented by GSIF, which was established under Decree No. 527 of the President of Georgia,
dated August 16, 1996, and revised by Decree No. 105, dated March 28, 2003. GSIF will
administer project operations as an autonomous public entity according to operating guidelines
and procedures set out in the project's Operating Manual. GSIF will recruit office staff and
technical consultants according to qualifications and selection criteria set out in its Financial and
Administrative Manuals. GSIF will have the authority to enter into consultants' service, civil
works and equipment contracts and manage the project's financial accounts.
While the project will benefit from some of the institutional and implementation arrangements
that were put into place by GSIF I, the organization that was in charge of implementing GS1F I
has been extensively restructured to reflect the shift in emphasis from micro-project financing to
community development. The new structure will allow a more integrated and cost effective
approach to local development. In particular, the introduction of decentralized area management
and task teams is expected to enhance capacity building at local levels and contribute to
increased micro-project quality. Moreover, the increased emphasis on community development
notwithstanding, it is also expected to significantly shorten the micro-project cycle from its
average of some 560 days in GSIF I to some 300 to 350 days.
The main features of the new organization are as follows (see also the Organizational Chart in
Annex 11):
* An Executive Board approves GSIF policies and procedures, annual budgets and work plans,
and quarterly and annual reports. The Executive Board is composed of eight members,
including the chairman, who is elected from among the members for one year. Five members
are senior government representatives and three, including two NGO representatives, are
from the private sector.
* GSIF is headed by an Executive Director, appointed by the President of Georgia. GSIF
comprises five departments: three operational area departments, a finance and administration
department and an inforrnation systems department. Each area department covers a defined
geographic area of the country. An area department consists of an area manager and three
task teams. In addition to area management, each area manager has technical oversight
responsibility in his or her field of competence - one in procurement, one in engineering and
one in community development. Each task team consists of three community development
specialist, two of which have a background and experience in engineering and one in social
sciences. Task teams, in collaboration with implementing partners, manage the local
self-government and community selection (targeting) and community mobilization processes,
micro-project design and implementation, and institutional strengthening of local
self-governments. Micro-project approval for projects less than US$ 30,000 equivalent
would be delegated to area managers; micro-projects above US$ 30,000 would be approved
by the Executive Director in consultation with the task team and respective area manager; and
exceptionally large micro-projects (over US$ 75,000) would be approved by the Board. Any
changes in the appointment of or terms of employment of the Executive Director,
-9-



Deputy Executive Director, Area Managers and the Department Heads, will be subject
to prior Bank approval.
Operating procedures will change to reflect the emphasis placed on community mobilization and
institution building of local self-government throughout the micro-project cycle.
O They will begin with participatory community-level development planning involving the
whole community (facilitated by implementing partners in collaboration with GSIF task
teams); at this point in time, a community development committee (CDC) is set up to
manage the community planning and micro-project development and implementation
processes. Throughout the micro-project cycle, training and support will be provided by
GSIF and its implementing partners to the CDCs in micro-project cycle management and
maintenance of the finished product;
o The community development plans should lead to a consolidated development plan for
the local self-government, done in full consultation between the communities and the
local self-government, and facilitated by the implementing partners. Again, the process
would be in collaboration with GSIF. The local self-government development plan sets
out investment priorities in the local self-government.
o On the basis of the local self-government development plan and in consultation with
member communities and citizenry, a micro-project proposal, or proposals, for GSIF
financing is defined and submitted to GSIF for appraisal; criteria for appraisal are defined
in the Operating Manual. In cases where local self-governments are assessed by GSIF
and implementing partners as being insufficiently established, plans will not be
consolidated and proposals will be drawn from community development plans.
o At the same time, training in community advocacy skills is provided to all communities
in the local self-government by the implementing partners. Training in institutional
development will be provided to the local self-government in the application of laws
governing local self-government activities, budgeting and accounting, and asset
management. This training will also be provided by implementing partners. Other local
self-governments in the district can participate in that training as well.
While all departments in GSIF will be manned with skilled professionals, many of them drawn
from the previous organization that implemented GSIF 1, they will need intensive training in the
new approaches. A detailed staff training program has been developed and is set out in Annex
12. It will be implemented prior to project start-up.
II. Implementation arrangements. The project will be implemented over a period of three
years and seven months (September 2003 to March 2007) in accordance with the Project
Implementation Plan provided in Annex 15. Implementation arrangements under the GSIF II
project will be governed by the guidelines and procedures set out in an Operating Manual. The
Operating Manual will be approved by GSIF's Board and adopted as a legal document. The
development of the Operating Manual satisfactory to the Bank and its approval by the
GSIF Board is a condition of effectiveness. Any changes in the procedures set forth in the
Operating Manual will be subject to the Bank's approval prior to being implemented. The
- 10-



Operating Manual defines processes, procedures, roles and responsibilities in project and
micro-project implementation, it describes eligible micro-project typologies and key appraisal
cnteria for micro-projects; and it sets out the critena for selection of communities for GSIF
interventions. A separate manual covers financial and administrative procedures. Handbooks on
technical norms and standards for types of works financed by GSIF, procurement and
environmental procedures have also been prepared.
A comprehensive, computerized information system (see MIS description in Annex 16) will
provide GSIF with up-to-date information on its operational activities and the status of
micro-project implementation. It will be the major tool for tracking performance, identifying
bottlenecks, measuring cost effectiveness and feeding the decision making process. For that
purpose, it will generate process, output and impact indicators for the project as a whole, and for
the various stages involved in community and micro-project development. It will be closely
integrated with the GSIF accounting system. MIS-generated reports will be an integral part of
the reports submitted to the GSIF Board and to donors for review.
The key institutions in GSIF II implementation, and their respective roles, are as follows:
*   Project Implementation Unit: The PIU (also referred to as GSIF) is responsible for the
overall management and administration of the GSIF II project.  Its structure and
implementation responsibilities were summarized above.
*   Local self-governments.  Under the project, identification, prioritization of needs and
consensus building on small-scale investment priorities (community development plans) will
be undertaken first at the community level and then consolidated at the local self-government
level in a participatory way. Micro-projects will be proposed to GSIF from such plans. For
micro-project implementation, the local self-government council will be represented on the
community development committee (see below).     In appropriate instances, local
self-governments will also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of the facility
rehabilitated or renovated under the micro-project, either singly or jointly with the benefiting
community.
*   Community development committees.    Community development committees will be
legally responsible for carrying out GSIF-financed micro-projects under a framework
agreement with GSIF. They will be responsible for micro-project design, collection of local
contributions, procurement, implementation and reporting to the community on progress of
the micro-project. They may also be responsible for the operation and maintenance of
facilities, either at the village level, or in collaboration with the local self-government
authority in instances where the latter does not take over full responsibility of asset
management.   The composition of the village committee is meant to strengthen the
interaction between local self-government authorities and community members: while
community development committees will be headed by a community member and their
membership mainly drawn from the community, they will also include a representative of the
local self-government.  In cases where several communities are benefiting from  a
GSIF-financed micro-project, a joint community development committee will be established
- 11 -



with representatives from each concerned community, as well as the local self-government.
o   USAI[D-funded nongovernmental organizations.  On the basis of the partnership
arrangement with USAID, GSIF will draw on the services of the USAID-funded NGOs to
undertake all field-level community development - community development planning as well
as advocacy - through the full micro-project cycle, including the training of local NGOs. The
partnership will also include institution-building for local self-government entities, including
strengthening local NGOs in training for institution-building at local self-government levels.
O   Other nongovernmental organizations, firms and individuals. GSIF will draw on other
(pre-qualified) NGOs, firms and individuals in the few instances where USAID-funded NGO
support will not be available for local self-government and community development; and for
special studies on the impact of GSIF interventions.
o   Private contractors and design firms.  Private local contractors will compete for
micro-project contracts for design and rehabilitation works. On larger works, design firms
will be hired on a competitive basis to prepare designs and supervise implementation of
works. Contractors will also be supervised by the community development committees and
local on-site supervisors. Contractors will be paid directly by GSIF based on certified
statements and accomplished works that meet quality standards. All design firms will be
pre-qualified.
Procurement:  Project activities, estimated costs, procurement methods and prior review
thresholds are outlined in Annex 6(A) of the PAD. A procurement capacity assessment was
undertaken during project preparation, and a procurement action plan was developed - see Annex
6(A) - to strengthen procurement capacity in GSIF. That plan has been implemented. The GSIF
will have overall responsibility for the management of procurement activities under the project.
For the implementation of micro-projects, it will provide technical assistance to Community
Development Committees (CDC) in undertaking procurement. In communities, procurement of
goods, works and services is the primary responsibility of the CDCs. For each micro-project,
GSIF will enter into a Framework Agreement with the CDC and the procurement procedures will
be agreed. The Framework Agreement will specify, inter alia, the terms and conditions under
which the funds may be used. The CDCs will operate as employers and will be in charge of
taking all steps and decision necessary for procurement in relation to the micro-projects. The
GSIF will contract out micro-projects through the CDCs to individuals, private contractors, and
community based organizations following procedures detailed in the OM and Framework
Agreement.  Procurement of Micro-projects will be based on Community Participation
Procurement (CPP) as described under 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. The relevant
procurement procedures include: National Competitive Bidding and Minor Works procedures.
The procedures would require local advertisement and public bid opening in line with the sample
bidding documents and standard contract forms specifically developed for community
application under micro-projects. Strict guidelines would be included in the bidding documents
regarding the necessary prerequisites for participation by a bidder.  Nongovernmental
organizations, local contractors and other community-based organizations, registered according
to legislation, will be allowed to bid. Procurement details are set out in a Procurement Handbook
- 12 -



that was developed by the GSIF staff and was reviewed by the PAS.
Disbursement:  Disbursement arrangements will be based on traditional methods (e.g.,
replenishment of the Special Account based on full documentation and/or Statement of
Expenses, direct payments and Special Commitments). GSIF will open and maintain a Special
Account for IDA disbursement purposes.  Additional accounts will be opened for: the
Government's counterpart contribution; the communities' co-financing of micro-projects; and
co-financiers. These accounts will be autonomous and will be audited annually by an accredited
auditing firm. Detailed disbursement arrangements are outlined in Annex 6.
Funds flow: Project funds will flow from (i) the Bank, either via a single Special Account which
will be replenished on the basis of withdrawal applications, or by direct payment on the basis of
direct payment withdrawal applications, (ii) other donors (KfW), via a separate Special Account
operating like IDA Special Account, (iii) local communities, via a separate (single) communities'
contributions account opened in a local commercial bank, same bank where IDA Special
Account will be opened, (iv) the Government, from the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance via
Government of Georgia co-financing account opened in a local commercial bank, same bank
where IDA Special Account will be opened, on the basis of payment requests of GSIF. Funds
flow diagram is provided in Annex 6(B).
Monitoring and evaluation: Project monitoring activities will be the responsibility of GSIF,
contracting out these functions when appropriate. Monitoring activities under the project will
entail a process for reviewing continuously and systematically different aspects of project
implementation. The objectives of the monitoring and evaluation activities would be to: (a)
ensure that procedures carried out for implementing micro-projects, executing contracts and
managing project accounts are in compliance with the Operating Manual; (b) provide
information regularly on progress toward achieving desirable results and facilitating reporting to
the Board, the Government and donors; (c) provide information on project performance in terms
of social development outcomes, including community mobilization and institution building for
local self-governments; (d) alert managers to actual or potential problems in implementation so
that adjustments can be made; (e) determine how the project is affecting the intended
beneficiaries; and (f) provide a vehicle whereby GSIF could reflect and improve on their
performance.  The monitoring and evaluation framework of GSIF would comprise: (i)
micro-project monitoring by GSIF staff and community development committees; (ii) the
management information system: (iii) annual technical, procurement and audit reviews; (iv)
annual beneficiary impact assessments; (v) regular dissemination seminars and workshops with
beneficiaries on monitoring and evaluation outcomes; (v) Bank supervision missions carried out
quarterly until the mid-term review scheduled for July, 2005; and (vi) quarterly and annual
progress reports to be prepared by GSIF and submitted to the Bank.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The following project alternatives have been considered: (a) replacing support for GSIF by
- 13-



relying essentially on sector investment operations; (b) continuing "business as usual": i.e.
rehabilitating socioeconomic infrastructure with a modicum of community participation; and (c)
continuing the rehabilitation of socioeconomic infrastructure, while emphasizing community
participation and local self-government and community collaboration ("community
development").
a. Relying on sector investment operations or a social fund. While it is expected that broad
sector-specific operations will continue to serve an important role in Georgia's overall
development strategy, GSIF is seen by the Government as having a crucial complementary
function in that it is able to (i) directly and immediately address a broad menu of service
needs at the grassroots level; targeting vulnerable communities with interventions that can
alleviate economic and environmental shocks, as well as raise incomes; and (ii) promote its
decentralization policy.  Consequently, GSIF has become a central element in the
Government's poverty reduction strategy. The team agrees with this view - sector authorities
will play the leading role in setting policies, drawing up national strategies and implementing
larger programs and projects; GSIF will serve as the link to service provision at local and
community levels.
b. "Business as usual" or community ownership. The weakest element of GSIF I was the
relatively limited emphasis on community participation in micro-project development and
implementation. In part, this is reflected in reluctance of communities to come up with the
community contribution; it has raised concerns about the sustainability of micro-projects; and
in many instances it has led to the capture of decision-making in micro-project selection by
local authorities and elites and the implementation of oversized projects. Both GSIF and the
project team believe that a stronger grass-roots level demand-driven emphasis is preferable -
it is better in identifying priorities, in mobilizing local and community resources, and
ensuring community ownership and micro-project sustainability.
c. Community development. In view of Government's commitment to decentralization and local
development, and the parallel need to ensure that citizens meaningfully participate in
managing the local development process, an approach that focuses on mobilizing
communities; and strengthening local decision making and implementation capacities, seems
most appropriate and is likely to bring the most value added for the resources spent.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
___             -    ..           r                  L- Latest Supervisio''
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ W 4 , : , . >t-  '  _'_ _ _ _ _ _  -.rjwf ,,.  .  ; n I-f
- - I  -.--~--*-*- -* --  Bank~financed peojedts'only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                             Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Need for stronger management and  Municipal Development and   S            S
accountability of local authorities as  Decentralization Project
government organization is
decentralized
Absence of adequate socioeconomic  Georgia Social Investment  S            S
infrastructure in poor communities  Fund I
- 14 -



Public infrastructure and service                               S            S
provision constraints           Road Project
Irrigation and Drainage         S            S
Community Dev. APL
Tbilisi Water and Sanitation
Project (FY04)
Rural Development Project
(FY05)
Municipal Water Project
(FY05)
Need for stronger management and  Second Municipal              S            S
accountability of local authorities as  Development and
government organization is      Decentralization (FY03)
decentralized
Inadequate social risk management  Social Protection Reform
structures                      Proj ect(FY04)
Weak health financing and inadequate Health 2 (FY04)
primary health care
Need to improve learning outcomes of Education APL (FYOI)       S             S
pnmary and secondary students
Other development agencies
USAID                           Georgia Community
Mobilization Initiative
Local Government Reform                   -
Initiative
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
A. Lessons learned from GSIF I: The design of GSIF H has drawn extensively on experience
under the first project, including the findings of World Bank supervision missions, beneficiary
assessments conducted by GSIF staff and extemal consultants, an in-depth technical assessment
of the project during the mid-term review and findings during project preparation. The following
are major lessons from GSIF I that have been taken into consideration in preparing GSIF II:
1. Sustainability. Sustainable community development requires engagement by community
members as well as local governments (participation), the services provided by outside agencies
have to be relevant, the output has to be satisfactory, and adequate operations and maintenance
arrangements need to be in place.
*   Community participation requires intensive interaction between GSIF, the participating
community and the local authority before, during and for some time after project
implementation. The interaction has to be relevant to the service needs - skills generation in
-15 -



planning, management, operation, maintenance - as perceived by the community. This was
often not the case in GSIF 1, where priority was placed on physical implementation and less
effort went into ensuring community engagement. GSIF II will emphasize community
mobilization and capacity building, and the demand-driven nature of micro-projects; and
participatory approaches for local self-governments; it will pay more attention to operations
and maintenance arrangements to ensure that necessary skills and resources are available, and
preventive maintenance is undertaken appropriately. Both are joint responsibilities of
beneficiary communities and local self-government authorities and underline the need for
active involvement of both communities and local self-government. GSIF I will pay
particular attention to enhancing community development in both constituencies.
O In addition to the project being a recognized priority by the community, the micro-project has
to be designed to correspond to the needs of the community. Under GSIF I, this was not
always the case, at times resulting in facilities that were much too large in terms of
community need, and unaffordable both in terms of community participation and subsequent
operations and maintenance. Under GSIF II, micro-project proposals will be addressed
through the participatory community planning process and GSIF will during appraisal take
into account the capacity of the community to absorb them, i.e. scale and affordability of a
micro-project to the community.  Altemative approaches to a micro-project will be
considered, even altemative micro-projects that can be better absorbed by the community.
o GSIF I has been only partially able to ensure that micro-projects are consistent with sector
strategies and priorities, national, municipal and local government reform programs, and
programs carried out by NGOs and donor agencies. Under GSIF 11, procedures will be
strengthened for coordinating GSIF interventions with line ministries, NGOs, donor agencies
and Bank Project management units. The partnership arrangement with USAID will also
significantly contribute to avoid inconsistency between GSIF investments and other public
and private initiatives.
2. Micro-project size. Under GSIF I, the average size of micro-projects was a relatively high
US$ 50,000 equivalent. This has proven awkward for a number of reasons:
o In many instances poor communities find it difficult to mobilize the necessary counterpart
resources for larger projects;
o Larger projects that exceed the capabilities of poor communities may often be inappropriate
and not cost-effective for the community;
o Local authorities may unduly influence the selection process in the direction of larger urban
projects and in support of official priorities which do not necessarily focus on poverty;
o In some instances, undertaking large projects may result in underfunded and/or partially
completed projects.
Under GSIF H it is expected that average project size will go down: the focus on local
- 16 -



self-government and community planmng is likely to reduce the pressures of vested interests for
larger "showcase" or politically motivated micro-projects; community-level facilitation should
reinforce this; and more ngorous appraisal criteria focusing on absorptive capacity, stricter
beneficiary definition and participation, and need, are likely to result in less unwieldy
micro-projects.
3. Counterpart funds. Difficulties to mobilize community contributions and shortages of
government funds, essentially to meet tax requirements, adversely affected performance under
GSIF 1. Community contributions may have suffered both from a lack of ownership of projects
by the community and the often excessive size of projects. In part, this caused GSIF in many
instances to focus on better-off communities that could more easily afford to contribute to
micro-project costs. These issues will be addressed under the new project - by means of
strengthening ownership (see sustainability above), by attempting to reduce project size and
designing projects that better correspond to current and future community needs, and that are
technically sound. Moreover, the community counterpart contribution will be reduced to 10
percent of micro-project costs net of taxes (that is 8 percent of micro-project costs inclusive of
taxes). The Government's precarious financial situation is likely to continue to influence
performance under GSIF II, and it may slow down the pace of implementation of the project. It
is one of the main project risks.
4. . Poverty targeting. Under GSIF I, a combination of micro-project size and counterpart
funding requirements may have resulted in a selection bias towards wealthier communities.
Under GSIF II, targeting peri-urban areas, small towns and villages, rather than large urban areas;
emphasizing smaller, more manageable projects that are more approprnately calibrated to the
community; and a more intense focus by GSIF in seeking affordable and sustainable solutions,
should help reduce selection bias.
5. The GSIF Executive Board. Under GSIF I, the Executive Board played a limited role in
guiding GSIF's activities. Nonetheless, a Fund Board provides formal links to government
authorities, sets policy directions, guards against misuse and misallocation of funds and more
generally reflects a national commitment to poverty reduction that involves both public
authorities and civil society. For GSIF I, the Board has been restructured to make it pro-active.
The Board will take a more active role in the micro-project process, receiving regular reports on
micro-projects and approving exceptionally large micro-projects (over US$ 75,000). In addition,
the Board chairmanship will be only annual, private sector representation, including NGOs, will
be more prominent, a quorum will be required for decision-making, and formal minutes will be
issued for each meeting. While apparently modest, these measures should go far in activating the
Board and involving it more closely in GSIF's activities.
B. Lessons drawn from other experiences. Project design also draws on the experience of
other social fund-type operations in the ECA Region, as well as relevant experiences of donors
active in Georgia. Ongoing SIF projects in Armenia, Moldova and Ukraine has helped guide the
design for building ownership, advocacy and capacity at the community level, as well as
administrative capacity and participatory approaches at local self-government levels.  The
Armenia SIF, which is in its second phase, has provided valuable experience in capacity building
- 17-



and sustainability: at the local self-government level in institutional strengthening aiming at
better financial and asset management, and participatory planning; and at the community level in
community mobilization and advocacy. It has also provided guidance in how to improve the
quality of micro-project design (quality of works); on improving the GSIF management
information system; and in developing strong monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. The
Moldova project has provided valuable insights into innovative approaches to community
mobilization and participatory approaches for project ownership and community-level capacity
building, and it's experience with setting up partnership arrangements with institutions that share
similar objectives as GSIF in order to draw on synergies and achie-e a greater impact at the local
level, have been examined for introduction into GSIF. The Ukraine project has informed project
design in a number of areas: the potential for developing partnership arrangements between
GSIF, various government levels, communities and NGOs; public information and awareness
campaign design; and monitoring and evaluation.  Project design has also drawn on the
experience from Latin American social funds, in particular with regard to community oriented
actions and fund organization.
Donor activities, especially those of NGOs, have already demonstrated that participatory and
demand-driven approaches common to social funds can work in Georgia, and their experience
also has been sought in developing the project. This is especially the case in seeking approaches
that bring local self-government and communities together in a participatory manner to promote
community development. CARE and Mercy Corps, in particular, have extensive experience in
this area in Georgia.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
GSIF is a featured element of the Government's poverty reduction strategy, and the Government
has requested a follow-up to the first project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
IDA brings to bear its global experience in helping design and implement social fund operations
that strengthen community action and local govemance. Specifically, the value added of Bank
support will be: (a) greater stakeholder participation at the local level through decentralization of
activities, with clear roles for local self-government and communities in the preparation, design,
implementation, and maintenance of micro-projects; (b) capacity building at the local level
focusing on community participation, strengthening of local self-government in decentralized
management and financing systems, greater transparency in local self-govemment actions and
increased interaction between local self-govemment authorities and community members; (c)
enhanced micro-project quality through better technical design, strict adherence to specifications,
improved procurement procedures, and better supervision; (d) poverty targeting based on an
improved two-stage process for project selection; and (e) ensuring cost effectiveness in the use of
project funds by closer monitoring through the MIS, and a cost accounting system.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
- 18-



) Cost benefit   NPV=USS million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
* Cost effectiveness
C) Other (specify)
Due to the nature of the project, where the list of micro-projects to be financed cannot be known
up front, it is not feasible to calculate an ERR. Consequently, NPV and ERR are not applicable
to the project. Cost-effectiveness analyses are more appropriate, but these could be conducted
only ex-post, after the mid-term review and project completion stages. Such analyses would
include: the project rationale within the broader context of the Government's pnorities and the
Bank's Country Assistance Strategy; comparisons with other projects under traditional
government or NGO programs; cost per micro-project; and cost effectiveness indicators for each
type micro-project and service completed (e.g., cost per unit of pipeline, or cost per square foot
of school rehabilitation or construction). In the meantime, during project implementation, GSIF
will carry out a simple cost-effectiveness analysis for each micro-project proposal presented by
the communities. The analysis will be based on viable altematives, least-cost solutions, unit cost
estimates from private construction firms, specific circumstances of the community, estimated
benefits from the project, number of beneficiaries, and other relevant factors at the micro level.
The Operating Manual will provide guidelines for carrying out such analyses.
The carrying out of a full scale cost-effectiveness analysis will be discussed during the mid-term
review of the project, based on the progress in implementing micro-projects. Such an analysis
will include: (i) the project rationale within the broader economic context of the Government's
economic priorities as well as the Bank's country assistance strategy; (ii) effective targeting of
project funds to poor areas; and (iii) cost-effectiveness in the use of funds compared to those of
government programs or NGO sponsored projects. At a detailed level, such an analysis will
include: (a) direct costs covering labor, matenals, and service costs at site; (b) overhead costs,
which are essentially GSIF office costs; (c) and cost-effectiveness indicators. The data for this
analysis will be generated by the MIS. The analysis will also include an assessment of project
impact as perceived by the populations benefitting from GSIF support.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=USS million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
No financial analysis will be carried out as this is a non-revenue generating project. However,
some financial management aspects should be taken into account at the micro-project level:
Userfees and cost recovery. In the case of micro-projects such as water projects, irrigation or
solid waste disposal projects, GSIF will assist in the development of cost recovery plans to
ensure that beneficiaries contribute to cost recovery. Guidance will be provided by GSIF on how
fees could be channelled for operation and maintenance of facilities constructed. GSIF will
emphasize the importance of cost recovery in their dialogue with potential beneficiaries. To this
end, they will direct their efforts in raising the awareness of beneficiaries on the importance of
paying for services obtained, and on use of such funds for operation and maintenance to ensure
the sustainability of services provided.
Community contributions. Communities would be required to finance 10 percent of total
micro-project costs (net of taxes). The contribution would be in cash and/or kind. Community
-19-



contributions play an important role for the following reasons: (i) they offer some assurance that
the micro-project addresses a priority need of the community and demonstrates its commitment
to the micro-project in financial terms; and (ii) it helps maintain the micro-project at a size that
the community can afford.
Fiscal Impact.
The impact of the project on government finances would include the Government counterpart
contribution, incremental taxes (VAT and local taxes), social security payments and, in some
instances, operating and maintenance costs. Over the life of the project, the Government is expected
to contribute a total of US$ 5.8 million.
3. Technical:
GSIF will support the financing of well defined, technically sound and cost effective
micro-projects. In doing so, it will address key technical issues concerning quality of works
which will be enhanced by: (i) technical norms and standards for each type of micro-project
conforming to national norms and standards; (ii) enforcement of such norms and standards
through technical designs, effective procurement procedures, and systematic project supervision
at the local level focusing on contractor performance by qualified technical consultants and GSIF
staff; (iii) engagement of technical experts in design and supervision of works; (iv) consultations
with technical experts in micro-projects in which special advice may be needed, as for example
irrigation or water supply projects; (v) training of GSIF staff, community development
committees and contractors in relevant fields of quality enhancement; (vi) the engagement of
advisors/supervisors in quality of works, micro-project procurement, MIS and cost accounting,
and compliance with the Operating Manual; (vii) annual procurement and technical reviews; and
(viii) quarterly Bank supervision missions leading up to a mid-term review and subsequent
semi-annual supervision missions.
GSIF will also support institution-building of local self-govemnment and the promotion of
participatory govemance at the local self-government and community levels. This activity will
involve issues related to local administration, community-level development planning
techniques, community mobilization strategies and advocacy. It will draw on USAID-financed
NGOs for the provision of training in these areas to local self-governments and communities.
4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
The Project Implementation Unit, GSIF, will be the executing agency of the project. The legal
status of this unit will be one of an autonomous agency reporting to a Board that has
representation from relevant ministries and civil society representatives. The establishment of
GSIF with structures, functions and staffing necessary to start project implementation is expected
by end-April, 2003. The organizational structure is set out in Annex 11.
4.2 Project management:
GSIF will be responsible for the overall management of the project, covering institutional,
technical and administrative matters. While GSIF will benefit from the experience and lessons
- 20 -



learned under GSIF 1, the shift in emphasis of operations under GSIF II will require significant
special training and on-the-job training in order to build up capacity to manage functions and
responsibilities in community development, as well as in management, coordination and
monitoring of the different component activities under the project, training and technical
coordination, and monitoring and evaluation. On-the-job training will also be provided to GSIF
to assist it in formulating strategies for each of the departments being created. (See Annex 12 on
GSIF in-house training).
Project management will be systematically assessed durng Bank supervision missions. At the
micro-project level, the assessment will cover: (i) the internal monitoring system ensuring that it
provides transparency and accountability of GSIF activities; (ii) procurement conducted by
community development committees and the technical quality of the rehabilitation works; (iii)
compliance with the project's criteria and procedures for appraisal, approval, implementation,
and monitoring set out in the Operating Manual; (iv) adherence to environmental standards; and
(v) effective maintenance of micro-project files. At the project management level, the assessment
will cover: (i) all documentation relating to disbursement, procurement and reporting; (ii) the
project accounting system and the project's financial accounts; and (iii) legal and financial
covenants ensuring that the Government is in compliance with the Credit Agreement. The
management information system will provide systematic and timely feedback through an
enhanced reporting and monitoring system for better decision making in project management.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessment was carried out during project preparation. Based on this assessment,
on-the-job and special training in procurement will be organized for the task teams. A
Procurement Action Plan outlining procurement training requirements was developed during
preparation and is provided in Annex 6(A).
4.4 Financial management issues:
Financial management arrangements for GSIF have been developed during project preparation by
an accounting consultant familiar with Bank financial requirements. With the aid of the
consultant, a new comprehensive Financial and Administrative Procedures Manual has been
developed, based on requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS),
including accrual accounting, which sets out procedures relating to financial management,
internal controls, accounting and auditing. The consultant also provided the necessary training to
the GSIF financial manager and staff in the proper application of IFRS, including principles of
accrual accounting, and other financial management procedures as per the new FAPM.
GSIF has also contracted a local taxation specialist. This will allow GSIF to correctly document
the taxes it has to pay, procedures for their calculation and payment, and procedures for recording
the taxes payable and paid in the accounting records.
New accounting software - 1C accounting software - has been selected and purchased. The
software package, which is widely used in Bank-financed projects, has proved to be capable of
providing accurate, timely and sufficiently detailed information regarding project resources and
expenditures, and flexible in terms of production of the necessary financial reports.  IC
accounting software is compatible with software currently employed in GSIF Management
-21 -



Information System, and is expected to be integrated with it.
GSIF intends to continue in future close cooperation with the accounting and tax consultants, and
with the software company. Also, the project will be supervised by the Bank FMS. All those
factors taken in conjunction may be regarded as a sound guarantee for successful operation of the
newly set-up financial management system. More details on financial management arrangements
for the project are in Annex 6(B) to the PAD.
Current.financial management arrangements, as they have been assessed for the new GSIF second
project, are in place and in compliance with Bank guidelines.
5. Environmental:              Environmental Category: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
No major environmental issues are anticipated under the project, given the relatively small size
and rehabilitation nature of most community infrastructure projects. Instead, the proposed
project is expected to have some positive environmental impact, especially by rehabilitating
sanitation and water-supply facilities. Likewise, improvements in schools in many instances is
expected to improve energy efficiency. Environmental concerns will be mitigated in the
selection and implementation of micro-projects. The relevant chapter of the Operating Manual
of the project will lay out procedures and implementation arrangements for ensuring full
consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the Bank's environmental
assessment guidelines. Each micro-project will be individually screened and reviewed by the
GSIF - by specific type - for any negative impact, as well as needed mitigating measures (a
sample EMP is included in the Operating Manual for those projects with more complex
environmental impact). The micro-project proposal will incorporate an environmental review
checklist, and the micro-project appraisal document will adapt type-specific analysis, costs, and
mitigation measures. Training will be provided to the community development specialists in
GSIF to carry out the evaluation and monitoring of micro-projects according to agreed
environmental standards. Whenever a micro-project would have an identifiable negative impact,
an appropriate mitigation plan would be submitted to IDA. Micro-projects with serious negative
impacts would be excluded from funding. The environmental impact methodology and
mitigation plans will be monitored during Bank supervision of the GSIF.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The Operating Manual describes the procedures and implementation arrangements required to
comply with environmental safeguards. It spells out the institutional responsibilities, including
the role of relevant government bodies for screening of proposed micro-projects, preparing
environmental assessments when and where necessary, reviewing such assessments, and
ascertaining that appropriate mitigation actions are included in contract documents and/or
mitigation plans. Public participation and consultation in the preparation of mitigation plans will
be mandatory.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: n/a
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
- 22 -



report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Georgian legislation requires that public consultations be held for all investments that could have
a significant environmental impact. At the national level, GSIF has undertaken a stakeholder
meeting with the concerned government authorities and the main NGOs that may be involved in
the project. In the case of micro-projects, stakeholders will be consulted on a case-by-case basis,
depending on the nature of the proposed project, during the screening process, during the
development of plans to address potential environmental impact, and during micro-project
supervision to assess environmental aspects of micro-projects. Typically, GSIF staff will hold
discussions on-site with the community during screening and with both the community and the
local self-government in preparing and reviewing environmental assessments and environmental
management plans, if and when required.  Whenever possible, experts within the local
self-government or community will participate directly in the preparation of environmental
assessments and plans. Communities must obtain all necessary permits and clearances from the
local self-government before final approval by the GSIF of any project proposal. During project
implementation, GSIF staff will monitor and supervise the quality of works and assess the
environmental standards of the micro-projects. In addition, annual technical reviews will be
carried out by independent consultants to assess the quality of works, including environmental
standards, of a number of selected micro-projects of different types.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Micro-project supervision and annual technical reviews will include environmental assessments
to ensure adequate compliance with environmental regulations and/or identify possible
environmental risks and required mitigation measures.
6. Social:
6.1 Sumnimanze key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
The key social issue relevant to project objectives which the project addresses is the mentality of
dependence and the absence in communities of self-reliance or ability to take collective action for
a common good. With a central State no longer able to provide adequate services and pursuing a
policy of decentralization, there is increasingly need for initiative and self-reliance at local levels
- its absence constitutes a severe roadblock to improved standards of living and higher welfare.
Against that background, the projects aims to strengthen social cohesion and grassroots action.
The expected social development outcomes of the project focus on key areas of social
development, i.e. inclusion and participation. The social development strategy implicit in the
project design includes frameworks to address these areas. With respect to inclusion, the
procedures for community investment projects will be designed to ensure that the poor and/or
vulnerable groups are able to participate in and benefit from project activities. Community
outreach by means of community development planning, mobilization and advocacy will ensure
the involvement of such people. With respect to participation, the project is designed as a
community-driven development project, whereby beneficiaries are directly involved in the
planning, identification, preparation, design, implementation, and subsequent operation of
community investment projects. The proposed project will support community development at
- 23 -



the local level by giving primacy to the active involvement of local self-governments and
communities in the decisions and activities which affect the quality of their lives, and thereby
enhance social cohesion.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
The main stakeholder at the national level is the Government, participating through GSIF's
Board, which oversees project management and ensures the consistency of GSIF II operations
with Government policy. At sub-national levels, -the main stakeholders are communities and
local self-governments, and here the capacity-building programs under GSIF II aim squarely at
providing them with skills that will ensure broad participation in the local development process.
Other local-level stakeholders are private enterprises that are eligible to participate in
micro-project implementation. Donors include KfW, which participates with the Bank in the
financing of GSIF I; KfW has participated in project preparation and is expected to continue its
active engagement through participation in Bank supervision missions. Through a partnership
arrangement with USAID, the project will facilitate participation by NGOs in supporting
community development under the project; at the same time, it is expected that local NGOs will
benefit from their exposure to and collaboration with the USAID-funded international NGOs on
various aspects of local development.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The community and local self-government participatory process is heavily dependent on the
participation of community-based organizations (either preexisting ones or ones developed as
part of the micro-project preparation process).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The Operating Manual will include a requirement that social assessments and public
consultations are an integral part of the micro-project generation and implementation process.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
GSIF will undertake regular assessments as mentioned above.  In addition, independent
beneficiary impact assessments will be undertaken periodically, the mid-term review will include
social development impact considerations in its analysis, and there will be a final beneficiary
impact assessment at the end of the project.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Are any of the following safeguard policies triggered by the pro ect?
.-iJ .r'  ..      ......      .     .    .     o-'z' Policy  b  rgged.
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)      0 Yes ( No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)              (9 Yes S No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                               (9 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                 (9 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                             (9 Yes S No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                              (9Yes    No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                     (_Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)
-24-



U Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  U) Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      U Yes * No
7 2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with enviromnental safeguards are covered
in section
5.0: Environmental.
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
Sustainability of project benefits is critically dependent on the following: (i) participatory local
decision making is institutionalized; (ii) administrative skills are applied; and (iii) communities
have ownership of micro-projects.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth columnn of Annex 1):
Risk                                                  ga on- eRiiaRatisg;~-  .ke.
From Outputs to Objective
Government remains committed to            S        CAS dialogue
decentralization
Local self-governments and communities     S        Micro-project cycle and capacity building
accept a participatory approach to local            components will contain strategies to
development and are willing to maintain             specifically address this risk element
and build on it
Critical mass of community members         M         Community mobilization and advocacy
participate during the micro-project cycle
From Components to Outputs
Timely availability of government          H         Based on quarterly implementation plans,
counterpart funds                                    government would deposit the necessary funds
on the account for government funds
GSIF able to effectively apply new         M         Extensive training program prior to project
approaches to micro-project, community              launch
and local self-government development
Timely availability of community           S         Participatory planning process, community
contributions                                       participation in setting local priorities and
appropriate scaling of micro-projects
Overall Risk Rating                        S         There is a significant risk when (i) community
mobilization is introduced into a post-Soviet
environment, where passive dependency on
government assistance is prevalent; (ii)
decentralization process is in its infancy; and
(iii) the project implementation agency is being
- 25 -



reorganized. The project is designed to
especially recognize these aspects: the
partnership with USAID will significantly
strengthen conununity mobilization and
institution building programs; and it would
introduce checks and balances into GSIF
operations. GSIF staff would undergo
extensive training prior to and during project
implementation.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
| Risk Rating          Risk Mitigation Measures
Inherent Financial Management Risk
1. Country financial management issues       M      Monthly morntoring of the arrears in Government
Counterpart Funding will be performed by the World
Bank Tbilisi Office Portfolio Analyst/FMO and
distnbuted to the task teams and country unit for their
information and follow-up
2. Project financial management issues       M      Regular and detailed supervision of the project,
including review of quarterly Financial Monitoring
Reports by the Bank FMS, especially at the
reparation and early implementation stages of the
project
3. Weak banking sector issue in Georgia       S     World Bank Tbilisi Office has a number of effective
measures in place to mitigate the nsk of loss of funds
due to weakness of the banking system in Georgia
4. Perceived corruptions                     M      Ring fencing of projects
Overall inherent FM n    M      Moderate
Financial Management Control Risk
1. Implementing entity                        L
2. Funds flow                                M      Guidelines of evaluation and documentation of the
communities' contributions in-kind are documented in
the new Financial and Administrative Procedures
Manual. Timely availability of Government
counterpart funds and community contributions
should be closely monitored by GSIF Financial
Manager.
3. Staffing                                   M     Training needs should be assessed by GSIF on the
annual basis and costs of the necessary training, if
any, should be included in budgets and approved in
advance.
4. Accounting policies and procedures         L
5. Internal audit                            n/a     ot applicable
6. External audit                             L
7. Reporting and monitoring                   L
8. Information systems                        L
Overall control risl  L
H - High, S - Substantial, M - Moderate, L - low
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
- 26 -



G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
*   The Borrower has entered into a agreement, acceptable to IDA, with GSIF for the purpose of
making available the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time for the carrying out
of the project.
*   A Project Account has been opened by the Borrower in a commercial bank on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association with an initial deposit of US$ 50,000; and
*   An Operating Manual, and accompanying manuals, handbooks and guidelines, satisfactory to
the Association, has been adopted by the Board of GSIF.
*   (d) the Borrower has submitted an initial 18 districts selected for Parts A and B of the Project,
acceptable to the Association.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Accounts/Audits
*   During execution of the project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project Account and transfer
each quarter an amount required to allow GSIF to perform in accordance with its annual work
plan and budget agreed with the Bank.
*   The Borrower shall have the records, accounts and financial statements (balance sheets, -a
summary of funds received, showing IDA funds, project funds from other donors, and
counterpart funds separately, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated separately; a
summary of expenditures, shown under the main project headings and by main categories of
expenditures, both for the current fiscal year and accumulated to-date; and a balance sheet
showing accumulated funds of the project, bank balances, other assets of the project, and
liabilities, if any) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association.
* The Borrower shall furnish to the Association not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as so audited, and (B)
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested
* GSIF shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and
substance satisfactory to the Association, which includes:
* a brief written discussion of the progress of the project including explanation of
significant variances between actual and budgeted amounts for the period (that is, actual
variances +/- 10% of budgeted amounts);
*   a Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds, which sets forth actual and budgeted sources
and applications of funds for the project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by
said report, shows applications of funds by main categories of expenditures and includes
actual to budget comparisons;
- 27 -



o   a summary of expenditures which sets forth actual and budgeted applications of funds for
the project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, shows
applications of funds by main project activities and includes actual to budget
comparisons;
o   a balance sheet showing accumulated funds of the project, bank balances, other assets of
the project, and liabilities, if any;
o   Output Monitoring Report, which describes physical progress in project implementation,
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances
between the actual and planned project implementation; and
o   Procurement Process Monitoring Report, which sets forth the status of procurement under
the project, as at the end of the period covered by said report.
Management Aspects of the Project
o   The GSIF shall notify and obtain prior approval of the Association for any changes in the
appointment of or terms of employment of the manager, deputy manager or department
managers.
o The Borrower shall ensure that GSIF's operations shall be carried out in accordance with the
procedures set forth or referred to in the Operating Manual and accompanying manuals,
handbooks and guidelines.
o Any changes in the procedures set forth in GSIF's Operating Manual and accompanying
manuals, handbooks and guidelines will require the approval of the Association
Monitoring, Review and Reporting
o The GSIF shall carry out, annually an independent technical and managerial audit of
implementation of the Project under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
o The GSIF shall: (a) furnish to the Association the draft Framework Agreement and such other
documents and information as the Association may request in respect of any of
Micro-projects for the Association's review and approval prior to GSIF's approval of: (i) any
social Micro-project estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more; and; (ii) any economic
Micro-project estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more.
o GSIF shall furnish to the Association an environmental mitigation plan, acceptable to the
Association, in case GSIF has identified negative impact on the environment.
o The GSIF shall:
o   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an
ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying
out of the project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
o   the Borrower shall review with the Association, by September 15, 2005, or such later date
as the Association shall request, the mid-term review report and, thereafter, take all
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the project and the achievement
of its objectives, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the mid-term report
and the Association views on the matter.
o   GSIF shall prepare an annual work plan and budget to be agreed with the Association.
- 28 -



H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
D 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
[ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
lIZ 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
C 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
Aleksandra Posarac               Annette Dixon                    D-M Dotfsett-Coirolo
Team Leader                      Sector Director                  Country Director
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
,iKey Performance*        DataCollecton Strategy          - ..
-4ierarcihy'of:Objecti`esf -    u Indicators -_*_-_._. .                            Critical,-Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country reports:   (from Goal to Bank Mission)
To decrease poverty and    Incidence, depth, severity of  Poverty Assessments that  Continued Government
vulnerability among the    poverty                    include income/consumption  commitment to poverty
population.                                           and non-income aspects of  reduction strategy
poverty;
Risk and vulnerability
assessments;
Social Protection Review
Project Development        Outcome i Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
Participating local        Participatory decision making Beneficiary impact      National policy continues to
self-govemments use        process institutionalized, as  assessments            pursue decentralization,
enhanced management skills  reflected in: (i) public access                      provide support to local
and a participatory process in to information; (ii) inclusion  Institutional assessments at  self-government and
establishing local pnorities  and informed participation;  local and community levels,  community based
and implementing local     (ni) mechanisms for public  including participatory   development, and promote
development plans.         accountability.            processes                  participatory local and
community partnerships
New administrative techniques
being applied by local self-
governments
Participating poor         Improved inclusiveness of  MIS generated information on Local Self-Goverment
communities apply for,     local initiatives with respect to stakeholder participation  authorities continue to apply
manage and use             poor and vulnerable groups.                            enhanced management skill
micro-projects in a sustainable                       World Bank supervision      sand communities continue to
manner                     Communities organize and   reports                     use mobilization and advocacy
mobilize resources to solve                           skills
problems of common interest. Quarterly and Annual Progress
Reports
Increased or stabilized income
flows as result of sustainable  Mid-term review report
economic infrastructure
rehabilitation micro-projects.  End-of-project independent
beneficiary and impact
assessment
Implementation Completion
Report
Participating poor         Completed micro-projects
communities benefit from   being operated on a
improved social and economic sustainable basis and used by
infrastructure and related  the beneficiaries for the
services                   intended purposes
- 30 -



;- D-aty P=  crnia'nce  zDat Co1lectionrSirate_gy I .
HiMich--f bj'"ctives          IndicAtors    ;                           XI.CikIA~rpi1&
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:          (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
I a. Increased capacity of  Number of local development Beneficiary impact     Local self-governments and
communities to define     programs elaborated in a   assessments               communities accept a
problems and organize     participatory process.                               participatory approach to local
themselves to work towards                          Institutional assessments at  development and are willing to
sustainable solutions, and  Number of community     local and community levels  maintain and build on it
participate in local      members involved in        carried out by GSIF       Participatory community
development decisions     participatory process                                development mechanism has a
demonstration effect on other
communities
I.b. Increased capacity of  Number of local          MIS generated information on Local self-government
local self-governments in  self-governments trained in  stakeholder participation  authorities and communities
decentralized planning and  administration and                                 commit to operating and
management and in the     participatory techniques.  Special studies (GSIF)    maintaining project
application of participatory                                                   infrastructure on a sustainable
techniques                                                                     basis
2. Economic and social    Number infrastructure      World Bank supervision
infrastructure appropriate to  facilities rehabilitated, total  reports
the community installed and  and by micro-project type
operational                                          Annual training reviews
Quarterly and Annual Progress
Reports
3. Improved capacity of GSIF Number of GSIF staff who
to manage and administer its  have participated in training  Mid-term review report
operations
Feedback from GSIF staff on  Implementation Completion
integrated team approach   Report
Feedback from communities
on GSIF services.
Feedback from contractors on
contracting arrangements for
service provision
Share of GSIF operating costs
to total cost of Micro-projects
completed/year
Micro-project cycle duration
not exceeding 350
days/average
Proportion of contracts
completed on time.
Proportion of contracts
completed on budget.
- 31 -



Re- *   ' KyPerformance    Data Collection_Strategy  |          .        .
I:ibrarcfiy f Objptivgs   i-   'Indicators, --                                  Critical Ass
Project Components /      Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:           component)                                           Outputs)
1. Capacity-building      $4.00 million             Same as above             Timely availability of
- participatory planing                                                    government counterpart funds
- institution-building
2. Micro-projects         $22 60 million                                       Timely availability of
community contributions
3. Project management     $3.60 million                                        Communities receptive to
empowerment
GSIF able to effectively apply
new approaches to
micro-projects, community
and local self-government
development
- 32 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
The project would consist of two mutually reinforcing components, as well as a project
management component for project implementation (GSIF). The components comprise (a)
capacity building at local community and self-government levels, relating to the participatory
planning process, and institutional strengthening of local self-governments through training in
management and administrative skills; (b) identification, development and implementation of
community-based micro-projects; and (c) project management. All project components would be
managed by a reorganized GSIF. GSIF would implement the capacity building component under
a partnership arrangement with the USAID-financed programs the Georgia Community
Mobilization Initiative and the Georgia Local Government Reform Initiative.
Government in Georgia has four levels - state, region, local (district) government, local
self-government. Local self-government is the lowest level, and it may consist of a village or a
group of villages, a town or a city. In the case of larger towns and cities, there may be more than
one local self-government, representing different sections of the town or city. In most instances,
self-government units have an elected local self-government council.  The Government's
decentralization program  covering the 2000-2005 period  aims at devolving extensive
responsibilities to local self-governments: (i) local utility services; (ii) budget planning and
management; and (iii) asset management. It will also assign local taxes and other sources of
revenue to local self-governments. The different levels of government are described in Annex
17.
At start-up, GSIF will focus on communities in peri-urban areas, rural towns and villages in six
of the poorest districts in each of its two Areas of Operation that do not include KfW districts (in
that Area, it is expected that GSIF will give priority to KfW-targeted districts).  The
determination of those initial districts will be done by GSIF and implementing partners on the
basis of jointly developed criteria. (The term "implementing partners" indicates the NGOs or
other agencies carrying out capacity building activities and financed under the partnership
agreement with USAID.) This list would be a condition of effectiveness. Subsequently, GSIF
would operate on a national scale, while continuing to give priority to poor communities in
pen-urban areas, rural towns and villages.  In the agreed districts, GSIF staff will, in
collaboration with the implementing partners undertake a needs-based ranking of local
self-government units using a transparent two-stage ranking process.  Initially all local
self-government units within the district will be ranked by means of key informants representing
each local self-governmnent unit and cross-checked with available statistical data. Following that
ranking, GSIF staff will in collaboration with the implementing partners undertake a rapid needs
assessment of at least one third, but not less than three, of the local self-governments with the
lowest rankings. On the basis of the rapid needs assessment, the three poorest self-governments
will be selected for community mobilization process, advocacy, and capacity and institutions
building. Community mobilization involves generating community support around specific
activities. Advocacy involves identifying issues and objectives and developing strategies and
targeted messages to mobilize outside support for community interests.
- 33 -



Micro-project identification occurs according to the following process:
1. a community development plan is elaborated by each of the communities in the local
self-government with implementing partner facilitation (and GSIF monitoring) using
participatory techniques; (in a few cases, where the partnership arrangement with USAID
may not be applied, GSIF will contract out the task to qualified NGOs, firms or individuals);
2. community plans are then consolidated in a participatory way at the local self-government
level, involving full consultation with the communities and further facilitation by the
implementing partners;
3. micro-projects proposed for financing are drawn from such plans. In cases where local
self-governments are assessed by GSIF and implementing partners as being insufficiently
established, plans will not be consolidated and proposals will be drawn from community
development plans.
A set of criteria for use in the key informant process and needs assessments has been developed
by GSIF, based on its previous experience, experience of NGOs and donors active in community
mobilization in Georgia, and recent beneficiary impact assessments. Mainly, readily available
socioeconomic indicators will be used, such as: (i) access to basic social and economic
infrastructure; (ii) income levels and economic activity; (iii) unemployment; (iv) extent of
Government and donor intervention; (v) lack of natural assets; (vi) location - distance from the
district center, altitude; and (vii) other qualitative indicators that reflect the level of organization
and participation in the communities. Detailed procedures and criteria will be included in the
Operating Manual. It is expected that the two-stage procedure to targeting will allow resources
to be channeled to the neediest communities. Criteria will be further developed and refined by
GSIF prior to and during project implementation.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$4.00 million
(a) Capacity building:
This component, which would support the Government's decentralization effort, would provide
training and technical assistance to enable communities and local self-governments to address the
needs and priorities for local development through a capacity building program that would aim at
increasing the competences of local self-governments, involve citizens in decision-making and,
ultimately, create empowerment at the local level. The capacity building component would have
two sub-components: (i) community development planning and related micro-project
development, and advocacy; and (ii) institutional strengthening of local self-governments in line
with their evolving responsibilities for local utility services, taxation, budget planning and local
management.
A partnership agreement between GSIF and two USAID-financed programs currently underway
in Georgia: (i) the Georgia Community Mobilization Initiative and (ii) the Georgia Local
Government Reform Initiative, will be established, where USAID would finance the
- 34 -



implementation of the capacity building component at community and local self-government
levels. Under the former, GSIF would collaborate with implementing partners in assisting
communities and self-governments to draw up participatory local development plans and provide
training in micro-project implementation, community mobilization and advocacy skills; under the
latter, GSIF and implementing partners would collaborate in providing local self-govemments
management training. Field-level implementation would be undertaken by NGOs and other
organizations. A framework agreement would be established between the two USAID programs
and GSIF.  It is expected that the partnership arrangements would apply to most GSIF
interventions. Only in a small minority of cases would capacity building be contracted out to
qualified NGOs, firms or individuals under GSIF financing.
Community development planning and micro-project development would focus on developing
community level development plans and integrating them into consolidated local
self-government plans using participatory methods. It is expected that the process would (a) help
move communities and local self-governments from a dependency culture focused on short-term
interventions to one that recognizes that communities can have the ability to improve their living
conditions and prospects for sustainable development through the active involvement of
community members; and (b) introduce a comprehensive local development framework for
overcoming poverty issues through prioritization of investment needs in a participatory manner
through interaction between community members and local self-government authorities. The
community development planning process would also serve to (c) identify micro-projects for
GSIF financing. Significant capacity building would be linked to micro-project development and
implementation, again focusing on communities and local-self-governments. The emphasis
would be on building their capacity to plan, prioritize, manage, operate, supervise and maintain
investments.  Specific topics to be covered would include: (i) needs assessment and
prioritization; (ii) elaboration of development plans and their costing; (iii) project identification
and formulation focusing on developing project proposals together with detailed cost estimates;
(ii) project costing and accounting; (iii) procurement; (iv) mobilization of the community in
construction and maintenance activities; (v) building partnerships with local authorities, NGOs,
and other entities; (vii) fund raising techniques; (viii) disseminating of information to community
members on micro-project activities; (viii) formulation of business plans; (ix) quality control;
and (x) monitoring and evaluation.
Institution-building at the local self-government level will provide training to local
self-governments in areas where micro-projects are being implemented. It will focus on
enhancing understanding of current legislation relating to decentralization and local
self-government, and it will strengthen skills in local financial administration (budgeting and
accounting), asset management (inventory monitoring, operation and maintenance of assets),
information dissemination (i.e., community meetings, public hearings and referendums, surveys,
and information materials), and the participatory planning process.
Project Component 2 - US$22.60 million
(b) Community-based micro-projects
This component would finance on a grant basis small community-level economic and social
- 35 -



infrastructure micro-projects located in poor peri-urban areas and rural towns and villages.
Micro-projects would be proposed for GSIF financing based on priorities set up by the
participatory local development planning process. They would be carried out by community
development committees. Examples of micro-project types include: small-scale water supply
and sanitation systems, minor irrigation works, solid waste management; land clearance, etc.;
community health center rehabilitation; school rehabilitation, including related equipment,
furniture, materials, including teaching materials, and fixtures; winterization of facilities; and
space redesign to take into consideration function (need), work flow and energy efficiencies.
(The menu of micro-projects is set out in Annex 13.) In addition, the component would finance
consultant services for micro-project design and supervision to ensure good quality of works.
The maximum size of an economic micro-project would be US$ 150,000 equivalent; the
maximum size of a social micro-project would be US$ 100,000 equivalent. Average size of
micro-projects would be targeted at below US$ 50,000. The minimum size of infrastructure
micro-projects would remain at US$ 10,000 equivalent.
A community contribution would be mandatory. Under GSIF I, a minimum community
contribution of 16 percent of the micro-project cost was required, either in cash or in kind. When
a sponsor was contributing, a minimum of 3 percent was still required from the community
members. In many instances, communities were unable to mobilize the necessary counterpart
funding, and poorer communities in particular found themselves at a disadvantage.
Consequently, during the mid-term review of GSIF I, the minimum community contribution was
reduced to 5 percent.  During preparation of GSIF II, appropriate levels for community
contributions were discussed (see section on Lessons learned and reflected in project design).
As a result, the community contribution would be set at 10 percent (net of taxes) of the cost of a
micro-project.
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.60 million
(c) Institutional Support to GSIF
This component would support the Project Management Unit through the provision of limited
office equipment (computers, software, printers, photocopy machines, fax machines, etc.),
vehicles, consultants' fees, operating costs such as communications, local travel, utilities,
printing and publication, office supplies, fuel, vehicle insurance and inspection, vehicle
maintenance and repair, project audits, training and technical assistance, and monitoring and
evaluation.
The component will also finance training for GSIF staff on a range of topics identified during
GSIF I implementation ( See section on Lessons learned and reflected in project design) and
GSIF II preparation. Already, study tours and workshops have been organized under a Dutch
Trust Fund arrangement. An intensive training program, which initially will be launched under a
PHRD grant, will cover participatory local development, micro-project design, appraisal,
procurement and implementation concepts and processes, information systems management and
use, management and planning, and administration. The program is described in Annex 12.
- 36 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
*                                                    I--; -=sv>.gdl- ,-
. rP,roJectCost   oinprn r                  $milt S- V'oniiiin n- o   S$ ilion ;
Capacity building                                        3.80         0.00         3.80
Micro-projects                                          22.20         0.00        22.20
Project Management                                       3.15         0.30         3.45
Total Baseline Cost                                     29.15         0.30        29.45
Physical Contingencies                                  0.30         0.03         0.33
Price Contingencies                                     0.40         0.02         0.42
Total Project Costsl            29.85         0.35        30.20
Total Financing Required             29.85        0.35         30.20
-.-e.                      . . W.<*       $m       I ign-  a  .-gTotal
-~~~  ~~~                   S'~~~~~$~~~T5~.ill(rr ~$ioin,~ ___rni__lio
Microprojects                                             22.60         0.00        22.60
Goods                                                      0.02          0.08         0.10
Consultant services                                        4.08          0.10         4.18
Training                                                   0.12          0.07         0.19
Studies                                                    0.23          0.00         0.23
Incremental Operating Costs                                2.80          0.10         2.90
Total Project Costs     29.85          0.35        30.20
Total Financing Required    29.85          0.35        30.20
Identifiable taxes and duties are 4.9 (US5m) and the total project cost, net of taxes. is 25 3 (USSrn) Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 59 29
% of total project cost net of taxes
- 37 -



Annex 4: Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
'*PresentValue of F  iows            Fiscal Impact-
'-Economif AnaIysis Financial Analysts-- Twxs
-  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~Txs-                  Subsidies
Project Costs           Not applicable    Not applicable    US$ 4.9
______________________ _          I   m illion
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The difference between financial and
economic costs arises from price controls on the inputs."
Summary of benefits and costs:
Given the demand-driven nature of the micro-projects, the variations in their typology and size,
and their dispersal across Georgia, conventional ex-ante economic or financial analyses were not
carried out during project preparation. However, micro-projects to be financed under the project
are expected to yield high social and economic returns, since GSIF would finance simple but
cost-effective social and economic infrastructure (see Annex 13). The use of competitive
bidding processes may generate savings ranging from 10-20 percent of estimated costs for each
micro-project (based on experiences and analyses of other social investment funds in the ECA
region), when compared with infrastructure provided through conventional government
ministries.
Although a full-scale economic analysis would not be carried out ex-ante, a number of selection
criteria would be used to screen micro-project proposals submitted and to eliminate
micro-projects that are not cost-effective. First, the selection of micro-projects would be
demand-driven, selected by local self-governments and their communities on the basis of
community plans, where investment priorities have been determined based on need, affordability
and absorptive capacity in the beneficiary communities. Moreover, feasibility studies will be
carried out for each proposed micro-project. In addition to the site surveys and
technical/environmental reviews of the proposed infrastructure, criteria covering technical,
social, economic, and financial aspects will be used for each type of infrastructure to assess
overall economic viability of the project.
The use of project funds in a cost effective manner is an issue that will be addressed during the
course of the project and especially during the mid-term review. The focus of analysis will be on
recording actual costs of completed micro-projects, estimated costs of micro-projects in the
pipeline, and the composition of such costs in terms of materials, labor, and overheads. The data
thus obtained and recorded in the management information system would be used to develop
monitorable benchmarks of cost-effectiveness. These benchmarks will then be inputted into the
project's management information system.
To ensure the cost-effectiveness of individual micro-projects, a unit cost database will be
- 38 -



maintained to assess various norms and standards, cost per beneficiary and possible rates of
return for different types of micro-projects (such as water supply and schools). This would help
GSIF arrive at least-cost solutions to infrastructure needs. Beneficiary impact assessments
throughout the life of the project will ascertain the impact of micro-projects on communities, and
will enable GSIF to gain a better understanding about who in terms of gender, age,
socioeconomic group and vulnerable status is actually benefiting.
The carrying out of a full scale cost-effectiveness analysis will be discussed during the mid-term
review of the project, based on the progress in implementing micro-projects. Such an analysis
will include: (i) the project rationale within the broader economic context of the Government's
economic poverty reduction strategy, as well as the Bank's country assistance strategy; (ii)
effective targeting of project funds to poor areas; and (iii) cost-effectiveness in the use of funds
compared to those of government programs or NGO sponsored projects. At a detailed level, such
an analysis will include: (a) direct costs covering labor, materials, and service costs at site; (b)
overheads, which are essentially GSIF office costs; (c) short-term employment created; (d) the
increased demand for materials and services; and (e) cost-effectiveness indicators. The data for
this analysis will be generated by the management information system. The analysis will also
include an assessment project impact as perceived by the populations benefiting from the
micro-projects
Main Assumptions:
1. Government commitment throughout the life of GSIF, and disbursement of government
financial contributions in a timely manner.
2. Provision of community contributions as required.
3. The required technical norms and standards are maintained in the design and construction
phases of micro-projects.
4. Beneficiary calculations will only include direct beneficiaries of a micro-project.
5. All activities are carried out in a transparent and accountable manner.
Cost-effectiveness indicators:
The cost-effectiveness analysis will include the following indicators:
1. Average cost per each type of micro-project; and
2. Impact and efficiency indicators, examples of which are listed below:
Micro-projects                           Indicators
Potable Water                            Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit of pipe length
Irrigation                               Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit of pipe length,
Cost per Irrigated hectare
School Rehabilitation                    Cost per beneficiary, Cost per unit area.
Such indicators should compare the micro-project with a suitable comparator, e.g. unit project
costs of alternative project designs or international standards.
JThese indicators should compare the project with a suitable comparator, e g. unit project costs of alternative project
designs or international standards.
- 39 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Years Ending
12131
>~~~tN; l>- - --tP.ll.i-iO#RfOD             -- b 
Year           2 Year2    3     Year 4   | Year 5     Year6   | Year7
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            0.1        5.7        9.4       11.2       0.9        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.2         0.8       0.8        0.9        0.2        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           0.3        6.5       10.2       12.1        1.1       0.0       0.0
.Total Financing               0.3        6.5       10.2       12.1       1.1        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                    0.2        3.2        5.0       6.0        0.6       0.0        0.0
Govemment                   0.1        1.1        1.7        2.1       0.2       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0         1.1       1.7        2.1        0.2       0.0        0.0
Provincial              0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Co-financiers               0.0        1.1        1.6        1.9       0.2       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries       0.0        0.5        0.8        0.8        0.1       0.0        0.0
Other                         0.0        0.6        1.1        1.3        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      0.3        6.5       10.2       12.1        1.1       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
1. A micro-project cycle of on average 350 days;
2. Government contribution is forthcomig in a timely maner.
- 40 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Procurement
General
6.1         Procurement of works and goods under the project will follow the Procurement
Guidelines "Procurement under IBRD Credits and IDA Credits" published in January 1995,
revised in January and August 1996, September 1997, and January 1999. Procurement of
consulting services under the project will follow the Consultants Guidelines "Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January 1997, revised in
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002. The procedures outlined in these Guidelines apply
to all contracts financed in whole or in part from the Bank Credit. Project activities not financed
by the Bank will be procured in accordance with procurement procedures agreed between the
respective financing organizations and the Government.
6.2         The project will be financed by an IDA Credit of US$ 15.0 million equivalent, a
Government counterpart contribution of US$ 5.8 million, beneficiary financing of US$ 1.7
million, German Government co-financing of US$ 4.7 million, and USAID financing of US$ 3
million equivalent. The aggregate cost of the investment is US$ 30.2 million equivalent.
Notification of Business Opportunities
6.3         A  General Procurement Notice (GPN) would be published in the UN
Development Business, No. 603, March 31, 2003 and would be annually updated. For ICB goods
contracts and large-value consultants contracts (more than US$ 200,000), Specific Procurement
Notice would be advertised in the Development Business and national press, and in the case of
NCB, in a major local newspaper (in the national language).
Procurement Management
6.4         The Government of Georgia through a Presidential Decree No. 527 dated August
16, 1996 established the Georgian Social Investment Fund (GSIF). The Decree was amended by
Decree No. 105 dated March 28, 2003. The GSIF is a juridical entity under Public Law. It is an
autonomous public sector institution reporting to the GSIF Board.  It has independent
procurement and disbursement procedures that operate on the basis of the World Bank
procedures and its approved Operating Manual. The GSIF will have overall responsibility for the
management of procurement activities under the project. The procurement arrangements under
the project are primarily based on the Bank appraisal of the existing procurement management
capacity of the GSIF. The Capacity Assessment report and action plan are shown in Table C to
this Annex.
6.5         Delegation of Procurement Function. The GSIF will provide technical assistance
to the Community Development Committee (CDC) in undertaking procurement.      In
communities, procurement of goods, works and services is the primary responsibility of the
-41-



CDCs. For each micro-project, GSIF will enter into a Framework Agreement with the CDC and
the procurement procedures will be agreed. The Framework Agreement will specify inter alia
the terms and conditions under which the funds may be used. The CDCs will operate as
Employers and will be in charge of taking all steps and decision necessary for procurement in
relation to the micro-projects.
Procurement Scope and Procedures Arrangements
6.6         The Bank is planning to provide US$ 15.0 million Credit to the Government of
Georgia to continue to finance, on a grant basis, basic economic and social infrastructure
micro-projects. The GSIF II project will have three components: (a) capacity building at local
community and self-government levels, relating to the participatory planning process, and
institutional strengthening of local self-governments through training in management and
administrative skills; (b) identification, development, implementation of community-based
micro-projects; and (c) project management. The Project will finance the procurement of
micro-project works, goods, consultant services, training and incremental operating costs. Table
A summanzes the project costs by procurement arrangements. The procurement plan is shown in
Table B. A summary assessment of procurement capacity of the implementing agency and the
Bank's review processes is shown in Table C. For procurement financed by the Bank Credit, the
Borrower shall use the Bank's latest Standard Bidding Documents, Standard Form of Consultant
Contracts and Request for Proposals (RFP), and Standard Bid Evaluation Forms.
Procurement of Micro-projects Works
6.7         The project will finance community-based micro-projects to be identified. The
GSIF will contract out micro-projects through the CDCs to individuals, private contractors, and
community based organizations following procedures detailed in the OM and Framework
Agreement.  Procurement of Micro-projects will be based on Community Participation
Procurement (CPP) as described under 3.15 of the Procurement Guidelines. The relevant
procurement procedures, described in detail in the OM, include: National Competitive Bidding
and Minor Works procedures. The procedures would require local advertisement and public bid
opening in line with the sample bidding documents and standard contract forms specifically
developed for community application under micro-projects as attached to the OM.
Nongovernmental organizations, local contractors and other community-based organizations,
registered according to legislation will be allowed to bid.
Procurement of Goods
6.8         The project will finance the procurement of goods and  including office
equipment and furniture, computer and software as shown in Table B. Goods will be grouped to
the extent possible and considering project objectives, in package sizes and homogenous
groupings that will encourage competitive bidding. The following methods of procurement will
be followed:
(i)  International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Goods contracts estimated at more
than US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract, will be procured using International
- 42 -



Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with the Bank Procurement
Guidelines. Bid documents for ICB will be prepared in accordance with the Bank
Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for Procurement of Good.
(ni) International Shopping (IS) and/or National Shopping (NS). IS procedures
will be used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost per contract less than US$
100,000 equivalent per contract, covering office equipment, computers and software.
NS procedures will be used for the purchase of goods estimated to cost per contract less
than US$ 30,000 equivalent per contract, covering office furniture and fixture. IS/NS
procedures applied would be consistent with the provisions of the Bank Procurement
Guidelines. The Bank's ECA Regional sample format for International Shopping
"Invitation to Quote" available on the ECA Procurement Web Site will be applied. The
IS format will be modified for use in National Shopping.
Procurement of Consulting Services
6.9          Contracts for consultant services to be executed by the GSIF as shown in Table B
will be packaged in a manner that will combine related skills and services, in order to attract
competition, improve quality of services, to reduce the number of contracts to be managed by the
GSIF. The following methods of procurement would be followed:
(i) Least Cost Selection (LCS) procedures would be used for auditing services
contracts for annual audit throughout the life of the project and a technical and
procurement audit.
(ii) Consultant Qualification (CQ) procedures would be used for consulting services
for the design of micro-project construction and monitoring and evaluation estimated
under US$ 100,000 per contract.
(iii) Individual Consultants (IC) would be hired in accordance with Section V of the
Consultant Guidelines. The GSIF consultants, who have been competitively selected
under the GSIF I project and would continue service under the implementation of the
GSIF II project, would be hired on a sole source basis in accordance with paragraph 5.4
of the Guidelines.
6.10  Incremental Operating Costs.  The operating costs of administering the GSIF as
detailed in annual budgets approved by the Borrower, and reviewed and approved by the IDA,
would be 59% financed under the Credit on average for the duration of the project.
6.1 1. Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement of goods and services for the project would be
-43 -



carried out in accordance with the agreed procurement plan (Table B), which would be updated
annually, included in the progress report, and reviewed by the Bank.
(i) Prior Review
Goods and works: Prior review of bidding documents, including review of evaluation,
recommendation of award and contract would be conducted for all ICB and IS. The
first two NS contracts for goods, first two MW for works and those NCB works above
US$ 50,000 would require prior review.
Consulting Services and Training: Requests for Proposal (RFP), terms of reference
(TOR), short lists, terms of condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports and
recommendation for award would be prior reviewed by the Bank for contracts for
individual consultants above US$ 50,000 and firms above US$ 100,000. All
documents and recommendations involving sole source contracting would be subject
to Bank prior review.
After award of contracts, should any material modifications or waiver of terms and conditions of
a contract resulting in an increase or decrease above 15 percent of the original amount, the Bank
would undertake a prior review of such modifications (including modifications to contracts for
consulting services).
(ii)  Post Review Those contracts below the Bank's prior review threshold, are subject to the
Bank's ex-post review. Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of not less than I in 5 procurement
contracts will be undertaken during regular supervision missions.
6.12. Custom Duties and Taxes
All custom duties and taxes for goods specifically imported for the project and for all technical
assistance would be financed by the Borrower.
6.13. Action Plan for strengthening Agency's Capacity to I[mplement Project Procurement
The following action plan is recommended to strengthen the procurement administration capacity
of the GSIF:
(i)   The existing procurement capacity of the GSIF will be transferred to GSIF, i.e. the
Procurement Manager and three procurement specialists positions shall be transferred to
GSIF II project administration. In the reorganization of GSIF, there will no longer be a
separate procurement department.  Instead, procurement will be undertaken by
operational task teams. Each member of a task team will be trained in procurement, have
procurement responsibilities and will be responsible for ensuring that all procurement
related to micro-project activities is designed and undertaken in conformity with rules
- 44 -



stated in the Operating Manual. GSIF procurement will be overseen by the previous
Procurement Manager who will become one of the area managers. He was competitively
selected under the GSIF I project and would continue service under the implementation of
the GSIF II project, where he would be hired on a sole source basis in accordance with
paragraph 5.4 of the Guidelines.  He would also be responsible for GSIF-related
procurement.
(ii)  In order to update the procurement knowledge of the current staffing, the former
Procurement Unit Manager shall attend training on community-based project
procurement management run by the Bank. The procurement training for task teams shall
be provided in GSIF by the former Procurement Manager and accredited Bank PAS, as
well as consultants experienced in Bank procurement methods.
(iii)  Initiating a Project Launch Workshop before the credit effectiveness, as part of the project
implementation/capacity building initiatives, especially in procurement, to train the GSIF,
NGOs and CDCs staff.
(iv)  Supervision of the procurement activities in the project by the Bank shall be decentralized
to the Bank's Resident Office in Tbilisi.
(v)   Periodic ex-post review by the Bank of 1 in 5 contracts during the supervision missions
every 3 months until mid-term review, subsequently every 6 months..
(vi)  An experienced intemational consultant shall be selected under the PHRD financing, to
assist the GSIF in updating the procurement sections of the OM and procurement
management through MIS for the GSIF 2 project
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
nditur' -ea- t        '-e        d                 :''." - "g                   'r :7 13-X
n -ure -           ~B~                 NCB                       NBF   hTt.*'t
1. Works                        0.00           7.00        8.70        5.90      21.60
for Micro-Projects             (0.00)         (5.50)      (5.80)       (0.00)    (11.30)
2. Goods                        0.00           0.00        0.09        0.00       0.09
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.08)      (0.00)    (0.08)
3. Services                     0.00           0.00        5.01        0.00       5.01
Consulting Services            (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.42)     (0.00)     (1.42)
4. Training and Studies         0.00           0.00        0.40        0.00       0.40
(0.00)        (0.00)       (0.40)      (0.00)    (0.40)
5. Incremental Operating Cost   0.00           0.00        2.90        0.00       2.90
(0.00)        (0.00)       (1.70)      (0.00)    (1 70)
-45 -



6. Miscellaneous                        0.00             0.00           0.20           0.00         0.20
(0.00)           (0.00)          (0. 10 )      (0.00)       (0. I 0)
Total                                0.00             7.00           17.30          5.90        30.20
(0.00)            (5.50)         (9.50)        (0.00)       (15.00)
"Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Other includes:
I. Goods. "Other" includes packages to be procured through International and National Shopping.
2. Works. "Others" includes Minor Works.
3. Consulting Services: "Other" includes consultant services, to be contracted through selection procedures of CQ,
least cost, and individual consultants.
4 Training- "Other" includes all costs associated with study tours, workshops and training.
5. Incremental Operating Cost: "Other" includes annual operating budgets of thle GSIF.
6. Miscellaneous: "Other" includes the social charges.
-46 -



Table B. Procurement Plan
Given the demand-driven nature of the project, the procurement plan will contain a summary of Procurement
Activities, Methods and Schedules for operations under micro-project component and capacity building and project
management components. Estimated cost and number of packages are approximate, may vary during life of the
project and will be reviewed annually or as needed
Oili Wks
NLtrfEsti ted               Prepairitionl of f        Seleclon,
]ID     Pticlwge tNMptipon   ~Pe Nubr of     Qst      Proc ureent    Tl    o  Preparation i  Evaluation and  ODnirad  Contract
P11 ges 1 ti&n        nwthod     speificatons  Proposals    1DA       Rgaing  Conhpedion
_DCounrrnce
NMcroprtects           MN       315      15 80     NC19MW
I   Total Me   cjes      =                IS80 
VC I Vdecles                GDods     I        001         is                     15-Jl-04   16-Aug.04   17-Sq>04  18-Oct-04
VC 2 VeIides                Goxds _I            01         IS    1_5-3u01               5 1J6-Aug405    17-Sqep05  1S-OXt-05
VC3 Vehdces                GCods      I        001         LS                     15-Jul-06  16-Ag 06   17-S>O6    18-Oi-06
GC I Of fice Eq'pt C-Ts     Goods     1        004         is                     1-Dx-03     1-Feb-04  20Feb-04   1-Mvr-04
and Softr__                                                 _
GC22 FwutCre ad FoIdures    Gxxts     1        001                _    _   _      2-Jan-04    I-Nbr-04   15-ISr-04  30vr-04
Total Goods                        0.09
Consultng Swvices
Estimated                              IDA       SelecLdon
P_ cge Descripdon   Type NlNuner of   Ct      Procrenent   Preparation of  IDA     Evaluation, a  Contract Cotrac
Pacloige Icription  Type  Pacl       C 9rillion  nhod        TM           DOnRence    MA        Siging  Conmpleton
_oConcurre
CS I MIitmng ard Evaluahon   CS       4        021        CQ         15-Jun-04    15-SS>04   15-N'v-04  15-Ewc04    15-M0
CS2 PnyectAudt               CS       I        011        LCS        15-May-04    15-Jun-04  15-Aug-04  15-Nv-04    15-Apr4
CS3 Ll Advisor               CS                001        LCS        15-Dec-03    15-Feb04   15-Mar-04  15-My-4     31-Dec4
CS4 CanmtyMobahzaticn        CS       4        269       QCBS        IS-Sep-03    15-t-04    15-DIc03    15-JaIn-04  31-Cec4
CS 5 Desigi and Supvision    CS      75        080         O         15-Mwr-04    15-   4     15-Jun-04  15-Jul-04  31-Dec4
Sub-total                     =_                3.82            _              _      __                     =_
Other Categories
Tining                |                   02         N/A       _            _          _            _         _
thalqxmnqc=rg oosts                       942        NIA
(stafffees, nwmals_
SomalhrgesfirPUStaff i         ____       017        N/A      _            _           _           _         _
Sutotal                           2.79
OterDDnors                          7.70
TUrAL PRO)ECT OOST                      30.20
-47 -



Table C: Summary of Procurement Activities
ICB           NCB           is            NS            DC        % of Credit
subject to
___________  _____________prior      review
Goods
Procurement thresholds.        Above                        Below         Below                       95%
$100,000                     $100,000      $30,000
Prior Review                   Ali packages                 All packages  First 2 contracts
Micro-Project Works                                                       Minor Works
Procurement thresholds                          Above                     Below                        0%
$30,000                   $30,000
Prior Review                                Contracts                 First 2
above                     contracts
$50,00
Consultants                                  Consultant    Least Cost   Single-        Individual
Qualification              Source         Consultants
s
Prior Review                                    Short-list,  Short-list,  TORs and draft  Shortlist,
TORs,        TORs,        contracts for all  TORs,
evaluation   evaluation   contracts       evaluation
reports and  reports and                  reports and
draft        draft contracts              draft
contracts   for audit                     contracts
for all      contracts                    for
contracts    above                        contracts
above        $100,000                     above
$100,000                                  $50,000
- 48 -



Ex-post Review                x-post review mechanism  Review carried out in accordance with Para 4 of Appendix I of the Bank's
Gutdelines and reviews dunng supervision missions
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency in Procurement and Technical Assistance
r equirements
Brnef statement
The Govemment of Georgia through a Presidential Decree established the Georgian Social Investmen
und. The GSIF was formed as a juridical entity under the Public Law on Apnl 13, 1998. It is an
autonomous public sector institution reporting to the GSIF Board The GSIF has implemented GSIF I
roject following independent procurement and disbursement procedures based on the World Ban
procedures and its approved Operational Manual
Under GSIF II, the previous head of the procurement department would serve as one of the are
managers, and he would be responsible for oversight of procurement The manager, who was
competitively selected under the GSIF I project and would continue service under the implementation o
he GSIF II project, would be hired on a sole source basis in accordance with paragraph 5.4 of the
Guidelines In addition, every member of each of the area department task teams will have procurement
responsibilities and will be responsible for ensuring that all procurement related to mucro-project
activities is designed and undertaken in conformity with rules stated in the Operating Manual, with
assistance whenever necessary from the procurement-overseeing area manager. Training and techncal
assistance will be provided to the Micro-Project Comnuittee (CDC) and contractors by the task teams in
undertaking procurement
Country Procurement        Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the first year ready9 Yes
Assessment Report or Country  The bidding documents for the first year of project implementation are being prepared and would be
Procurement Strategy Paper  ready by Credit effectiveness.
status A CPAR for Georgia has
been completed For this
Project, the Government would
follow the agreed Bank
procurement procedures as
described in this document and
in the Development Credit
Agreement.
Section 3- Training, Information and Development on Procurement
stimated date of Project Launch Workshop: October 2003
stimated date of publication of General Procurement Notice: March 2003
ndicate if there is procurement subject to mandatory SPN in Development Business No
Domestic Preference for Goods No
Domestic Preference for Works, if applicable: No
etroactive financing No
Advance procurement. No
xplain briefly the Procurement Monitoring System:
All procurement related documentation that requires IDA's prior review would be cleared b
rocurement Accredited Staff (PAS) and relevant technical staff. Packages above mandatory review
thresholds would be reviewed by the RPA The Borrower would maintain complete procurement files,
especially for the contracts subject to Post-review, which would be reviewed by IDA's supervision
missions. The Procurement Plan would be updated annually. Procurement information would be
ecorded by the Borrower and submitted to the IDA as part of the quarterly and annual progress reports
rhis information would include: revised cost estimates for the different contracts; revised timing o
rocurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for individual
ontracts A Management Information System (MIS), with a procurement module would help the PCU
onitor all procurement information
Co-financing: Yes
Section 4. Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement
in the Project
Name: Yingwei Wu         Ext. 35291
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement. A procurement accredited staff
located in Georgia will be the PAS for procurement implementation
- 49 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
1.1 Country Issues
1) The key country financial management fiduciary issues for Georgia are:
a) Problems with Government counterpart funding (GCF), which in some cases have
adverse effect on project implementation. MoF currently prefers not to disburse in advance,
but rather after the expenses are already incurred by PIUs. As a result, for those categories
which are less than 100% financed by credit proceeds, PIUs can pay contractors (suppliers,
consultants) only percentage of the contract which is eligible for Bank financing, and pay
remaining balance after counterpart funds are received from MoF (often with certain delay).
GSIF is also significantly affected by problems with GCF. Of GEL 1,535,000 requested by
GSIF from MoF in FY 2002, only GEL 756,000 were actually paid by MoF.
b) Insufficient availability to PIUs of training on World Bank financial management and
disbursement procedures, and also in IFRS, which results in otherwise avoidable deficiencies
in the quality of financial management arrangements in PIUs.
c) Weak banking system.
d) All projects use traditional disbursement methods rather than PMR-based disbursement.
The insufficient quality of FM capacity in the country does not yet allow transition to
PMR-based disbursement.
e) Limited availability of qualified audit firms in the country.
2) The latest Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) was conducted in May
- June 2002 and updated in February 2003, however, the report has not yet been finalized and
made public.
3) In May 2002 World Bank financial management team performed assessment of a number
of audit firms operating in Georgia. As a result of that assessment two firms (Georgian Audit
& Consulting Company Llc, associated with Deloitte & Touche, Ukraine, and Auditing
Corporation of Georgia Ltd, associated with Grant Thornton Amyot) were fully pre-qualified
to audit World Bank financed projects in Georgia. No firms were conditionally pre-qualified.
However, GSIF will be able to choose any firm from the list of audit firms pre-qualified to
perform audits of World Bank-financed projects in Hub-North region.
4) Other important issues affecting financial management arrangements in all Georgian PIUs
are the following:
a)  Standardized job descriptions for PIU stalf. By the time of GSIF-2 main credit
effectiveness it is expected that the Ministry of Finance will finalize standardized job
- 50 -



descriptions for PIU staff.
b) Reports submitted by PIUs to Georgian authorities. Currently all PCU/PIUs submit
quarterly reports to the MoF on uses of funds in accordance with standard formats and
monthly reports to the Tax Inspection.
c) Standard audit TOR. For all projects in Georgia the Bank recommended to include in the
2001 audit TOR the following paragraph: "It is also desirable that the auditor becomes
familiar with Extract of the Letter of the Chamber of Control of Georgia #01-2/82 dated June
08, 2001 (Attachment   ) and Program of tax Audit of the World Bank Financed Project
Implementation Units (Attachment ), and uses both documents in preparation of audit
program for these assignments." The purpose of this paragraph was to ensure that the auditor,
which might be both a Georgian and a foreign audit firm, is familiar with the requirements of
the regulatory authorities of Georgia.
Tax Program was first included as an annex to 2001 audit TOR by the World Bank financed
Georgian ADPCC as an effort to further pursue CPPR recommendations. Finance Manager of
ADPCC addressed the Deputy Head of the Large Taxpayers' Inspectorate (LTI) with letter on
CoC requirements and CPPR recommendations, and asked him to provide with LTI program
relevant to PIUs for inclusion in audit TOR. This imtiative was considered by the Bank as
potentially useful and the program was recommended for inclusion in the 2001 audit TOR for
other projects implemented in Georgia.
However, it should be noted that although the annual audit of World Bank financed projects
by independent auditors may (and, ideally, should) lessen the work to be carried out during
Chamber of Control and Tax Inspection audits, it can not totally eliminate them. Both
Chamber of Control and Tax Inspection are legally obliged to carry out such annual audits,
and these audits cover 100% of transactions (i.e., they are not sample-based audits).
d) Taxation issues. Government of Georgia clarified it's policy on taxation of Bank-financed
activities and introduced full taxation of all of the Bank-financed projects in accordance with
the local tax legislation. Detailed tax instructions on tax regime applicable to Bank-financed
projects were issued by MoTR in June, 2001. All PCU/PIUs were transferred to the Large
Taxpayers' Inspectorate with a view to streamlining administration and ensuring consistency
across all projects.
e) Standard Disbursement Percentages (SDPs). An Operational Memorandum (OM) issued
by the Bank in June 2001 entitled "Bank Policy on Financing Income Taxes" clarified that it
is the policy of the Bank that the local taxes levied by or in the territory of the borrower on
payments for services provided by consultants and for salaries of staff of PIUs are not eligible
for disbursement under Bank credit. To implement the requirement of the OM, country
specific Standard Disbursement Percentages (SDPs) were established according to the Bank
methodology for calculating SDPs. SDPs are based on estimates of effective legal rates of
local income taxes in Georgia, i.e. on taxes that consultants and PIU staff are legally obliged to
pay, and on estimates of transaction-specific taxes in Georgia associated with consultant
contracts. As a result the following percentages were established for Georgia:
Local consultancy firms, individuals and PIU staff  80%
- 51 -



Foreign consultancy firms and individuals  90%
Eligible Social/Medical Charges           100%
Eligible Social/Medical Charges are those charges that are levied by the employers in
respect to the contracts with the citizens of Georgia (to be consistent with the Bank's
policy according to which Social Charges are eligible for Bank financing only if they
contribute to the future benefits of the individuals).
It should be noted that Bank's policy on not financing income taxes was also extended to the
category of "Works" by the WBTO (due to the fact that local taxation policy is identical for
both financing categories, ie "Works" and "Consultant Services").
It is important to note that the SDPs apply to loans, credits and grants for which invitations to
negotiate are issued on or after March 1, 2002. With respect to the grants, which are not
fornally negotiated, the SDPs apply in respect of legal documents sent to recipients on or after
March 1, 2002.
As an exception to the policy, Bank-funded or Bank-administered grant to "not-for-profit"
entities are not subject to the policy. The exception is justified because these entities carry out
activities consistent with the Bank's mandate; the activities of many not-for-profit entities
would be substantially constrained if they had to rely on counterpart funds to meet any local
tax obligations.
1.2. Strengths and Weaknesses
The significant strengths that provide a basis of reliance on the project financial management
system include: (i) significant experience of GSIF in implementing Bank-financed projects
(first Social Investment Fund project, related PHRD Grant and PPF, and PHRD Grant for the
second SIF project); and (ii) the quality of audit reports issued by GSIF's project auditors for
the last three years (unqualified audit reports for FY1999 and FY 2000 and qualified audit
report for FY 2001, however, the reason for qualification was only the application of cash
basis accounting, which is not in compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS)).
Significant weaknesses are: (i) absence of practical experience in producing of FMRs; (ii)
absence of practical experience in application of IFRS. Thus, regular and detailed project
supervision, including review of quarterly FMRs, will be especially important at the
preparation and early implementation stages of the project.
1.3. Implementing Entity
See Section C4 of PAD.
1.4. Staffing
Financial and Administrative Department (FAD) of GSIF will consist of: (i) the Manager of
FAD, directly subordinate to the Executive Director of GSIF; (ii) the Accountant, subordinate
to the FAD Manager; (ii) the Cashier, subordinate to the FAD Manager; (iii) the Office
- 52 -



Manager, subordinate to the FAD Manager; and (v) Administrative Assistants, subordinate to
the FAD Manager.
1.5. Accounting Policies and Procedures (Financial Manual)
The accounting books and records for the second GSIF projects will be maintained in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards on accrual basis. In order to
ensure proper transition to IFRS, the new comprehensive Financial and Administrative
Procedures Manual has been prepared. This task has been performed by the foreign consultant
financed from the PHRD Grant for the second project.
Project financial statements will be presented in United States dollars.
1.6. Reporting and Monitoring
Project management-oriented Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) will be used for project
monitoring and supervision. Indicative formats of these FMRs have been included as Annexes
to the new Financial and Administrative Procedures Manual, however, they still have to be
agreed upon dunng negotiations and prior to Board presentation.
1.7. Information Systems
The new accounting software - 1 C accounting software - was selected for purchase and
installation. This software package is widely used by other World Bank - financed projects,
and has proved to be capable of providing accurate, timely and sufficiently detailed
information regarding project resources and expenditures, and flexible in terms of production
of the necessary financial reports. Also, 1C accounting software is compatible with the
currently employed in GSIF Management Informnation System, and is expected to be integrated
with it.
It should be noted that as of March 2003 installation of the software and its adaptation to
GSIF needs have yet to be finalized, and GSIF staff is yet to be trained in usage of the new
accounting software.
1.8. Action Plan, if required (agreed with the borrower)
Action required as per results of the     Status offulfillment in March 2003
November 2002 pre-assessment
1. Prepare the new Financial Management Done.
Manual.
2.  Select, install and adapt to GSIF needs The new  accounting software - IC accounting
to enable it to automatically produce the  software - was selected. See section 1.7 "Information
necessary FMRs the new accounting software Systems" above.
(possibly integrated with MIS). Provide
necessary training to the staff how to use this
software.
- 53 -



Develop a plan for continued training of key  The foreign consultant conducted a number of
GSIF personnel throughout the          lectures on accrual accounting, so at the present
implementation period of the new project.  moment the situation in respect of training is not
critical at all. Therefore, it was decided that instead
of preparation of the training plan at this point of
time for the whole life of the new project, GSIF
will assess its training needs on an annual basis
when the project starts and throughout its life.
Clarify with the World Bank Tbilisi Office  GSIF  concluded  a contract with the local
correct treatment of taxes, especially VAT,  consultant, who previously served as an auditor in
and ensure that refund of VAT paid to  the tax inspection and also served in the tax audit
suppliers in respect of the Grant received  department of the audit firm "Audit-Service". The
from KfW is obtained from the Ministry of  contract has been concluded for 2 months, and it is
Finance.                               planned that as a result of this consultancy GSIF
will have a documented report on the taxes it has
to pay, procedures for their calculation and
payment, and procedures for recording the taxes
payable and paid in the accounting records. Also,
GSIF continues consultations with the WB Tbilisi
Office whenever necessary. However, GSIF has
not yet achieved any progress in receipt of VAT
refund from the MoF. The work in this direction
will be continued.
1.9. Supervision Plan.
During project implementation, the Bank will supervise the project's financial management
arrangements in two main ways: (i) review the project's quarterly FMRs and six-monthly
management reports as well as the project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's
management letter; and (ii) during the Bank's supervision missions, review the project's
financial management and disbursement arrangements (including a review of a sample of
SOEs and movements on the Special Account) to ensure compliance with the Bank's
minimum requirements. As required, a Bank-accredited Financial Management Specialist will
assist in the supervision process.
2. Audit Arrangements
2.1. Internal Audit
The new 1C accounting software has been selected, however, it has yet to be installed and
adapted to GSIF needs and staff has to be trained how to use this software.
2.2. External Audit
The audit of the project will be conducted by independent private auditors acceptable to the
Bank and on terms of reference (TOR) acceptable to the Bank. There is a list of audit firms
- 54 -



pre-qualified to conduct audits of World Bank financed projects in HUB-North region, which
is updated regularly, and the standard audit TOR applicable for ECA are updated and officially
approved on an annual basis. The project will choose the auditor from the above-mentioned
list and use the ECA standard audit TOR as a basis for preparation of its own audit TOR,
which is to be cleared with the project FMS annually irregardless of the term of contracts
concluded with the auditors (one year contract or several year contract).
The auditors should be engaged not later than the end of December of the fiscal year to be
audited.
The annual audited project financial statements will be provided to the Bank within six
months,of the end of each fiscal year and also at the closing of the project. The contract for
the audit awarded dunng the first year of project implementation may be extended from
year-to-year with the same auditor, subject to satisfactory perfornance. The cost of the audit
will be financed from the proceeds of the credit.
The following chart identifies the audit reports that will be required to be submitted by GSIF
together with the due date of submission.
Audit Report                             Due Date
Entity (GSIF)                           Since GSIF is not implementing any other projects apart
from the second GSIF project, it is not necessary to produce
separate financial statements for the implementing entity.
Project - includes balance sheet, summary of  Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
sources and uses of fumds, summary of uses of and also at the closing of the project
funds by project components and notes to
financial statements
SOE                                    Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project
Special Account                        Within six months of the end of each fiscal year
and also at the closing of the project
Other (specify)                         None
3. Disbursement Arrangements
Project funds will be initially disbursed based on traditional methods (e.g. replenishment of the
Special Account based on full documentation and/or Statements of Expenditures, direct
payments and Special Commitments.
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
j -^.:'Expenditu'r.Categoy :.  | -'Amount in US$ nillirn.-|             t
1. Micro-projects                        11.30                       72 %
- 55 -



2. Goods                               0.10           100 % of foreign expenditures and
ex-factory; 80% of local expenditures
3. Consultant Services                  1.60          90 % for foreign and 80% for local;
100% eligible social charges
4. Training and Study Tours            0.20                      100 %
5. Incremental Operating Cost           1.60          70% in 2003; 70% in 2004; 60% in
2005; 50% in 2006; and 40% including
social charges
6. Unallocated                         0.20
Total Project Costs                    15.00
Total                                  15.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
Use of Statements of Expenditures:
Withdrawal applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures under: (a) contracts
for goods valued at less than US$ 30,000 each; (b) contracts for works less than US$ 50,000
each; (c) contracts for consulting firms costing less than US$ 100,000 equivalent; (d) contracts
for individual consultants costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent; and (e) training, study tours
and Incremental Operating Costs.
Special account:
Special account:
Special Account will be opened under the second GSIF project in a commercial bank acceptable
to the World Bank before effectiveness. The initial allocation to the special account will be
limited to US$ 500,000. The initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of
US$ 1,000,000 equivalent (about 4 months worth of projected expenditures), once aggregate
disbursements of SDR 5.0 million are reached by submitting the relevant withdrawal
applications.
Replenishment applications should be submitted every month. These applications would be fully
documented, except in the case of disbursements on the basis of Statements of Expenditure
(SOEs). Related documentation in support of SOEs should be retained by the GSIF for at least
one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement
was made. These documents would be available for review by the auditors and the Bank staff.
It is advisable that the GSIF keeps zero balance in local currency transaction accounts, utilizing
the GEL amounts received from conversion of Special Account US$ funds on the same day when
the conversion was executed. Should the GSIF decide to adhere to a different practice, it should
be in any case ensured that, when conversions of Special Account US$ funds into GEL are
executed, the amount converted from Special Account funds and deposited into the local
currency transaction account does not exceed 30 days of budgeted expenditures, as is the agreed
- 56 -



practice on projects in Georgia.
Payments from the local currency transaction account may cover only the eligible percentage for
IDA financing. Any losses due to depreciation or foreign exchange loss on currency
conversions/re-conversions are to be borne by the borrower. This local currency transaction
account is also subject to review by the independent auditors as part of their review/opinion on
the special account.
- 57 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Proqject SchedUleEL-l-fi- 'R,,                   U --Plannec!                  Actu(aIl 
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      24
First Bank mission (identification)             08/01/2001                   04/11/2002
Appraisal mission departure                     03/18/2003                   02/05/2003
Negotiations                                    04/01/2003
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   09/01/2003
Prepared by:
Georgia Social Protection Team
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
-',; L iName .t - -                   -p8j                 7 li-i
Aleksandra Posarac                Program Team Leader/Task Manager
Antonio Lim                       Operations Officer
Tamar Gotsadze                    Operations Officer
Helen Shahriari                   Social Scientist
Hjalte Sederlof                   Consultant
Nicole LaBorde                     Program, Assistant
Eka Duchidze                      Team Assistant
Ekaterina Arsenyeva               Financial Management Specialist
Hannah Koilpillai                  Finance Officer
Ahmed Mohammed Jehani             Lead Counsel
Junko Funahashi                    Senior Counsel
Yingwei Wu                        Procurement Specialist
David Warren                       Peer Reviewer
Kalanidhi Subbarao                Peer Reviewer
Gagik Khachatryan                 Peer Reviewer
- 58 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan (March 2003)
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment Report (November 2002)
Financial Management Capacity Assessment Report (November 2002)
Georgia CPPR (draft February 2003)
C. Other
GSIF Institutional and Organizational Capacity Assessment
GSIF Cost Effectiveness Analysis
Beneficiary Impact Assessments
Report on Financial Management System Improvements in GSIF
Local Self-Government Assessment Report
Quality of Works Guidelines
GSIF Management Information System - Requirements Study Report
Operating Manual
Administrative and Financial Manuals
Environmental Guidelines and Procedures
*Including electronic files
- 59 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
April 10, 2003
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                           disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                    IBRD         IDA                 GEF     Cancel.   Undisb.      Ong   Frm Rev'd
P040555       2003 PRIM HEALTH CARE DEVT                            0 00     20 34                0 00      0 00     2212       0.01      0 00
P044800       2003 FORESTRY                                        0 00      15 67                0 00      0 00     17 07      0 23      0 00
P077368       2003 MUN DEVT 2                                      0 00      19 41                0 00      0 00     20 91       1 62     0 00
P055173       2001 EDUCI(APL)                                       000      2590                 000       000      2226       491       000
P055068       2001 IRRtDRAIN REHAB (APL #1)                        000       27 00                000       0.00     25 57      2 72      000
P054886       2001 ELEC MRKT SUPPORT                               0 00      27 37                0 00      0 00     27 55      -0 52     0 00
P072394       2001 ENERGY TRANSIT INST BLDG                        0 00       9 63                0 00      0 00      8 67       3 08     0 00
P048791       2001 PROT AREAS DEV (GEF)                            0 00       0.00                8 70      0 00      9 04       180       0 00
P040556       2000 ROADS                                            000      4000                 000       000       2113     -1880       000
P064091       2000 AGRIC RES EXT TRG (GEF)                          0 00      0 00                2 48      0 00      2 06       0 76      0 00
P065715       2000 AGR RES EXT & TRG                                0 00      7 60                0 00      0 00      516        3 23      0 00
P052154       1999 STRUCT REF SUPPORT                               000      1650                 000       000       907        9.25      125
P050911       1999 INTG COASTAL MGT                                 000       440                 130       0.00       333       295       027
P056514       1999 TRANS MIN RESTRUCT                               000       230                 000       000       093        080       000
P057813       1999 JUDICIALREFORM                                   000      1340                 000       000        516      -786       000
P060009       1999 INTG'DCOASTALMGMT(GEF)                           000       000                 130        000       1 13      081       031
P008416       1999 ENT REHAB                                        0 00     15 00                0 00       0 00      5 94      517       0 00
P055573       1998 CULTURAL HERITAGE                                0 00      4 49                0 00       0 00      0 07      0 03     -0 05
P039929       1998 SIF                                              0 00     20 00                0 00       0.00      513       0 78      0 00
P008415       1997 AGRIC DEVT                                       0 00     15 00                0 00       0 00      1.09      2 05      0 00
Total:       0 00     284 01              13 78       0 00     213 41      13 01      177
- 60 -



GEORGIA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
Jun 30 - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                        Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval         Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
2000                Bank of Georgia               3.00     0 00    0 00    0.00     1.96    0 00    0.00    0 00
Georgia G&MW Co.               0.00    0.18    000     0.00     0.00    0 18    0.00    0.00
1997/00             Georgia M-F Bank              6 00    0 00     0 00    0.00    2.00    0 00     0 00    0 00
1999/01/02          Ksani                         6.32    2.50     0.00    0.00    0 00    2 50     0 00    0.00
1998                TBC Bank                      3.00    0.00     0.00    0 00    2.00    0.00     0 00    0 00
1998/02             TbilComBank                   0.52    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.52    0 00     0.00    0 00
1999                Telasi                       30.00     0.00    0.00    0 00   30 00    0.00     0.00    0 00
2000
Total Portfolio:        48 84    2.68     0.00     0 00   36.48    2 68     0 00    0 00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                          Loan     Equity     Quasi    Partic
2002               Georgia M-F RI 2                  0.00      0.00      0 72      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:         0 00      0.00      0 72     0.00
- 61 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
:Europe &
POVERTi;ind SOCiAL                                      Central    Low-                             _
Georgia'     Asla  Income      Development diamond*
2001a-
ip6uiabon mid-yeaF (millions)                      5 4   t. 475     2,511               Life expectancy
GNI percapita (Abesnieithod, US$)                 580 -     --960  :430
GNi4(AIIas~etn/ d,US$bdlblons)                    -31 * *:' -930 0.-.1p69-
Average annualgrotvih, 199541
Populabon(%)      -,.                              00        01       1.9
Labiboi f  )       ,                              -1   -     0 6      2.3     GNI                            Gross
per                           pnmary
,Most recent e,stimnate (la;test year available, 1995-01)  - -,               capita        -            enrmllment
Povertj (,f of populaion below national poverty line)  11
Urbanp-opldation (% of total populabon)            57. -- 63,         31
Lfde expectancyat birt(h'years)                    73        69       59
Infant mortality(per 1,000 live birfhs)             17-_* 20:         _76
Child malnutnbon (96 of children under 5)            3 - 8-             -         Access to improved water source
Access toean improved water source (96 of populaton)  76 - -  90       76 -
Illiteracy ( jpopulaion -age 15+)                             3       37
Gross pnmary enrollment (% ofschool-age populaton)  99  .,  102,      96              GeorWa
Male     '                                        99      103      103                 Low-income group
i-emale'                     '                     ~      ~, 98  101  88e
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS                     -      -   ---
1981    1991 _.2000      -_ 2001 .    c       .   _
GDP (iUSS bilions)                                 88*--     3.0      3.2     E       c
Gross.domestc investrivehitGDP           254      28 2     '18 3     '18.7
Exports oifgoods and services/GDP           .     27 8 -  ,23.1.    -2310 .-                 Trade
Gross domestic saving-sGDP                32 8    24 9      - 1.5     2 8 -
Gfts".nationalsavings'/GDP                                 - 5 9  -   71
Current account balance/GDP                          , .    ,45   --,689\
Currefif-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                     - :14       0 9                                Investment
Total debt7GDi' -;   :                                   ' ~ - 53 8  -: '537  savngs
Total debt serwice/exports                                .. 9.6      6 2-..
P,resent value of debUGDP                                - 37 t      35 4
PresentilueofldebVtexports                                 135.5    1219
-           ~~~~Indebtedness
1981-91 1991-01     2000     -2001 *200145'-----Id
(average.annual'growth)'
'GOP-*^-* "       -' - -    '     -19     -25      19-       45- .-.   39             -   Georgia
GDPpr capita     '                -2 6    -2 4     18        44       3 8'                 Low-income grup
Expolsbof,gqoodsand services              10 8    33 2     - 3'3  '   67
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1981     1991     2000      2001     Growth of Investment and GDP(%)
(,f of GDP)                                                                   100
Agnculture                                25 2    28 7      216      22 3
Industry                                  359     372       224      219       50
Manufactunng                            28 7     28 7                         0
Services                                  38 9    34 1      56 0     55 8      -s     9    9    9              01
Pnvate consumption                        55 0    65 6      90 1     87 9     -100
General govemment consumpbon              12 3     9 5       8 4      9 3                    rSDI        GOP
Imports of goods and services                     31 1      398      389 9                   G       -  G   P
1981-91 1991-01      2000     2001      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                         16      -12 0      8 2     so
Industry                                          12 2       5 3      6 7     40
Manufactunng                                      3 2       3 0      4 0
Services                                          25 0       1 5      3 7     20
Pnvate consumption                                 2 2     -13 8     -17 2     o               98
General govemment consumption                      68      -19 7     -13 9    -2
Gross domestic investment                          -9 5    -22 8      8 3            -     Exoarts    0-lnqports
Imports of goods and services                      7 6      4 4       -1 2     _
Note 2001 data are prelinnary eslmates
The diamDnds show tour key indicators in the country (in bold) coffmpared with its income-group average. It data are nismng, the diamornd wit be incorprIte
- 62 -



Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1981    1991      2000     2001     InflaUon (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                    200
Consumer pnces                                     78 5      4 0      4 7     150
Implicit GDP deflator                      3 7     62 1      4 2      5 3     *o-
Government finance                                                             so
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                            o                 z
Current revenue                                    32 4      151      16 5            9t   97    98   99   0o    01
Cufrent budget balance                             -1 8      -3 0      04            -   GOP deflator  --CPl
Overall surplusideficit                           -32 7      -4 5     -1 4                 G
TRADE
(US$Smillions)                            1981    1991      2000     2001      Export and Import levels (USS mill)
Total exports (fob)                                          528      496     1,S00
Black metal                                                  34       30
Tea                                                          85       62
Manufactures                                                10               1.00.
Total imports (cif)                                          937      954
Food13                                                               14        0
Fuel and energy                                             166      176
Capital goods                                               246      183        o
Export pnce index (1995=100)                                  84       95           95   go   97  93   59   o    o
Import pnce index (1995=100)                                 101      105                 8 E>orts      *Inorrts
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                     83       90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                            1981    1991      2000     2001      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and servces                                1,044     999       0
Imports of goods and semces                                 1,343    1,352
Resource balance                                            -299      -353
Net income                                                    1 3       -5
Net current transfers                                        120      136
Current account balance                                     -166      -221     --i
Financing items (net)                                        169      254
Changes in net reserves                                       -3       -33
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS millions)                       110      161
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)                2 17E-6       2 0      2 1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1981    1991      2000     2001
(USS millions)                                                                 Composition of 2001 debt (USS m Ill)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed                        1,638    1.713
IBRD                                                         0        0                     G 60
IDA                                                        347      396                F ss
Total debt service                                           118        77
IBRD                                                         0                       .
IDA3                                                                  3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                             52       58
Official creditors                                           -3      64        CE790                     - C287
Pnvate creditors                                            26        13
Foreign direct investment                                  153       96
Portfolio equity                                             0         0    |.                       125
World Bank program
Commitments                                                 48       90      A- IBRD                   E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                               18       63      B - IDA  D - Oer mutlatseat F - Pnvate
Pnrcipal repayments                                          0         0     C - IMF                    G - Short-term
Net flows                                                   18       63
Interest payments                                            3         3
Net transfers                                               15       61
tJevelopment Economics                                                                                        9l23102
- 63 -



IL            a.~~~~~~~~~~~r
l Uj
I  a  
>      , 0 7 . 7 7 X  1 1   X>  8 C
CO)0
-4~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~C
z _ R _~~~~~~~ i~     H     O   0
0.0
__   __ mH D"HI
W          ~~~~~~~P           -ne
W n | X w n |~~~~~~~~~~~



Additional Annex 12: Training
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
Modules                                                                     Days
I. GSIF Intemal Staff Training
I. A. GSIF Intemal Staff Training                                                  62
1. Local Development                                                               12
a. Social Management                                             5
b. LSG law                                                       3
c. Participatory Local Planning                                  4
2. Study cases for MPs Design concepts and processes                               12
a. Elaboration of TORs                                           1.5
Scope of works                                                0.5
Products and timing                                           0.5
Norms and specifications                                      0.5
a. Design of Vertical infrastructures                             3
b. Design of Horizontal infrastructures                           3
c. Training project.                                              3
3. Study cases for MPs Appraisal concepts and processes                            11
Verification of criteria and requirements                         1
a. Eligibility criteria                                           1
b. Institutional requirements                                    0.5
c. Social requirements                                            1
d. Technical criteria                                             1
Analysis of alternatives                                          1
e. Environmental criteria                                         1
f. Economic Criteria                                              1
fI. Cost-Efficiency                                               1
f2. Cost - Benefits                                               1
Cut-off Lines and MP Indicators                                  1.5
4. Study of cases for Procurement                                                   7
Procedures of Training                                                           1.5
Procedures of MP Design                                                           2
Procedures of MP Civil Works                                                      2
Model of Contracts                                                                1
Guarantees                                                                       0.5
-65 -



5. Study of cases for Follow Up                                                 7
Procedures for Installment Site                                               1
Procedures for progress payments                                                2
Procedures for Change of Orders                                                 1
Procedures for Preliminary Handover                                             1
Procedure for Final Handover                                                    1
Procedure for MP Suspension                                                     1
6. Information System                                                           5
General concepts                                                                1
Data register, integrity and reliability                                        1
Reports                                                                         2
MIS                                                                             1
7. Management and Planning                                                      8
Definition of Management by Objectives                                          I
Program Goals and objectives                                                   0.5
Investments                                                                     1
Institutional strengthening                                                    0.5
Budgeting                                                                       1
Operational planning                                                            0.5
Key Performance Indicators                                                      1
Institutional performance indicators                                             1
Global, by Region, by Head of districts                                         0.5
Local development indicators                                                     1
1. B. GSIF Internal Staff Operational Training
1. Operational Manual Training                                                  90
a. Procedures, norms and mechanisms of social management                       60
b. Functions and responsibililies                                             30
1. C. GSIF Internal Staff Study Tour (Three SIF countries with decentralization
experience will be selected by GSIF and WB Task Manager)
1. Study Tour                                                                   90
a. Procedures, norms and mechanism used.                                       60
b. Functions and responsibilities.                                             30
I. D. GSIF Internal Staff Study Office Software (Excel, Word, Power Point)
1. Office Software Training                                                     60
a. Excel, Word and Power Point                                                 60
- 66 -



II. Training for Qualified NGOs, Firms, and Individuals                   iDays
II.A Training                                                                    6
1. Local Development                                                             2
a Social Management
b. LSG law
c. Participatory Local Planning
2. MP Profile requirements                                                        1
a. Concepts
b. Technical requirements
3. Overview of MP Cycle                                                          2
a. Design
b. Appraisal
c. Follow - UpD
4. Procurement                                                                    1
Ill. Training to community Development Committee and LSGs                  Days
III.A Local Development Plan
|Local Development Plan Process
NGO selected by District                                               90
III.B     Training workshops GSIF process                                        5,400
GSIF, LSG CDC workshop of TOR for Design and NGO Procurement Services  270
GSIF, LSG, CDC and Design Provider workshop for Design proposal       270
GSIF, LSG, CDC and Trainer Provider (Community Development) planning
workshop                                                              270
GSIF, LSG, CDC and Design Provider workshop for final Design          270
GSIF, LSG TS, CDC Appraisal workshop                                  270
GSIF, LSG, CDC workshop for Procurement of Civil works and Supervisor  270
GSIF, LSG, CDC, and Supervisor workshop (Rules, procedures, functions,
SAW, PHO, FHO)                                                        270
GSIF, LSG, CDC, Executor and Supervisor workshop for Installment Site
(Rules, procedures, functions)                                         270
Training on Community Development completed                           1350
GSIF, LSG, CDC Procurement workshop for NGO Provider                   270
GSIF, LSG, CDC and interested community members workshop for
Procurement of Micro project Management                                270
Training on Micro Project Management completed.                       1350
III.C     Community Maintenance Training                                        1350
1350
III.C     Micro-project Management Training                                     1350
- 67 -



Additional Annex 13: Microproject Typologies
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
1.    Social Infrastructure
a. rehabilitation of community level health centers;
b. rehabilitation, including furniture and equipment, of pre-school facilities, primary and
secondary schools, special schools (for physically or mentally handicapped children);
c. establishment of social work and care centers, establishment and rehabilitation of
community-based centers for placement of children deprived of parental care, old age
homes, centers for homeless children and institutionalized persons; and
d. rehabilitation of rural community centers.
2.    Economic Infrastructure
a. rehabilitation and construction of potable water networks: supply lines, distribution
networks, source development, and pumping stations;
b. rehabilitation of local level irrigation networks;
c. rehabilitation of village or neighborhood roads, access roads to isolated villages, access
roads to agricultural lands and farms (including bridges, drainage, culverts, retaining
walls, etc.);
d. rehabilitation and construction of energy-generating and distributing micro-projects for
small and isolated communities (micro hydro-power stations based on irrigation channels
and water pipelines, bio-energy plants, gas supply, solar power and distribution); and
e. rehabilitation of telegraph / telephone lines, TV towers for isolated villages.
f. rehabilitation and expansion of sewage networks, and pumping stations;
g. collection and transport of solid and liquid waste;
h. rehabilitation of micro-dams;
i. environmental improvement and rehabilitation of degraded towns and villages through
tree planting and clean up
j. erosion control activity (tree planting, terracing, drainage canals), not on private land.
- 68 -



Additional Annex 14: Microproject Cycle
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
=     S-eps   ;-;.= --r-RLeadfiagency-.r.  Gerinci          ;o    I t - in  l _ h Acion=
.,-pHticipan s-      i  .
Selection of inutial  GSIF                                  Poverty cnteria applied to
districts            Implementing                           peri-urban areas, rural towns
partners                                and villages
Selection of local self- GSIF                               Key informants             The poorest LSGs in a distnct
govemments (LSGs),   Implementing partners                                             are identified
first phase
Selection of LSG,    GSIF                 Implementing      Rapid assessments           Poorest LSGs selected in first
second phase                              partners                                     phase are assessed and three are
selected
Community            Implementing         CDC/Communities    Elaboration of community   A CDP is developed for all
development planning  partners            GSIF               development plan (CDP)     communities in an LSG
CDC is established
Advocacy training in  Implementing partners CDC/communities                             All communities I LSG are
communities                               GSIF                                         targeted
Note this program
runs through the
micro-project cycle
LSG institution buildin Implementing partners LSGs           Training in law, budgeting,  All LSGs in a district are invited
Note: this program                        GSIF               accounting, asset management, to participate
runs through the                                             participatory management
micro-project cycle                                          _
Consolidation of CDPs Implementing        LSG                LSG and communities        LSG development plan is a
into an LSG          partners             CDC/Communities    determine jointly investment  multi-year investment plan
development plan                                             prionties in LSG
Micro-project proposed GSIF               Communities                                   Proposed mucro-project is
for GSIF financing                        LSG                                           selected jointly by
LSG/communities from the
consolidated plan; may be from
one or more communities; one or
more projects may be presented,
depending on how LSG and
communities decide to use
available funds
Micro-project proposed GSIF               Communities                                   Where LSGs are inoperative,
for GSIF financing                                                                      communities would present
(alternative)                                                                           micro-projects based on
community plans
Micro-project appraisal GSIF              GSIF               Desk appraisal             Proposal accepted or rejected;
(I)                                                                                     LSG informed of decision and
reason for rejection If proposal is
rejected, GSIF detenmines need
for, and provide, TA to improve
proposal, or new micro-project
proposal is submitted
Micro-project appraisal GSIF              CDC/communities    Field-level appraisal;
(2)                                                          community development
committee (CDC) is formed;
Micro-project        GSIF                 CDC                Discussion of project proposal TORs for design company
preparation (I)                                              with CDC                   prepared and request for bids
Preparation of TORs for design launched, in small projects,
company                     design and construction may be
- 69 -



done by the same company
Micro-project       GSIF                 CDC               Competitive selection of design Design company selected and
preparation (2)                                            company based on          contract signed
pre-qualification
Micro-project       GSIF                 CDC/conmunities Design accepted; review of  At this stage, micro-project may
preparation (3)                                            design                    prove to be unaffordable -
design adjusted or micro-project
Determination of commurnty  dropped; another micro-project
contribution amount and form  may be selected and process
repeated
Procurement         GSIF                 CDC               Competitive selection of  The community (through the
construction company      CDC) would participate in all
phases of identify,ing and
selecting a contractor and/or a
supplier; in small works,
community contracting would be
undertaken
Implementation      GSIF                 CDC               Momtor progress of works  Monitoring would be undertaken
Design firm or                              by design firm in cases where
independent                                  separate design firm is used; and
supervisor                                  by independent supervisor in
case of smaller contracts that
combine design and construction
Preliminary handover  GSIF               CDC               Inspection of completed work
Community
LSG
After completion of  GSIF                Community         Social and technical monitonng This monitonng will be done
micro-project                            LSG                                         about twice a year over a
Implementing                                 two-year penod
partners
- 70 -



Additional Annex 15- Project Implementation Plan
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
I Q1 I Q2 la3 IQ4 qS Q6 07 QB 109 IQ10 Q11 Q12 Q'i3 Q14Q1
I. Preparation Phase
1 Establishment of Fund
a Issue Decree establishing GSIF II
b Establishment of GSIF Board
c Review and validate design, appraisal and follow-up methodologies
d Finalization of Operating Manual
e Finalization of other Manuals and Handbooks
fApproval of Manuals by GSIF Board
p Establishment of a fully operational MIS  ____
h Draft TORs for staff
iDetermine salary scale
IReach agreements with co-financiers
k Open Special Account and Deposit Government counterpart
funds
2 Procurement of Office Equipment
a Computers
3 Establishment of GSIF II Executive Office
a Appointment of Managing Director
b Appointment of GSIF department and unit heads
c Development of departmental strategies and action plans
d Appointment/recruitment of technical and support staff
4 Staff training
a Local Development
b Study Cases for MPs design concepts and processes
c Study Cases for MPs Appraisal concepts and processes
d Study Cases for Procurement Design, Civil Work,
Supervision and Training
e Study Cases for Follow - Up
fInformation System concepts, exploitation and MIS
gManagement and Planning, Key Performance Indicators,
and Fund Rising Strategies and elaboration of proposals
h Operational Manual
,Office Software
I Designer, administrator and security (gnly ISD personnel)                 _-        _
k Study Tour (only selected Manasers and Coordinators)
tt tmplementatlon Phase
1. MIcro-pro ectdevelopment
a District-level outreach
b LSG mapping/needs assessment
c Community development planning
d Selection of micro-projects
e Implementation of micro-projects
2. Community mobilization
a Establishment of community development committees (CDC)
b Training of CDCs in m-p cycle
3 Advocacy
a Training of CDC/communities in advocacy skills
3. Local self-g overnment ca pacity building
a Agree on partnership arrangement with USAID
b Draft TORs
c Implementation
3. Monitorlng and evaluation                                 _             t
a WB launch mission
b Mid-term review
c Beneficiary Assessment and Social Impact
d Procurement and technical audits                                _      L       -_
e Quarterl reports
fAnnual reports
g Annual financial audit
h Staff performance evaluations                                               -       -        - _              -
iAnnual budgets                                              =_
- 71 -



Additional Annex 16: Management Information System
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
In order to enable the taking of informed decisions to achieve GSIF institutional goals more
adequately, improve targeting strategies and assess the effectiveness of micro-projects, GSIF will
need an effective MIS which provides integrated and complete information. In the light of the
changes that GSIF will be undergoing, the current Management Information System will be
redesigned to allow necessary information to be provided to the GSIF, government and
participating donors.  The new structure of MIS need to be designed and implemented
considering the new information requirements based on the new organizational structure,
operational policies and procedures. The new MIS should include three main components:
a     An improved micro-project monitoring system that will effectively track project progress.
The system should contain detailed and integrated data on each phase of implementation, which
is required to monitor, manage and evaluate the micro-projects. It would monitor micro-project
implementation against specific performance indicators through consolidated reports, after
identification of quantifiable micro-project objectives and selection of appropriate indicators.
a     A Financial and Accounting System on accrual basis, which can be integrated with the
micro-project monitoring system. This system should provide the necessary data to the other
systems in order to provide a view of the complete financial figures, and allow comparison of
expenditures against targets.
o     A new Management Information System    built on top of the operating systems
(micro-project monitoring system and financial system), to give management an appropriate level
of detail and control over cost, quality and quantity of micro-projects being implemented, and to
enable timely, informed and effective decisions. This system should collect required data from
the operating systems, consolidate them in a common database which would be designed to fit
reporting and analysis needs. It should also include a new technology reporting and analysis tool
which would allow the required reports to be generated automatically and offer the users easy
access to the inforrnation they need and, moreover, permit them to analyze that information from
different perspectives
The effective design of the MIS and the micro-project monitoring systems, requires detailed
definition of GSIF's new structure, operational policies, business processes and procedures,
since the new information requirements and business needs must be well understood before these
systems are designed and implemented.
- 72 -



# nyimtf e  me R*bl                                                      P4smibe       TirreSdwe
_                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~status_            _
_m       Ifiin ofGSIFgods anldjecm s  e nu*mab1tsrs tet apct     DoEw   cF,z Ekms     ?vrch 20B
CbmTrrIbmt effinm2a resm=
lkirficato of t acirvitxes wdrmm i dtoh b dtifx e m sSnc~qiiu t to a  hijpxtx  CIF VDN1ms  NMchf3X-
&aDnfu ctidtszcn                                                                      Apnl 7,2003
-             iffica crbaliaxt
- Efimniamofprct aguhcri slnlie
- EDfiomf rdesand rxxhfies; d naIltnoft1ical assr
- AsgicfUgetsnt~
- Icficanbcf fT rnasnLtucr
- Rfmcfpoeplan
- Tirmgof tlmmnuiTrs (tiamingil begn mt  anrs d I cinftm dizig the inrplenarln)
2. Req*uent AzuIAs (f0 Mtoje tu Niixtaam tW MS)
_I&hficafbn ofu  iredmed  d t CIIFguxs and 1bectis a" lts u                    h
MS prce I=n NE co    7-10ApIl
DlTa}c of aDTer ard re4ured nqx rdw gma Xr-Ak                                          I-84
Idkhficam ofUt ky hsey   ptes and ntt &   data fa eadi on
In proces tmm        7-IOApil
ldtinnofdatartqretoproAvhefcbircn and i                                 Pj Tcmndyst  21-30 A1iI
Idtficatci of ky frnce nlcat                                            IO   Ats, Po
In p_                m  7-1OAonl
iDrcFnut ofaia moi Irepwu ildata flcwaad prcm  mutDomrTiHbmn) *thm te CEIF.            1-9Mey
I:hht         12-IIVh
bFiratbn cf 9>reim1s azd ais &un16 
nhnX
daficuafic of s=a t rcp nsad srpcies                                                   21 a
Ddntion of dada omxxslup.                              AnaW~~~~~~h  12-16 May
P_nto cfla rmris analyms XdoaDt                                            Aig19-23 Nh
3 Dgn(forNIcnroed MIiti   seteanmUMLS)
Dmgr of a dt*ax toD ittor  cdIeicRn stl4W ardprrgciof NVa                EBasVpI)q    12-16 Nby
DgiQcfa rtak to s%at U cunn of iab enp ds p c f ocd   pr ar%                           19-2 Miy
lZgp cbta gLobt y resolubcn mnMes / cdcp data vAdalihc nde;              EB D ; lhEdq-  21-3O hy
Dgrx ef prg, tc fmhtate clata oflctcn,prc=r g occmnncabcn irdmEh pregaMotn. b  Dsg-, ai  26Mi)16 h
Prepabcn of dwabox " apphcabicn deagi dorut                              D sgx, DU-4   16-20 J
- 73 -



Additional Annex 17: Decentralization
GEORGIA: SECOND SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND PROJECT
(This summary is drawn from the PAD of the second Municipal Development and Decentralization Project and from
Local Government Reform Initiative Baseline Assessment of Georgia, July 2001, prepared by the Urban Institute for
USAID.)
To address weaknesses in the institutional and policy environment, the Government of Georgia
(GOG) developed, and largely implemented, a program to support decentralization beginning in
the late 1990s. The legal basis for government operations was set out in an Organic Law on
Local Self-Government and Government that went into effect in October 1997. Thus,
government in Georgia has four levels:
o     Level One: village, agglomeration of villages, village/town, and city (966 entities). The
term "local self-government (LSG)" is applicable only in this first level of government - the
legislative body (city council) is elected by the citizens, and the executive (mayor) is then elected
from the council. The executive is also the chair of the council.
D     Level Two: rayon or district (60) and republican or special status city (7). "Local
governments (LG)" (as distinct from "local self-governments") are seen at this second level with
elected legislative bodies, but with the mayor appointed by the president of Georgia.
o     Level Three: region (12). There are nine regions, plus the capital city, Tbilisi, and two
autonomous republics: Abkhazeti and Ajara. The heads of the nine regions are governors who
are appointed by the president. The governors are powerful, but their position is purely
administrative because the regions do not have independent budgets and they are not responsible
for any service delivery. Even though Tbilisi enjoys the status of region (as well as special status
city), it does not have a governor, because the law On the Capital of Georgia, Tbilisi, specifies
that it be managed by a directly elected city council. Abkhazeti is a separatist autonomous
republic, and governed by an elected president, whose legitimacy is not recognized by Georgia.
Ajara has not claimed independence from Georgia, but does not have a governor appointed by
the president of Georgia. It is governed by an elected chair of the supreme council of Ajara.
0     Level Four: the State.
Major achievements of decentralization to date include the first elections of LGs, better
delimitation of responsibilities among different levels of government, and the imposition of
greater fiscal accountability. Although this first stage of decentralization was an important step
forward, much work remains to be done, especially in the following areas:
Inadequate legal and fiscal framework for decentralization: The current legislation
leaves serious ambiguities in: (i) the assignment of governmental responsibilities to either
the LSGs or the LGs, including those for the delivery of basic local utility services and
health, education and culture; (ii) the transfer of state-owned properties to the new local
government units, (iii) the structure of inter-governmental fiscal relations; (iv) the
procedures for local government budgetary management; and (v) the assignment of
- 74 -



revenue sources consistent with expenditure responsibilities together with the ability to
improve collection at the local level.
Deteriorating local services: A poor policy environment, uncertain ownership rights and
responsibilities, more than ten years of poor maintenance, little or no capital investment,
and inadequate oversight by local governments, due to weak capacity, have all
contributed to the continued erosion in local utilities and provision of local services. In
most parts of the country, water is provided for only a few hours several times a week,
solid waste collection is erratic, roads are neither repaired nor maintained and natural gas
and public transport have largely disappeared.
Absence of long-term financing for local capital needs. A critical issue for the
improvement of delivery of local services to the population are the difficulties local
governments and local utilities encounter in obtaining financing for capital repairs. Lack
of liquidity in the banking sector and the risky financial environment means long-term
financing is not available from private sector sources. The creation of a Municipal
Development Fund (MDF) under the first Municipal development and Decentralization
Project (MDDP I) was an important step towards improving access to financing for
capitalized repairs at the local level.
Weak local capacity. Since the first State Program "On the Municipal Development of
Georgia" was adopted in mid-1 997, increasing responsibilities have been assigned to the
LG and LSG levels. However, both generally lack the managerial and financial capacity
to meet their responsibilities because of limited technical and financial resources,
inexperienced staff and a constantly changing legal and financial environment.
Poor financial accountability. Although substantial improvements were made in local
government reporting as the result of work on the MDDP I and an earlier IDF grant on
Decentralization and Municipal Management, additional work is needed. LGs have not
yet moved to internationally acceptable accounting systems, thus the quality of
information is inadequate for sound financial management and for government oversight.
Changes in the legal framework mean the current reporting system needs to be updated,
made useful for all government and other users, streamlined and extended to the LSGs.
Limited local resource mobilization. Local governments' revenues are extremely low,
averaging US$18 per capita in 2000 in eleven of the twelve local governments (excluding
Tbilisi) participating in the MDDP I. Of this total, about 23% comes from the shared
income tax with an additional 20% from the combined land and property taxes. A review
of six local governments not participating in the MDDP I found that capital expenditures
were less than 2 percent of ordinary income. Maintenance of local assets is extremely
low in proportion to total expenditures and, unless the trend is changed, local government
units will be unable to maintain assets or to make capitalized repairs. Collection rates for
utilities such as water remain extremely low, usually below 5 percent.
- 75 -



The Government of Georgia's Municipal Development and Decentralization Strategy
In recognition of the need for further clarification of the rights and responsibilities of local
governments and local self-governments in order to successfully decentralize, the GOG adopted
the "State Program for the Second Stage of Georgia's Municipal Development", for the period
2000-2005 in March 2000. This program lays out an ambitious agenda to strengthen and
improve the legal framework by: (i) devolving responsibility for local utility services (water
supply and sewerage, local transport, solid waste collection and disposal, energy distribution,
etc.) previously assumed by the LGs to the lower-level LSGs, (ii) assigning exclusive
responsibility for education, health, and culture to the LGs; (iii) confirming the autonomy of
LSGs in matters of budget planning and management, (iv) unambiguously assigning local taxes
and other sources of revenue to LSGs; and (v) the transfer of assets to LSGs.
The first key step in the new State .Program was amendment of the Organic Law on Local
Self-Government to reflect the objectives outlined above. The amendment was adopted in
August 2001, but will only become effective after the local elections currently scheduled for June
2002 are held. Actual implementation will also depend on the expeditious adoption of three
complementary laws currently under review by the GOG that will regulate: (i) the mechanisms of
inter-governmental fiscal transfers; (ii) the assignment of former State-owned property to local
government units; and (iii) the procedures of local government budgetary management.
While the new legislation, in its principles, represents an important and positive step forward, it
still leaves open a variety of issues which, if not properly addressed, could prevent the local
government system from functioning as expected. Worse, the new legislation could lead,
especially in smaller local self-governments, to a significant deterioration in the quality of
delivery of basic municipal services to the population, in general, and its poorer segments, in
particular. Two broad categories of potential problems relate to the evolving framework:
The development, adoption or effectiveness of key pieces of legislation (including the
Amendment to the Organic Law on Local Self Government and the necessary
complementary laws) may be delayed.
New legislation may be developed that is not fully consistent with the principles of sound
decentralization (for example, by fragmenting local utilities into units that are too small to
operate effectively, failing to provide appropriate revenue sources or the ability to improve
collections).
The reform effort undertaken by the GOG has benefited extensively from support provided by
USAID through its 'Local Government Reform Initiative'. Working groups established under
this initiative - which also include MDDP I staff - are instrumental in providing critical advice
and recommendations on these matters to the GOG. The effectiveness of technical assistance
contemplated under a second MDDP project will depend on close coordination with all other
donors active in this area in order to maximize benefits, avoid unnecessary and costly overlaps,
and prevent unwarranted confusion in policy matters. The donors have established a monthly
rotating meeting, which the project staff also participates in, to share experience and information
and this coordination has been helpful.
- 76 -



3. Sector issues to be addressed by MDDP II:
MDDP II would support the second stage of the GOG's decentralization and municipal
development program. The project would address a selected number of key priorities, which are
critical to successful decentralization and which fall into two broad categories:
Policy framework. The project would complement work already under way by other
donors to support the evolution of a sound legal and policy framework for
decentralization. Key areas to be supported by the project include: developing national
criteria for local borrowing; improving LG financial accountability; providing clear and
predictable revenue sources and improving the ability to collect those revenues; assessing
the local utility sector and establishing sensible ownership structures; and, regulatory
responsibilities for longer-term sustainability.
Improved performance of LGUs. The first project linked demonstrable improvements in
local government performance to access to the investment financing; the second project
would build on this successful approach. LGs will develop action plans to improve their
financial situation, administrative capacity, and accountability. The project will provide
assistance to implement improvements in financial management (reporting and
accounting systems), increase accountability and community involvement (budget
hearings and improved reporting), increase revenues (local taxes and fees), and
rationalize local administrative structures. It will also assist in the general increase in
capacity of LGs to deliver services by improving the functioning of local utilities. This
assistance should improve the overall performance of LGs and improve the number of
LGs able to meet objective creditworthiness criteria and qualify for financing for
investment projects.
Under the MDDP I, local governments had to first identify feasible investments and then
demonstrate their capacity to repay the funds borrowed. The latter, in turn, required improved
revenue collection, as well as better budgeting and financial management. As a result, the
cumulative debt capacity of the 12 participating LGs increased about 2.5 times between 1998 and
2000, or by more than GEL 21.0 million. Budgetary income likewise increased by 30% for the
same period. Concurrently, budgetary expenditure was trimmed by eliminating redundant or
ineffective staff positions, transforming administrative units into financially autonomous entities,
and introducing competitive procurement procedures. Most of the funds under the MDDP I have
been fully committed and will be disbursed before the end of the project, in December 2002.
The supply of new financial resources to MDF will allow it to maintain the momentum of the
financial improvement drive. In the first phase of the new project, the MDF will primarily
finance investments that were already identified and evaluated under MDDP I but could not be
financed due to shortage of resources. The borrowers for these investments will be 'Special
Status' (Republican) cities that have a demonstrated borrowing capacity and whose finances,
because of the cities' special status, will be minimally affected by the outcome of the ongoing
local govermment reform. In a second phase, MDDP II will expand its market. It will reach out to
those lower-level local self-government units that will have improved their financial and
management capacity as a result of the technical assistance provided by the project.
- 77 -



- 78 -



AO0                     4I                      42                    43                     44                     45                      467
GEORGIA
BUILT-UP URBAN AREA
RUSSIAN   FEDERATION                                     0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SELECTED CITIES
     AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC CENTERS
    NATIONAL CAPITAL
-*-- , RIVERS
GLACIER AREAS
'i.__ _  MAIN ROADS
J.                                                                                       IZ-.--.-.  RAILROADS          43 -
- - - - AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC BOUNDARIES
T;_od,kok            --      INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
H            Schkh.                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~RUSSIAN
Sea;                                                                                                                                         F EDERATIN
> ERBLW.a (s   S    The hauosnDdansolors, dieMoompaionad any oiTher In fEomnat ,o _o~>n)
>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dan onKE in mopV do note, .           sn on ies mpSoto n=o World Bank  I                       \                              AZERBA NIJANS
-4                                            d                          Bnend n n ordocc.ptotc of sank boandon  or                               /
1 isYRlANAR A RREP ' RQXISLAMIC REP OF IRAN            42                      43                      4d                      4s-                        6   









Report No.:        25470  GE
Type:     PAD



