Report No. PID10891
Project Name                     GEORGIA-GEORGIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND II
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           Social Assistance
Project ID                       GEPE74361
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA
Implementing Agency
Address GEORGIA SIF
Address: 39A, Chavchavadze Ave.
11th Floor, Tbilisi, 380062 P.O. Box #112,
380079
Contact Person: Shalva Kokochashvili
Tel: 995-32-23-07-79-
Fax: 995-32-23-01-03
Email: skokochashvili@gsif.ge
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                January 25, 2002
Projected Appraisal Date         November 30, 2002
Projected Board Date             April 15, 2003
1. Country and Sector Background
Nearly 43 percent of the population in Georgia is poor when measured by
the official poverty line. The main correlates of poverty are employment
status and ownership of productive assets. Urban poverty is more
widespread, depper and more severe than rural poverty. Regional
differences in living standards vary widely, with the incidence of poverty
in the poorest regions being several times that in richer areas.
Vulnerability to poverty is high - while the poverty rate is relatively
stable, it is estimated that some 80 percent of the poor escaping poverty
over the course of a year. Projections of poverty rates under different
growth scenarios reveal that economic growth can have a big impact on
poverty, but this impact is adversely affected by rising inequality.
Poverty is also very sensitive to a slowdown in growth.The formal social
protection system in Georgia comprises three main cash benefits - social
assistance, pensions and unemployment benefits. Adverse economic
developments over the past few years have reduced the formal safety net to
a bare minimum. An extensive informal safety net has emerged in its
place. However, its coverage is limited, and many families slip through
the cracks. Despite severe fiscal constraints, a formal safety net can
play an important role in poverty alleviationThe Government recognizes the
need to strengthen mechanisms that address population groups at risk. The
World Bank has been asked to participate in developing an affordable
formal safety net that not only provides protection, but also offers a
springboard out of poverty. There is increased interest in introducing
strategies that link poverty relief with social services, including in
particular stronger community-based services, exploring the positive role
that NGOs can play in poverty alleviation, and raising living standards in
communities. There is also increased recognition of the importance of



entrepeneurship and self-employment in creating new economic opportunities
and stimulating privatization and economic development.
2. Objectives
The development objective of the Second Georgia Social Investment Fund
Project (GSIF II) is to raise living standards among low-income
communities in Georgia. GSIF II will achieve this objective by (i)
promoting active citizenship participation in the implementation of
sustainable community-level micro-projects and building capacity for
community action and self-help in addressing local socio-economic
problems; and (ii) introducing local governments to the participatory
development process.    This involves a shift in the emphasis of GSIF
interventions from financing micro-projects to using micro-projects as a
means to activate and empower communities. A micro-project would no
longer be viewed primarily as a construction activity for producing or
rehabilitating socio-economic infrastructure. Instead, it would be more
comprehensive, consisting of a package of interrelated elements aimed at
(i) implementing a project that the community will take ownership of; and
(ii) empowering communities to become self-reliant.It also involves a
shift in the relationship between local government and its constituency.
Where communities become empowered, demand for participation grows, and
public authorities become more accountable for their performance.
Increasingly this will require the introduction of participatory
approaches in the way local government addresses local issues. Only
through community empowerment and participatory management can the
financial and human resource constraints to raising living standards in
poor communities.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA brings to bear its global experience in helping design and implement
social fund operations that strengthen community action and local
governance. In addition, this project will introduce modern standards for
construction and repair that are expected to form a basis for new national
standards to replace the old Soviet ones.
4. Description
The project will have two components: (a) community development; and (b)
project management. The project is desdcribed below.
1. Community development
(a) micro-projects: (i) socio-economic community works for temporary
employment and income generation; (ii) productive community investment
projects for sustainable employment and income generation;
2. Project management
5. Financing
Total                           ( US$m)
BORROWER                             0
IDA                                 15
Total Project Cost                  24
6. Implementation
GSIF will be the project implementing agency. It was established as an
autonomous public agency under the previous Social Investment Fund Project
for the purpose of functioning as a social fund financing community-level
demand-driven socio-economic micro-projects. It will be responsible for
-2 -



overall project management. It will also be responsible for (i) promoting
micro-projects at at the community level, and providing training and
technical assistance to communities and local governments with a view to
generating such projects and establishing local government/community
collaboration in their implementation; (ii) appraisal of micro-projects
submitted by communities on their own or in collaboration with local
authorities and/or other civil society organizations; (iii) supervision
(i.e. follow up) of micro-project implementation; and (iv) monitoring and
evaluating project outcomes and impact on the target population.Under GSIF
II, additional tasks would be added to the GSIF menu. In addition to the
directly project-related outreach that it undertakes during the
micro-project cycle, it would undertake local government and
community-level capacity building - in the former case to incorporate
community and citizen participation in the local development planning
process, and in the latter to strengthen community-level self-help and
advocacy functions.GSIF organization. GSIF is headed by an Executive
Director and consists of five departments - project development,
micro-projects, procurement, finance and administration, and management
information. All departments are manned by skilled professionals
recruited competitively and employed on annual, renewable contracts. Work
is undertaken either by GSIF staff, sub-contracted, or through a
combination of these methods. An Executive Board composed of senior
government representatives and one non-governmental representative,
approves GSIF policies and procedures, annual budgets and work plans,
quarterly and annual reports and appoints an independent auditor. The
Executive Board takes decisions on projects over $70,000. All other
projects are decided on by the Executive Director in consultation with the
department directors. Decision-making is transparent and in accordance
with criteria set out in the organization's Operational Manual. An
appeals process allows GSIF to work with communities whose projects have
been rejected to improve them for re-submission. In accordance with the
new emphasis of GSIF's work on community development rather than
micro-project support, the organization wil undergo a number of changes as
noted above (Section xx). The project development department will be
significantly strengthened in order to provide more diversified outreach,
and it is expected to increasingly collaborate with outside entities,
especially NGOs, in generating community dynamics. At the same time, the
working relationships between the different departments will become much
closer, the aim being that staff from different departments will work as
cohesive mutually supportive teams throughout the project cycle and beyond
in inputing community engagement. Technical skills in the micro-project
department will be enhanced to enable the introduction of appropriate
design and construction norms and standards, and technical specifications
will be set out for different types of micro-projects. During project
preparation, consideration will be given to restructuring the GSIF
Executive Board. During the first project the Board appears to have
played only a marginal role in guiding GSIF's operations. Nonetheless, an
Executive Board for a social fund has important functions - it represents
the public interest in the broadest sense, and it provides an essential
linkage to the public administration. Consequently, during project
preparation, it will be explored to what extent the Board can be
strengthened so as to better reflect those functions by introducing
respected representatives from civil society - f.i. academia and the NGO
sector - that have a strong interest and expertise in poverty questions,
as well as attempting to activate the Board in its important supervisory
- 3-



role of GSIF activities.GSIF's Operational Manual (OM), and accompanying
manuals on finance and administration, will be revised. The OM is the
main document guiding GSIF iunterventions. It specifies processes,
procedures, roles, and responsibilities for project implementation, and it
describes eligible micro-project typologies and key appraisal criteria for
micro-projects.In addition to the OM, a comprehensive, computerized
Information System (MIS) provides GSIF with up-to-date information on its
operational activities and the status of micro-project implementation. As
a monitoring instrument, the MIS provides transparency and accountability
of GSIF activities, maintains data for relevant poverty targeting, and
facilitates contracting and payment by storing information on
conjtractors, unit prices and field progress. It also tracks activities
in the micro-project cycle, including basic micro-project data, progress
of works, cost overruns, etc. The MIS is also a progress evaluation tool
that helps to prepare and present progress reports to the GSIF managers,
its Board, the Government, the World Bank and other donors.Financial
Management: Currently, the accounting system adopted by GSIF does not
present an accurate picture of project costs at any point of time because
it is maintained on a cash basis, and not on an accrual basis. As a
result, it does not facilitate the recording of all dues and expenses, as
for example dues from communities, their contributions in kind, expenses
incurred, but not paid, and dues to contractors, which are often high,
because of shortfalls in Government and communities' contributions. For
GSIF II, GSIF will prepare balance sheets based on accrual accounting.
7. Sustainability
Sustainability of project benefits is critically dependent on the
following: (i) community ownership of micro-projects; (ii) ability of
local governments to respond to demands/expectations of empowered
communities; and (iii) positive demonstration effect of community
participation/empowerment on communities not directly benefiting from the
project
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Lessons learned from GSIF I: The design of GSIF II will draw extensively
on the experience under the first project. The following are major
considerations in preparing GSIF II: 1. Sustainability. Sustainable
community development requires engagement by community members as well as
local governments (participation), the output has to be satisfactory, and
operations and maintenance arrangements in place.Community participation
requires intensive interaction before, during and after project
implementation. GSIF II will reflect this in an increased emphasis on the
demand orientation of the project and on community mobilization and
capacity building; and capacity building for participatory development at
local government levels;In addition to the project being a recognized
priority by the community, technical execution is important. Particular
attention will be paid to the quality of works during GSIF II, the
upgrading of standards and norms, the introduction of technical
specifications for all works, and the upgrading of GSIF staff skills
accordingly for effective supervisionIncreased attention needs to be paid
to operations and maintenance arrangements to ensure that staffing and
supplies are available, and preventive maintenance is undertaken
appropriately. Both are joint responsibilities of beneficiary communities
and local government authorities and underline the need for active
involvement of both communities and local governments for successful
- 4 -



community development. GSIF II will pay particular attention to
enhancing community development in both constituencies.2. Micro-project
size. Under GSIF I, the average size of micro-projects was a relatively
high US$ 70,000 equivalent. This has proven awkward for a number of
reasons:In many instances poor communities find it difficult to mobilize
the necessary counterpart resources for larger projects;Larger projects
that exceed the capabilities of poor communities may often be
inappropriate and not cost-effective for the community;Local authorities
may unduly influence the selection process in the direction of larger
urban projects and in support of official priorities which do not
necessarily focus on poverty;Based on some GSIF experience, undertaking
large projects may result in underfunded and/or partially completed
projects.Therefore, during preparation of GSIF II, consideration should be
given to ways of reducing the average size of projects from its current
level or, if it is maintained, introducing appropriate constraints.3.
Counterpart funds. Shortages of government counterpart funds and
difficulties to mobilize community contributions adversely affected
performance under GSIF I. Regarding the former, preparation will focus on
how to better ensure availability of government funds, essentially to meet
tax requirements. Community contributions may have suffered both from a
lack of ownership of projects by the community and the often excessive
size of projects. These issues will be addressed under the new project -
by means of strengthening ownership (see sustainability above), by
attempting to reduce project size and designing projects that better
correspond to current and future community needs and that are technically
sound. The size and nature (cash/in-kind) of the community contribution
will also be reviewed.4. Poverty targeting. Under GSIF I, the targeting
formula contained a number of biases, which resulted in a selection bias
towards wealther communities (see Section xx below). During preparation
of GSIF II, consideration will be given to ways to reduce this selection
bias, including emphasizing smaller, more manageable projects that are
more appropriately calibrated to the community, through more intense
outreach by GSIF in seeking affordable and sustainable solutions.5. The
GSIF Executive Board. Under GSIF I, the Executive Board played a modest
role in guiding GSIFs activities. Nonetheless, a Fund Board plays a
prominent role in providing formal links to the government authorities,
setting policy directions, avoiding misuse and misallocation of funds and
more generally reflecting a national commitment to poverty reduction that
involves both public authorities and civil society. For the second
project, the structure of the Board therefore will be reconsidered in
order to make it pro-active. In particular, consideration will be given
to broaden the variety of stakeholders to include a strong representation
of NGOs, respected citizens with a strong interest in community work and
poverty alleviation, as well as some appropriate selection of
representatives of local government authorities and communities.6. Other
donors. Currently, GSIF is receiving support from KfW in addition to the
IDA. In anticipation of a second IDA credit, GSIF will be encouraged to
actively seek broader donor support for its activities. In doing so,
particular focus would be given to harmonizing conditions and criteria for
the use of the funds of other potential donors as closely as possible with
each other for efficient managementImplications for GSIF structure and
operations. The proposed shift in emphasis in GSIF II from the
undertaking of micro-projects to community mobilization, will have
implications for GSIF structure and operations.Promotion. As community
mobilization and advocacy throughout the micro-project cycle become
- 5-



critical to success, outcomes will not only be judged on micro-project
completion in the narrow sense of physical construction, but increasingly
on indicators of community ownership and empowerment. The role of the
GSIF Social Development Unit (SDU) changes. The intensity of interactions
between the SDU and client communities may need to significantly increase
in terms of number and nature of visits with a greater emphasis placed on
advocacy, i.e. community empowerment. The SDU has already developed
strategies that, if implemented, would go a long way towards establishing
a strong community mobilization and support function. At the same time,
the SDU may need to be strengthened, including by reconsidering the role
of Regional Coordinators to provide more support for a community
empowerment function.GSIF working methods.    With a more comprehensive
approach to micro-projects and micro-project design, close collaboration
between different units in GSIF becomes more important, especially those
responsible for promotion, appraisal and follow-up functions. During
preparation of GSIF II, the modalities for collaboration will be precisely
defined to allow a comprehensive approach. This will also require a
review of the skills mix in the various teams, as well as the need for
upgrading and broadening of skills - for instance, the design of a
micro-project should reflect compatible technical, social and
institutional recommendations. Quality of works. Increased attention
needs to be paid to the technical quality of works and functional
considerations in implementing micro-projects. Appropriate standards for
construction and repair need to be developed, and the skills to apply them
developed; and functional considerations - the purpose and effective use
of the facility - need to be introduced in assessing micro-projects. Only
a facility that has appropriate construction standards (f.i.
winterization) and meets the needs of the community can be expected to
develop ownership at the community level. The micro-project cycle may
become longer, as the previous emphasis on community participation in the
early stages of the project cycle towards institutional development at the
community and local government level. At the same time, there will be an
increased emphasis on impact evaluation, including the role of the
community in project outcomes and the extent to which community members
awareness of problems and their willingness to face them has increased.
Changes in GSIF administration. These considerations will have
implications for the following elements in GSIF's administration:n The
Operating Manual and related manuals and annexes will need to be adjustedn
New norms and standards for works need to be developedn The new approaches
will generate training requirements on the staff in anticipation of their
implementationn A new budget will need to be preparedn The current
structure of the organization (the organigram) will need to be
reconsideredn The management information system will need to be revisedn
Additional staff with complementary skills especially in community
development work may need to be employed
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        The proposed project is expected to have a positive
environmental impact, espcially by rehabilitating sanitation and
water-supply facilities. Likewise, improvements in schools in many
instances is expected to improve energy efficiency. To safeguard the
environment, the GSIF has incorporated environmental criteria into
microproject appraisal and selection in accordance with the Environmental
- 6 -



Impact Assessment methodology in the Operational Manual. Whenever a
microproject would have an identifiable negative impact, an appropriate
mitigation plan would be submitted to IDA. Microprojects with serious
negative impacts would be excluded from funding. The environmental impact
methodology and mitigation plans will be monitored during Bank supervision
of the GSIF.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Aleksandra Posarac
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-458-5950
Fax: 202-477-3387
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending February 2, 2002
- 7 -



