25450
THE WORLD BANK GROUP
4Jfos hop
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 03/26/2003
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: GEORGIA                                     Project ID: P074361
Project: GEORGIA SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 11           Task Team Leader: Aleksandra Posarac
Authorized to Appraise Date: March 21, 2003          [BRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: May 15, 2003                          IDA Amount ($m): 15.00
Managing Unit: ECSHD                                 Sector: Other social services (100%)
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)   Tlheme: Social risk coping (P); Civic engagement;
Status: Lending                                      participation and community driven development (P);
Social risk reduction (P)
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The Second Georgia Social Investment Fund Project (GSIF II) has the following development
objectives: (i) participating local self-governments use enhanced management skills and a
participatory process in establishing local development plans and setting investment priorities;
(ii) participating poor communities apply for, manage and use micro-projects in a sustainable
manner; and (iii) participating poor communities benefit from improved social and economic
infrastructure and related services.
To that end, the project will place an explicit emphasis on strengthening the interaction between
local self-government(l) and citizens in improving the quality of life in communities. The
project will introduce community development planning through a participatory process
involving local self-government and citizenry. It will finance community-level micro-projects
generated by that process. It will undertake capacity building and asset management at the local
self-government level. At the community level, it will develop community mobilization and
advocacy skills to strengthen self-reliance and self-help mechanisms(2).
(1) Government in Georgia has four levels - state, region, local (district) government, local self-government. Local
self-government is the lowest level, and it may consist of a village or a group of villages, a town or a city. In the case
of larger towns and cities, there may be more than one local self-government, representing different sections of the
town or city. In most instances, self-government units have an elected local self-government council. The
Government's decentralization program covering the 2000-2005 period aims at devolving extensive responsibilities
to local self-governments: (i) local utility services; (ii) budget planning and management; and (iii) asset management
It will also assign local taxes and other sources of revenue to local self-governments. The different levels of
government are described in Annex 17.



2
ISDS
(2) Community mobilization involves generating community support around specific activities. Advocacy involves
identifying issues and objectives and developing strategies and targeted messages to mobilize outside support for
community interests.                                                       I
This involves a fundamental shift in the practice of GSIF interventions from straight-forward
financing and implementation of micro-projects with limited community involvement, towards
one that aims at fully engaging the community in the local development planing and
decision-making process. This is expected to increase the likelihood that selected micro-projects
are appropriate to the local development context and reflect community preferences. It also
should help secure community ownership of micro-projects and improve their sustainability. The
approach, with its focus on local self-government and community, would moreover support the
decentralization process, which places a great deal of responsibility for local development with
local self-government authorities; it would in particular help bring about a decentralization
process that is both inclusive and transparent in relations between local self-governments and
their constituencies.
The change in emphasis from GSIF I addresses issues that were raised in the mid-term review of
GSIF I as well as in subsequent beneficiary impact assessments. The design of corresponding
instruments draws on experience and lessons learned in other similar ECA projects, as well as
such projects in other regions, and of other donors active in Georgia. They are discussed in
Section D.3.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The GSIF II project will have three components: (a) capacity building at local community and
self-government levels, relating to the participatory planning process, and institutional
strengthening of local self-governments through training in management and administrative
skills; (b) identification, development and implementation of community-based micro-projects;
and (c) project management. Annex 2 provides a project description and Annex 3 a detailed
breakdown of costs.
Components:
1. Capacity building(a)
a. community-level
b. local self-government level
2. Micro-projects
3. Project management(b)
a. investment costs
b. incremental recurrent costs
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key environmental and social
characteristics of the area and population likely to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites
or critical natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
The project will be national in scope. It will target poor population groups in peri-urban areas of
large cities, small cities and towns and villages. Micro-projects will be small in size and are
unlikely to have adverse environmental effects. In some instances, depending on the micro-project



3
ISDS
type, it may have direct positive environmental impact. Nonetheless, to address environmental
concerns, the Operating Manual for the project will contain appropriate environmental criteria.
B. Clheck Environmental Classification: F (Financial Intermediary Assessment)
Comments: The project is a social fund-type operation.
The proposed project is expected to have a positive environmental impact, especially by
rehabilitating sanitation and drinking water-supply facilities. Likewise, improvements in schools
in many instances is expected to improve energy efficiency. Environmental concerns will be
addressed during the selection, development and implementation of micro-projects. The relevant
chapter of the Operating Manual (OM) of the project lays out procedures and implementation
arrangements for ensuring full consideration of environmental safeguards, in accordance with the
Bank's environmental assessment guidelines. These environmental assessment guidelines are
operationalized in an accompanying handbook to the OM, "Guidelines on Environmental
Procedures for the Operating Manual".
Each micro-project to be financed by GSIF II will be individually screened and reviewed by the
GSIF - by specific type - for any negative impacts, and appropriate mitigations measures will be
incorporated into the project design and implementation (an EMP is included in the OM for those
projects with more complex environmental impacts).  The micro-project proposal will
incorporate an environmental review checklist, and the micro-project appraisal document will
adapt type-specific analysis, costs, and mitigation measures. Training will be provided to
technical specialists in the GSIF to carry out the evaluation and monitoring of micro-projects
according to agreed environmental standards.  Whenever a micro-project would have an
identifiable negative impact, an appropriate mitigation plan would be submitted to IDA.
Micro-projects with serious negative impacts would be excluded from  funding.  The
environmental impact methodology and mitigation plans will be monitored during the Bank
supervision of GSIF.
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy                             Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                0 Yes 0 No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP/GP 4.04)                        0 Yes * No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)                                   0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                               0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                           0 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                            0 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                   0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)                             0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)     0 Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*             0 Yes * No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims
on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions. If information is not available,
describe steps to be taken to obtain necessary data.



4
ISDS
ll.D. I a. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. Identify and
describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts.
The project does not entail any new construction and is focused on rehabilitation of
infrastructure. Currently, land acquisition is not envisaged under the micro-projects based on the
implementation experience under the GSIF I Project. In case it becomes necessary to acquire
lands, i.e. right-of-way for pipes, etc., existing public norms and regulations in Georgia require
adequate compensation to the land owners. Since the envisioned micro-projects are only to
rehabilitate existing publicly owned infrastructure, the existing right-of-way arrangements are
still in effect and will not require resettlement.
Tl.D. I b. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of more than one safeguard policy or
due to multiple project component.
The micro-projects are community driven and any potential cumulative impacts will be determined only
during micro-project appraisal. The analysis will be carried out as outlined in the Operating Manual.
II.D. I c Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future activities in the project area.
The potential long term impacts can only be determined once the GSIF and a community have agreed on
the micro-project. The appraisal and evaluation will be carried out based on the agreed Guidelines, as
reflected in the Operating Manual.
HI.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
Il.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and disclosure on
safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people.
The GSIF Second Project is designed as a community-driven development project, whereby
beneficiaries are directly involved  in the planning, identification, preparation, design,
implementation, and subsequent operation of community investment projects. Hence, the key
stakeholders are communities and local self-governments, and here the capacity-building
programs under GSIF II aim squarely at providing them with skills that will ensure broad
participation in the local development process.  Other local-level stakeholders are private
enterprises that are eligible to participate in micro-project implementation. Donors include KfW,
which participates with the Bank in the financing of GSIF II. Through a partnership arrangement
with USAID, the project will facilitate participation by NGOs in supporting community
development under the project; at the same time, it is expected that local NGOs will benefit from
their exposure to and collaboration with the USAID-funded international NGOs on various
aspects of local development. The main stakeholder at the national level is the Government,
participating through GSIF's Board, which oversees project management and ensures the
consistency of GSIF II operations with Government policy.
The institutional arrangements proposed for GSIF II aim squarely at strengthening the role of key
stakeholders - by enhancing participatory and partnership skills among stakeholders; and by
emphasizing stakeholder participation throughout the project cycle. The impact of the project



5
ISDS
with regard to key stakeholder participation and overall satisfaction with the GSIF program will
be systematically monitored throughout the life of the project. Beneficiary assessments will be
undertaken to provide feedback and evaluation from the community concerning what it perceived
to be the project's direct and indirect impacts regarding improved access and quality of services,
local participation and organization, attitudes and values, local self-government relations, new
associations and partnerships, and sustainability.
Georgian legislation requires that public consultations be held for all investments that could have
a significant environmental impact. At the national level, GSIF has undertaken a stakeholder
meeting with the concerned government authorities and the main NGOs that may be involved in
the project. In the case of micro-projects, stakeholders will be consulted on a case-by-case basis,
depending on the nature of the proposed project, during the screening process, during the
development of plans to address potential environmental impact, and during micro-project
supervision to assess environmental aspects of micro-projects. Typically, GSIF staff will hold
discussions on-site with the community during screening and with both the community and the
local self-government in preparing and reviewing environmental assessments and environmental
management plans, if and when required. Whenever possible, experts within the local
self-government or community will participate directly in the preparation of environmental
assessments and plans. Communities must obtain all necessary permits and clearances from the
local self-government before final approval by the GSIF of any project proposal. During project
implementation, GSIF staff will monitor and supervise the quality of works and assess the
environmental standards of the micro-projects. In addition, annual technical reviews will be
carried out by independent consultants to assess the quality of works, including environmental
standards, of a number of selected micro-projects of different types.
The Operating Manual is intended to be a public document. The Operating Manual's "Guidelines
on Environmental Procedures" is publicly available in the GSIF website and the Georgia
Assistance website. The "Guidelines on Environmental Procedures" will also be disclosed
during the stakeholders' community meetings. Georgian NGOs and other stakeholders were
consulted and this has been reflected in the Guidelines. The Operating Manual will be agreed
with the Bank by Project Effectiveness and the Guidelines on Environmental Procedures will be
publicly available and discussed by the community stakeholders during every micro-project
preparation. The ISDS will also be available through the Bank's InfoShop.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact in any policy. Or on basis of
cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards. Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the
provisions of that policy apply.
[ ] SI. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or significant technical and institutional risks
in management of one or more safeguard areas
[ ] S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are limited in their impact and are
technically and institutionally manageable
[ ] S3. -No safeguard issues
[X] SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds, community driven development or
similar projects which require a safeguard framework or programmatic approach to address
safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements
Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management Plan:      Expected      Actual



6
ISDS
Date of receipt by the Bank                                                2/19/2003
Date of "in-country" disclosure                             2/19/2003      3/20/2003
Date of submission to InfoShop                              2/19/2003      3/21/2003
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:                          Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:               Expected       Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Pest Management Plan:                                        Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
Dam Safety Management Plan                                   Expected      Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank
Date of "in-country" disclosure
Date of submission to InfoShop
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please explain why.
Siened and submitted by       Name                                         Date
Task Team Leader:             Aleksandra Posarac                           March 21, 2003
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:                  Name                                         Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: Jane E. Holt                              March 21, 2003
Sector Manager/Director:      Annette Dixon                                March 21, 2003
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
l$     R A$    iiiii



