Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
November 5, 2001
His Excellency
Zurab Soselia
Acting Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
70, Irakli Abashidze Street
380062 Tbilisi, Georgia
Re:  Japanese Grant for the Preparation of the Social Investment 
Fund II Project - Grant Number TF 026883
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Development Association (IDA) to indicate the IDA’s 
agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by the Government of Japan, to make a grant in 
an amount not exceeding four hundred twenty seven thousand U.S. dollars (US$427,000) (the Grant) 
to Georgia  (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial assistance and for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to contract and 
withdraw the Grant for the said purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by signing, 
dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by IDA of the 
copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become effective as 
of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
/s/    Judy O’Connor
Country Director
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
GEORGIA
By:
/s/  Z. Nogaideli
Title:
Minister of Finance
Date:     March 7, 2002
Page  2
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms, and Conditions of the Grant
1.
Purposes and Activities
1.1.
The purpose of the Grant is to assist the Recipient through the Georgian Social Investment 
Fund (GSIF) in the preparation of the Social Investment Fund II (SIF II) Project, which has as its main 
objectives to assist the Government of the Recipient in: (i) improving living standards of the lower 
income groups among the Georgian population; and (ii) strengthening institutions at the local level 
(Project). 
1.2. 
 The components and the activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Institutional Assessment of Local Institutions Building Component:
Provision of technical assistance to carry out an institutional assessment for the purpose of 
providing information on the capacity of local institutions to be used for the design and the 
development of the local institution building component of the Project.  The key deliverable of this 
component will be an institutional assessment report providing clear direction and criteria on how the 
GSIF II Project can support the Government's decentralization efforts at the local level. These 
activities are  estimated to cost US$60,000 equivalent;
(b)
Quality of Works Improvement Component:
Provision of technical assistance to the GSIF team to design and implement a Quality of 
Works Improvement Action Plan (QWIAP).  The deliverables of this component include: (i) the 
development of procedures on quality of works; and (ii) trained GSIF staff and contractors through 
technical assistance on quality of works. These activities are  estimated to cost US$38,000 equivalent;
(c) Improvement of GSIF Guidelines, Methods and Procedures Component:
Provision of technical assistance to the GSIF team in improving GSIF guidelines, methods 
and procedures related to micro-project management and capacity building activities, based on the 
lessons learned under the first GSIF operation. The deliverables of this component include: (i) 
improved guidelines, methods and procedures incorporated in the GSIF II Operational Manual (OP); 
(ii) trained GSIF staff based on the new procedures, methods and guidelines. These activities are  
estimated to cost US$135,000 equivalent;
(d)
Support for Community-based Social Services Component:
Provision of technical assistance to the GSIF in carrying out a vulnerability and social care 
services needs assessment in two-three (2-3) GSIF targeted regions to develop community-based 
social care programs.  The deliverables of this component include: (i) an assessment report; (ii) a 
program proposal; and (iii) a design of the Project component on community-based social services. 
These activities are  estimated to cost US$62,000 equivalent;
Page  3
(e)
Development of a Cost Effectiveness Framework Component:
Provision of technical assistance to: (i) carry out a cost effectiveness study which will 
examine in detail the cost composition and the Project cost effectiveness of GSIF II micro-projects 
compared with those completed under traditional government, and NGO programs; and (ii) design a 
cost accounting framework to provide GSIF management with a well organized information system 
for the proposed GSIF II Project. The deliverables of this component include: (i) development of a 
cost accounting framework (CAF); (ii) design of a cost accounting system (CAS) and all related 
forms; and (iii) trained local staff through technical assistance on cost accounting. These activities are  
estimated to cost US$62,000 equivalent;
(f)
Management Information System (MIS) Upgrading Component:
Provision of technical assistance to upgrade the MIS in the GSIF to effectively integrate 
general information on micro-projects with the financial management and cost accounting modules, 
and for the sharing of information between all sub-systems.  The deliverables of this component 
include: (i) a fully integrated MIS that is operational; (ii) a manual on MIS operating procedures; and 
(iii) trained GSIF staff based on the upgraded MIS. These activities are  estimated to cost US$60,000 
equivalent; and
(g) Grant Audit Component:
Provision of finance in carrying out of an independent audit of grant accounts using 
international standards.  The deliverable of this component will be an audit report. This activity is 
estimated to cost US$10,000 equivalent.
2.
Implementation Generally
2.1. The Recipient, through the GSIF, shall: (a) carry out the Activities with due diligence and 
efficiency; (b) promptly provide the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that 
purpose; (c) furnish all information covering the Activities and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as 
IDA shall reasonably request; (d) from time to time exchange views with IDA’s representatives on the 
progress and results of the Activities; and (e) take all necessary measures required to enable IDA to 
visit the territory of the Recipient for purposes related to the Grant. Without limitation on the 
foregoing, the Recipient shall, if IDA shall so request, prepare and furnish to IDA promptly upon 
completion of the Activities a report, in form and substance satisfactory to IDA, on the results and 
impact of the Activities.
3.
Procurement
3.1.
Except as IDA shall otherwise agree, procurement of the consultants’ services  required for 
the carrying out of the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed 
by the provisions of Attachment I to this Annex.
4.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
4.1.
The amount of the Grant shall be credited to an account opened by IDA on its books in the 
name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn therefrom by the Recipient in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section 4, for expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of  
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
Page  4
4.2.
The expenditures for the following items may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
and shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Activities:
   Amount of the Grant
% of Expenditures
Item
Allocated (in U.S. Dollars)
to be Financed
Consultants’ services including
427,000
100%
audit
TOTAL
427,000
4.3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 4.2 above:
(a)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account: (i) for payments made for 
expenditures prior to the date of signature of this Letter Agreement by IDA; (ii) on account of 
payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the Recipient; (iii) on account of expenditures 
in the territories of any country which is not a member of IDA or for services supplied from such 
territories; or (iv) for the purpose of any payment to persons or entities,  if such payment to IDA’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and
(b)
No withdrawals shall be made from the Grant Account after April 15, 2003 or such later 
date that IDA shall establish by notice to the Recipient (the Closing Date), provided that, except in 
special circumstances, the Closing Date shall not be extended beyond the expected date of Bank 
approval of financing for the Project.  However, withdrawals may be made after the Closing Date for 
expenditures incurred prior to the Closing Date if the corresponding withdrawal application is 
received by IDA within four months after the Closing Date, after which time any amount of the Grant 
remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account shall be canceled.
4.4.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, it shall 
deliver to IDA a written application for withdrawal of such amount in the form specified by IDA.  
Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on behalf of the Recipient by the Minister of Finance of 
the Recipient or such other person as he or she shall have authorized in writing; and (b) accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as IDA shall reasonably request.  Authenticated 
specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal applications shall be provided with 
the first application bearing his or her signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the 
Grant and its supporting evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy IDA that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such amount is to be 
used in the carrying out of the Activities.  IDA shall pay the amounts withdrawn by the Recipient 
from the Grant Account only to or on the order of the Recipient.
4.5.
IDA may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis of statements 
of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) services of consulting firms costing less than 
US$50,000 equivalent each; and (b) services of individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 
equivalent each, all under such terms and conditions as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
4.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the Grant.  IDA, at 
the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, shall purchase with the currency of the 
Page  5
Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of 
this Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such value shall be 
as reasonably determined by IDA.
4.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and maintain in U.S. 
dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to IDA, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of 
Attachment II to this Annex.
5.
Accounts and Audits
5.1.
(a)
The Recipient, through the GSIF, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial 
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to IDA, adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to the Activities.
(b)
The Recipient, through the GSIF, shall: (i) have the records, accounts and financial 
statements referred to in subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account 
for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing standards acceptable to IDA, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to IDA; (ii) furnish to IDA as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion 
on such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as IDA shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to IDA such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as IDA shall 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant Account were 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient, through the GSIF, shall: (i) maintain or 
cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records and accounts reflecting 
such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after IDA has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, 
orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable IDA’s 
representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included 
in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be 
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
6.
Suspension and Cancellation
6.1. IDA may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the Recipient to make 
further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following events has occurred and is 
continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any of its obligations herein specified; or (b) 
the right of the Recipient or any other entity to which the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the IBRD) has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals 
under any loan agreement with the IBRD or any development credit agreement with IDA shall have 
been suspended. 
Page  6
6.2. IDA may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to make further 
withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been suspended pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to IDA, within 
six months after the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities; or (c) if IDA has decided, at any 
time after consultation with the Recipient, to withdraw its support to the Project; or (d) if the 
Recipient has withdrawn its request for IDA’s assistance in financing the Project.
Attachment I 
Procurement
Consultants’ Services
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the Introduction 
and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers”, published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Consultant Guidelines), and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for grant audit under paragraph 1.2 (g) of the Annex  may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for the institutional assessment of local institutions, quality of works improvement, 
improvement of GSIF guidelines, methods and procedures, support for community-based social 
services, development of a cost effectiveness framework and MIS upgrading under paragraph 1.2 (a), 
(b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Annex shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part C
:
Review by IDA of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for the 
selection of consultants under the Activities shall be furnished to IDA for its review and approval, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection 
of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have 
been approved by IDA, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
Page  7
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms for  estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the 
third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)  With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants estimated to 
cost the equivalent of US$50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms 
of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to IDA for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set forth in 
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Attachment II
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Attachment:
(a)
the term “eligible items” means the items set forth in the table in paragraph 4.2 of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable cost of 
services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to US$50,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 
(a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in 
accordance with the provisions of this Attachment.
3.
After IDA has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to IDA a request or requests for a deposit into the Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, IDA shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw 
from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the 
Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA 
requests for 
deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as IDA shall 
specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to IDA the 
Page  8
documents and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Attachment for 
the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the basis of 
each such request, IDA shall, on behalf 
of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant 
Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have 
requested and 
as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have 
been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by IDA from the Grant Account under the eligible items, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, at such 
time as IDA shall reasonably request, furnish to IDA such documents and other evidence showing that 
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Attachment, IDA shall not be required to 
make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, IDA shall have determined that all further withdrawals should be made by 
the Recipient directly from the Grant Account;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to IDA, within the period of time specified in 
paragraph 5.1 (b) (ii) of the Annex to this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to IDA pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, IDA shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole 
or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph 6.1 of the Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent of twice the 
amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Grant 
shall follow such procedures as IDA shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that IDA shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making 
payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the Special Account: 
(i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this 
Attachment; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to IDA, the Recipient shall, promptly 
upon notice from IDA: (A) provide such additional evidence as IDA may request; or (B) deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if IDA shall so request, refund to IDA) an amount equal to the amount of 
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless IDA shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by IDA into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If IDA shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, 
Page  9
promptly upon notice from IDA, refund to IDA such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any portion of the 
funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall 
be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the 
relevant provisions of this Agreement. 
