Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3758-GE 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Social Investment Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
GEORGIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3758-GE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated  May 29, 2003, between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
 
(B)  
The Project will be carried out by the Georgian Social Investment Fund 
(GSIF) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will 
make available to the GSIF as a grant the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this 
Agreement; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and the GSIF; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through 
October 6, 1998), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
"Community Development Committee" means a committee responsible 
for carrying out a Microproject established in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operating Manual. 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
“EIA” means the environmental impact assessment to be carried out for 
Microproject requiring such assessment in accordance with the requirements of the 
Operating Manual. 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means each report prepared in accordance 
with Section 4.02 of the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
“Framework Agreement” means an agreement to be entered into between 
the GSIF and a Community Development Committee, for purposes of financing, on a 
grant basis, a Microproject on terms and conditions as specified in the Operating Manual, 
as the same may be amended from time to time. 
 
(e) 
"GSIF" means the Georgian Social Investment Fund established pursuant 
to Decree No. 527 dated August 16, 1996 as amended by Decree No. 105 dated 
March 28, 2003. 
 
(f) 
“Local Self-Government” means the lowest unit of government in the 
Borrower, established under the Organic Law of Georgia on Local Self-Governments and 
Governance dated October 16, 1997. 
 
(g) 
“MIS” means Management Information System, the computerized, 
internal monitoring system of the GSIF providing up-to-date data on operations to the 
GSIF management. 
 
(h) 
"Microproject" means a subproject eligible, in accordance with the 
provisions of the Operating Manual, for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, and 
in respect of which the GSIF has entered into a Framework Agreement. 
(i) 
"Operating Manual" means the manual referred to in Section 6.01 (a) 
containing organization and operating procedures of GSIF, including its handbooks on 
environmental guidelines, procurement, finance and administration, and quality of works.  
 
(j) 
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.01 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.  
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 11,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars, a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2007 or such date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such 
later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment 
charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to 
be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half 
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates as 
may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
 
(c)  
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
Page  5
-
4
-
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each 
May 1 and November 1 commencing November 1, 2013 and ending May 1, 2043.  Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on May 1, 2023 shall be one percent  
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) 
of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal amount of 
the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or 
more after the date on which the Association notifies the 
Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph (b) have 
occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a
minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of          
Page  6
-
5
-
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned      
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause the GSIF 
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations 
of the GSIF therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including the 
provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to 
enable the GSIF to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower shall enter into an agreement, acceptable to the 
Association, with the GSIF for the purpose of making available the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time for the carrying out of the Project.  
 
(c) 
During execution of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Project 
Account and transfer each quarter an amount required to allow the GSIF to perform in 
accordance with its annual work plan and budget agreed with the Association. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the 
Project Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project shall be 
carried out by the GSIF pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained 
until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made; and 
 
(iii) 
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records. 
(b) The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph 
(a) (i) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six (6) months after the end of each such 
year the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
Page  8
-
7
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
 
(a) 
The GSIF shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement. 
 
(b) 
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the GSIF will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
 
(c) 
Decree No. 527 of August 16, 1996 and Decree No. 105 of 
March 28, 2003 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, 
repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of the GSIF to 
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement. 
 
(d) 
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the GSIF or for the suspension of its 
operations. 
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Association to the Borrower. 
(b) 
Any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  9
-
8
-
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the 
General Conditions: 
 
(a) 
the Operating Manual has been adopted by the board of the GSIF and is 
acceptable to the Association; 
 
(b) 
the Borrower has entered into an agreement with the GSIF pursuant to 
Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement; 
 
(c) 
the Borrower shall have opened the Project Account in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association and shall have made an initial 
deposit in local currency equivalent to $50,000; and 
 
(d) 
the Borrower has submitted an initial 18 districts selected for Parts A and 
B
of the Project, acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or 
opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely that the Project Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by the GSIF, and is legally binding upon the GSIF in 
accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Page  10
-
9
-
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 
70,
Irakli Abashidze Str. 
 
380062
Tbilisi 
 
Georgia 
 
Telex: 
 
212
348
MOFIN 
 
For the Association
:
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
   Telex: 
 
INDEVAS 
   248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  
 64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  11
-
10
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
GEORGIA 
 
By: /s/ Mirian Gogiashvili 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Tevfik M. Yaprak  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
% of 
 
Credit Allocated 
Expenditures 
 
(Expressed in 
to be 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
Financed
(1) 
Goods and works in 
 
 
8,290,000 
 
72% 
 
 respect 
of 
Microprojects  
 
   
  
 
(2) 
Goods under Part C 
 
 
74,000 
 
100% of foreign 
 
 of 
the 
Project 
   
 
 expenditures, 
100% 
 
of
local expenditures 
 
(ex-factory cost)  
 
and 80% of local 
 
expenditures for other 
 
items procured locally 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ services  
 
 
1,174,000 
 
90% of foreign  
 including 
audit 
   
 
 expenditures, 
 
 
80%
of local  
 
expenditures and 
 
100%
of social charges 
 
(4) 
Training and study tours  
147,000 
 
100% 
 
(5) 
Incremental operating 
 
 
1,174,000 
 
70% until December 31, 
 
costs of the GSIF 
 
 
 
 
2004, 60% until 
 
December 31, 2005, 
 
50% until December 31, 
2006 and 40% 
thereafter. 
(6) Unallocated  
 
 
141,000
TOTAL    
11,000,000
Page  13
-
12
-
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a)  
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of 
any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
 
(b)  
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
 (c) 
the 
term 
“training and study tours” means expenditures incurred by the 
GSIF for purposes of training of the GSIF staff, excluding fees to trainers; 
 
(d)  
the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental operating costs 
of the GSIF incurred on account of the Project, including: (i) staff remuneration and 
allowances (provided, however, that government officials may be considered GSIF staff 
for this purpose only if relieved of their governmental responsibilities and assigned to the 
GSIF on a full time basis) and eligible social charges; (ii) office maintenance, utilities, 
telecommunications, and other incidental costs; (iii) office equipment and consumable 
supplies; and 
 
(e) 
the term “eligible social charges” means the employers’ contribution to 
social and medical charges assessed by the Borrower on the employment contracts with 
citizens of the Borrower. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (i) for works under contracts not 
exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (ii) for goods under contracts not exceeding $30,000 
equivalent; (iii) for services provided by consulting firms under contracts not exceeding 
$100,000 equivalent; (iv) for services provided by individual consultants under contracts 
not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (v) for training and study tours; and  (vi) incremental 
operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower. 
Page  14
-
13
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to assist communities to: (a) organize 
themselves to solve common problems; (b) improve management, administration and 
introduce participatory processes in Local Self-Governments; and (c) improve the access 
of communities to social and economic services on a sustainable basis.  
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
Part A
:
Support to Communities, Local Self-Governments and local non-governmental
organizations
Provision of training and technical assistance to: (i) communities and Community 
Development Committees in community development planning, mobilization for 
Microproject implementation, and advocacy skills; (ii) Local self-Governments in 
community development planning and strengthening management and administration 
skills; and (iii) local non-governmental organizations.  
Part B
:
Microprojects in Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Infrastructure
Financing of Microprojects to improve social and economic infrastructure in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operating Manual.  
Part C
:
Institutional Support for the GSIF
Strengthening of the GSIF’s operational capacity through: 
(a) 
provision of training and technical assistance to the GSIF staff in areas 
related to community development, Microproject cycle, and monitoring evaluation; 
Page  15
-
14
-
(b) 
 provision of equipment, materials and vehicles; and 
 
(c) 
carrying out of technical, managerial and financial audits. 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2007. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account  
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent to SDR 5,000,000. 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, 
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify. 
Page  17
-
16
-
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and 
other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment 
is requested.  On the basis of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as 
the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible expenditures. 
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.  
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
5.  
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Page  18
-
17
-
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as 
the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.  
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B) 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d)  
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
 
