Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3758-GE 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Second Social Investment Fund Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
GEORGIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 
 
Dated May 29, 2003 
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3758-GE 
 PROJECT 
AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated May 29, 2003 between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and GEORGIAN SOCIAL 
INVESTMENT FUND (GSIF). 
 
WHEREAS (A)  by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between GEORGIA (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to 
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven 
million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,000,000) on the terms and condition set forth in 
the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that the GSIF agree to 
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and 
 (B) 
 
The GSIF, in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 ARTICLE 
I 
 Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 ARTICLE 
II 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 2.01. (a) The GSIF declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to be 
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project. 
Page  4
-
2
-
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the GSIF shall otherwise agree, the GSIF shall carry 
the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. (a) The GSIF shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the GSIF shall: 
 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and the GSIF, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with the GSIF on said plan. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The GSIF shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of 
its obligations under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the 
Credit. 
 
(b)  
The GSIF shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of 
the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the GSIF of its obligations under this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
-
3
-
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of the GSIF 
 
Section 3.01. GSIF shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, and financial practices under the supervision of 
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
 
Section 3.02. GSIF shall at all times operate and maintain its equipment and 
other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and 
renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound practices. 
 
Section 3.03. GSIF shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 ARTICLE 
IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  GSIF shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with accounting 
standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to reflect its 
operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) GSIF 
shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of revenues and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
Page  6
-
4
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the GSIF’s reporting obligations set 
out in paragraph 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, the GSIF shall prepare and furnish to 
the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which includes: 
(i) 
A brief written discussion of the progress of the Project 
including explanation of significant variances between actual 
and budget amounts for the period; 
(ii) 
A Statement of Sources and Uses of Funds (SSUF) which sets 
forth actual and budgeted sources and applications of funds for 
the Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by the 
said report, shows applications of funds by main categories of 
expenditures as per the Development Credit Agreement and 
includes actual to budget comparisons; 
(iii) 
A summary of expenditures which sets forth actual and budgeted 
applications of funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for 
the period covered by said report, shows applications of funds by 
main Project activities and includes actual to budget 
comparisons; 
(iv) 
A balance sheet showing accumulated funds of the Project, bank 
balances, other assets of the Project, and liabilities, if any; 
(v) 
Output Monitoring Report, which describes physical progress in 
Project implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and explains variances between the actual 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(vi) 
Procurement Process Monitoring Report, which sets forth the 
status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
Page  7
-
5
-
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar 
quarter. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of the 
GSIF thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
 
(ii) 
the date 15 years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify the GSIF of this event. 
 
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and 
effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 ARTICLE 
VI 
 Miscellaneous 
Provisions 
 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or 
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such 
party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have 
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  The 
addresses so specified are: 
Page  8
-
6
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:  
 
 
Telex: 
 
INDEVAS  
 
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For the GSIF: 
 
Georgian Social Investment Fund 
 
39
(a)  I. Chavchavadze Ave. 
 
380062
Tbilisi 
 
Georgia 
 
Telex: 
 
212348 MOFIN 
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the GSIF, may 
be taken or executed by the Executive Director or such other person or persons as the 
Executive Director shall designate in writing, and the GSIF shall furnish to the 
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person. 
 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
Page  9
-
7
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Tbilisi, Georgia, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Tevfik M. Yaprak  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
GEORGIAN SOCIAL INVESTMENT FUND 
 
By: /s/ Zviad Gonadze  
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Page  10
-
8
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Procurement and Consultants' Services 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section 
I
of
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by 
the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a) Grouping 
of 
contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to 
cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b) 
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower. 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
Page  11
-
9
-
2. 
Procurement of Minor Works
Works estimated to cost less than $30,000 per contract, may be procured under 
lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required 
completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant 
drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotations for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to successfully complete the contract. 
3. International 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
4. National 
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
5. Community 
Participation
Goods and works for Microprojects under Part B of the Project may be procured 
directly by the Community Development Committee in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association as defined in the Operating Manual.   
Part D
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts under Parts B and C of 
the Project, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, 
and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
Page  12
-
10 - 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to: (i) each contract procured under Part B; and (ii) each 
contract procured under Part C.1 estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to: (i) the first two contracts for works procured in 
accordance with Part C.2; and (ii) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $30,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply: 
(A) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(B) 
prior to the execution of any contract, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and 
(C) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Section. 
Page  13
-
11 - 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultants Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraph 3.13 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2. 
The following provision shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph: the short 
list of consultants for services for community development under Part A of the Project, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 and footnote 8 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for audits under Part C of the Project may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultants 
Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for Microprojects including design for constructions under Part B and 
impact and evaluation studies under Part C of the Project estimated to cost less than 
$100,000 may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultants Guidelines. 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services of individual consultants for: (a) under Parts A, B and C of the Project 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines; and (b) under Part C of the 
Project may be selected on a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.3 and 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, subject to prior approval of the 
Association. 
Page  14
-
12 - 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
Plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable criteria and procedures, shall be furnished 
to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to consultants of any 
requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every 12 months during the execution 
of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval.  
Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance 
with such selection plan as updated from time to time as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultants Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants to be selected on a sole source basis, or estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more, the report on the comparison of the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the 
Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after 
the said approval shall have been given.  The provisions of paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Consultant Guidelines shall also apply to such contracts. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  15
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program 
1. 
(a)  
The GSIF shall notify and obtain prior approval of the Association for 
any changes in the appointment of or terms of employment of the executive director, 
deputy executive director or area and department managers. 
 
(b) 
The GSIF shall ensure that: (i) Microprojects are identified, selected, 
appraised, approved, implemented and evaluated in accordance with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Operating Manual and the applicable Framework Agreement; 
and (ii) the GSIF’s operations shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in the Operating Manual. 
 
(c) 
The GSIF shall not amend or waive any provision of the Operating 
Manual without the prior consent of the Association. 
2. 
The GSIF shall carry out annually, an independent technical and managerial audit 
of implementation of the Project, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The GSIF shall: (a) furnish to the Association the draft Framework Agreement 
and such other documents and information as the Association may request in respect of 
any of Microprojects for the Association’s review and approval prior to GSIF’s approval 
of: (i) any social Microproject estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or more; (ii) any 
economic Microproject estimated to cost $75,000 equivalent or more; and (iii) all co-
financed Microprojects regardless of their size. 
4. 
The GSIF shall ensure that EIAs shall be carried out in a timely manner for all 
Microprojects requiring such EIAs and incompliance with: (a) environmental standards 
satisfactory to the Association; and (b) all applicable laws and regulations of the Borrower 
relating to health, safety and environmental protection. 
5. 
The GSIF shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 15, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  16
-
14 - 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the 
efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during 
the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 15, 2005, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations 
of the said r
eport and the Association’s views on the matter. 
6. 
GSIF shall prepare an annual work plan and budget to be agreed with the 
Association.  
7. 
GSIF shall ensure that the community contribution for all Microprojects shall be 
at least 8% of the overall costs in the form of cash or in-kind contribution. 
 
