Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H533-BI 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Third Economic Reform Support Grant) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated November 19, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H533-BI 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated November 19, 2009 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
BURUNDI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association”) for the purpose of providing financing in support of the 
Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Association has decided to 
provide this financing on the basis
,
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has 
already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of the Schedule to 
this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic 
policy framework.  The Recipient and the Association therefore hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
sixteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 16,000,000
)
(“Grant”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in support of the 
Program in accordance with Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are April 15 and October 15 in each year.
 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROGRAM 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.  
To this end: 
(a) 
the Recipient and the Association shall from time to time, at the request 
of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program; 
(b) 
prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress 
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the Association 
shall reasonably request; and 
(c) 
without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this 
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the Association on any 
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Financing 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the 
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action 
specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
—
REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
ARTICLE V 
—
EFFECTIVENESS
 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date 90 days after the date of this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. The 
Recipient
’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 1830 
Bujumbura 
Burundi 
Facsimile: 
257-22-22-38-27 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, DC 20433 
United States of America 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS  
248423(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
Washington, DC 
  64145(MCI) 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
AGREED at Bujumbura, Burundi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI 
 
By /s/ Clotilde Nizigama 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Mercy Tembon
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 
Program Actions; Availability of Financing Proceeds 
Section I. 
Actions under the Program
Actions Taken under the Program
.
The actions taken by the Recipient under the 
Program include the following: 
A. 
Public Financial Management
1. 
Finalization of public expenditure tracking surveys with respect to the 
2005 and 2006 budgets in the education, health, and justice sectors, and 
publication of related reports, in accordance with paragraph 35 of the 
Letter of Development Policy. 
2. 
Execution of the 2008 budget reflecting a significant increase in the 
proportion of public expenditure allocations to priority economic and 
social sectors (ministries at the time responsible for (i) primary 
education, (ii) higher education and scientific research, (iii) public health, 
(iv) fight against AIDS, (v) national solidarity, human rights, and gender, 
(vi) youth, sports, and culture, (vii) agriculture and livestock, and 
(viii) public works and equipment relative to total public expenditure 
allocations
,
as compared with the Recipient’s 2007 budget, in accordance 
with paragraph 36 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
3. 
Preparation of Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks for the 
agriculture, education, and health sectors covering at least a three-year 
period and reflecting priority expenditures protected in the event of 
budget cuts, in accordance with paragraph 37 of the Letter of 
Development Policy. 
4. 
Expansion of the integrated computerized financial management system 
to ensure adequate coverage of the full cycle of budget execution, 
including verification of the availability of funds at commitment, 
transmittal of expenditure files, reservations and transfers, partial 
payments, account closings, and entry balance management, in 
accordance with paragraph 38 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  7
-
6
-
5. 
Strengthening of budget execution and elimination of arrears through the 
preparation and implementation of quarterly commitment plans for 2009 
reflecting the operational requirements of sector ministries and overall 
resource and cash management constraints, in accordance with 
paragraph 39 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
6. 
Establishment of a public procurement regulatory authority with an 
institutional framework and functions in accordance with the provisions 
of the Public Procurement Code of February 2008, in accordance with 
paragraph 40 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
B. Business 
Environment
7. 
Cabinet approval and submission to Parliament of a new commercial 
code and private and public companies code reflecting prevailing 
international standards in the area, in accordance with paragraph 41 of 
the Letter of Development Policy. 
8. 
Effecting an improvement in the performance of the commercial court 
through a reallocation of resources in the juridical sector, as evidenced 
by a fifty percent (50%) reduction in the number of cases pending before 
such court beyond the 60-day deadline mandated by law, as compared 
with the corresponding number in March 2008, in accordance with 
paragraph 42 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
9. 
Cabinet approval of the modality for the sale of 117 coffee washing 
stations and initiation of such sale in 29 lots of 3-6 units each, targeting a 
potential 75-25 percent ownership split between private enterprises and 
producer organizations, respectively, including launch of a press 
campaign, issuance of a Presidential decree establishing a regulatory 
agency in the coffee sector, and related revision of the management 
arrangements for such washing stations, in accordance with paragraph 43 
of the Letter of Development Policy. 
10. 
Issuance of an ordinance with respect to the petroleum subsector 
establishing the principles of quasi-automatic monthly adjustment of 
local prices to changes in international prices and stabilization of 
operational margins at an appropriate level, and Cabinet approval and 
submission to Parliament of draft legislation converting customs duties 
and transaction taxes in such subsector into specific duties, in accordance 
with paragraph 44 of the Letter of Development Policy. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section II. 
Availability of Financing Proceeds
A. 
General.   
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in 
accordance with the provisions of this Section and such additional instructions as 
the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient. 
B. 
Allocation of Financing Amounts.
 
The Financing shall be withdrawn in a 
single tranche.  The allocation of the amount of the Financing to this end is set 
out in the table below: 
Allocations 
Amount of the Financing 
Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Single Tranche 
16,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
16,000,000 
C. Deposits 
of 
Financing 
Amounts.
 
Except as the Association may otherwise 
agree:   
1. 
all withdrawals from the Financing Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into a dedicated foreign currency account designated by the 
Recipient and acceptable to the Association
 (“Deposit Account”); and 
2.  
the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the 
Financing into this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the 
Recipient’s budget management system, in a manner acceptable to the 
Association. 
D. Audit.
 
Upon the Association’s request, the Recipient shall: 
1. 
have the Deposit Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to 
the Association, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Association; 
2. 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the date of the Association’s request for such 
audit, a certified copy of the report of such audit, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Association shall reasonably request; and 
Page  9
-
8
-
3. 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and its audit as the Association shall reasonably request.
 
E. Excluded 
Expenditures
.
The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the 
Financing shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures.  If the Association 
determines at any time that an amount of the Financing was used to make a 
payment for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Association, refund an  amount equal to the amount of such payment to 
the Association.  Amounts refunded to   the Association upon such request shall 
be cancelled.
 
F. 
Closing Date.  
The Closing Date is December 31, 2010. 
Page  10
-
9
-
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1.  
“AIDS” means Acquired Immunodeficiency Virus. 
2. 
“Excluded Expenditure” means any expenditure: 
 
(a)  
for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or 
international financing institution or agency other than the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or 
the Bank has financed or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or 
loan; 
 
(b) 
for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard 
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published 
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future 
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the 
Recipient: 
 
Group
Sub-group Description 
of 
Item 
112  
Alcoholic 
beverages 
121  
Tobacco, 
un-
manufactured, tobacco 
refuse 
122  
Tobacco, 
manufactured 
(whether or not containing 
tobacco substitutes) 
525 
 
Radioactive and associated 
materials 
667 
 
Pearls, precious and 
semiprecious stones, 
unworked or worked 
718  
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and parts 
thereof; fuel elements 
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear 
reactors 
728 
728.43  
Tobacco processing 
machinery 
Page  11
-
10
-
897  
897.3 
Jewelry of gold, silver or 
platinum group metals 
(except watches and watch 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or 
silversmiths’ wares 
(including set gems) 
971  
 
Gold, non-monetary 
(excluding gold ores and 
concentrates) 
(c) 
for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury 
consumption; 
 
(d) 
for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of 
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international 
agreements to which the Recipient is a party; 
 
(e) 
on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations; and 
 
(f) 
with respect to which the Association determines that corrupt, fraudulent, 
collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by representatives of the 
Recipient or other recipient of the Financing proceeds, without the 
Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and appropriate 
action satisfactory to the Association to address such practices when they 
occur. 
 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credit and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of this 
Appendix. 
4. 
“Letter of Development Policy” means the letter referred to in paragraph 6 of this 
Section. 
5. 
“Medium-Term Expenditure Framework” means the transparent planning and 
budget formulation process whereby a government cabinet of ministers 
establishes credible envelopes for the allocation of public resources to its 
strategic priorities for a given period while ensuring overall fiscal discipline. 
6. 
“Program” means the program of actions, objectives, and policies designed to  
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or 
Page  12
-
11
-
referred to in the letter dated September 16, 2009 from the Recipient to the 
Association declaring the Recipient
’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the 
Program during its execution. 
7. 
“Single Tranche” means the amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “Single Tranche” in the table set forth in Part B of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement. 
Section II. 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the “International Development Association General Conditions for 
Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as 
follows:   
1. 
The last sentence of paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (relating to Applications for 
Withdrawal) is deleted in its entirety. 
2. 
Sections 2.04 (
Designated Accounts)
 and 2.05 (
Eligible Expenditures
)
are deleted 
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article II are renumbered 
accordingly. 
 
3. 
Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 2 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.05.
 Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of 
the proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the
 
Association or 
the Bank (“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the 
Effective Date the amount required to repay the withdrawn and 
outstanding balance of the advance as at the date of such withdrawal 
from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and unpaid charges, if 
any, on the advance as at such date.  The Association shall pay the 
amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining un-withdrawn amount of the advance.” 
4. 
Sections 4.01 (
Project Execution Generally
), and 4.09 (
Financial Management; 
Financial Statements; Audits
)
are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining 
Sections in Article IV are renumbered accordingly. 
5. 
Paragraph (a) of Section 4.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above 
and relating to 
Use of Goods, Works and Services
)
is deleted in its entirety. 
Page  13
-
12
-
6. 
Paragraph (c) of Section 4.06 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 
above) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.06. 
Plans; Documents; Records 
 
…
(c) 
The Recipient shall retain all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing expenditures 
under the Financing until two years after the Closing Date. The Recipient 
shall enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.” 
 
7. 
Section 4.07 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph 3 above) is modified to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.07. 
Program Monitoring and Evaluation 
 
…
(c)  
The Recipient shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six months after the Closing 
Date, a report of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by 
the Recipient and the Association of their respective obligations under 
the Legal Agreements and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Financing.” 
 
8. 
The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix are modified or 
deleted as follows, and the following new terms and definitions are added in 
alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the terms being renumbered 
accordingly: 
 
(a) 
The definition of the term “Eligible Expenditure” is modified to read as 
follows:   
 
“‘Eligible Expenditure’ means any use to which the Financing is put in 
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded 
pursuant to the Financing Agreement.” 
 
(b) 
The term “Financial Statements” and its definition as set forth in the 
Appendix are deleted in their entirety. 
 
(c) 
The term “Project” is modified to read “Program” and its definition is 
modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Program’ means the program referred to in the Financing Agreement in 
support of which the Financing is made.”  All references to “Project” 
Page  14
-
13
-
throughout these General Conditions are deemed to be references to 
“Program”. 
 
(a) 
The term “Program Preparation Advance” (renamed as such pursuant to 
subparagraph 8 (c) above) is modified to read “Preparation Advance” 
and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
 
“‘Preparation Advance’ means the advance referred to in the Financing 
Agreement and repayable in accordance with Section 2.05.” 
 
__________
 
