Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 473-1000 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. Cable 
Address: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED 
 
November 23, 2010 
 
Her Excellency
 
Clotilde Nizigama
 
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
Bujumbura 
Republic of Burundi 
 
Re: Republic of Burundi:  Third Economic Reform Support Grant 
Multi-Donor Trust Fund Grant No. TF095937 
Amendment to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
Excellency: 
 
We refer to the Trust Fund Grant Agreement (the Agreement) between the Republic of 
Burundi (the Recipient) and the International Development Association (the Association) acting 
as Administrator of the Multi-Donor Trust Fund for co-financing of the Third Economic Reform 
Support Grant dated January 5, 2010 with regard to the above-captioned Grant.  Please note that 
the capitalized terms used in this letter (Amendment Letter) and not defined herein have the 
meaning ascribed to them in the Agreement. 
 
We are pleased to inform you that the Association proposes, through this Amendment 
Letter, to amend the Agreement as follows: 
1. 
The first paragraph of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
“AGREEMENT dated January 5, 2010 entered into between the REPUBLIC OF 
BURUNDI (“Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (“Association” or “World Bank”), acting as administrator of the Multi-
Donor Trust Fund for Co-financing of the Third Economic Reform Support Grant 
(“ERSG III”) in respect of grant funds provided to said trust fund (“Trust Fund”) by 
Norway and the Netherlands, for the purpose of providing additional financing in support 
of the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The World Bank has 
decided to provide this financing on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of: (a) the actions which the 
Recipient has already taken under the Program and which are described in Section I of 
the Schedule to this Agreement; and (b) the Recipient’s maintenance of an appropriate 
macroeconomic policy framework.  The Recipient and the World Bank therefore hereby 
agree as follows:” 
Page  2
-2- 
November 23, 2010 
 
2. 
Paragraph 2.01 of Article II of the Agreement is hereby amended to read as follows: 
“2.01.  The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to twenty 
two million eight hundred eighty one thousand four hundred ninety two United 
States dollars (US$22,881,492) (“Grant”) to assist in financing the Program.” 
3. 
The table in Part B of Section II of the Schedule to the Agreement is hereby amended to 
read as follows: 
“Allocations 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in United States Dollars) 
First Tranche 
 
9,881,492 
Second Tranche 
 
13,000,000 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
 
$22,881,492” 
4. 
Paragraph 6 of Section I of the Appendix to the Agreement is deleted and replaced by a 
new paragraph which reads as follows:  
“3. 
“First Tranche” means the first amount of the Financing allocated to the category 
entitled “First Tranche” in the Table set forth in Part B of Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement.” 
5. 
A new Paragraph 7 of Section I of the Appendix to the Agreement is hereby added and 
read as follows: 
“7. 
“Second Tranche” means the new amount of the Financing allocated to the 
category entitled “Second Tranche” in the Table set forth in Part B of Section II 
of the Schedule to this Agreement.” 
6. 
Paragraphs 3, 4, 5 and 7 are renumbered to read as follows: 
“4”, “5”, “6” and “8”. 
 
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendments by signing and dating this 
Amendment Letter in the spaces provided below.  Henceforward, all other provisions of the 
Agreement, except as amended through this Amendment Letter shall remain in full force and 
effect.  This Amendment Letter shall be executed in two counterparts each of which shall be an 
original. 
 
Page  3
-3- 
November 23, 2010 
 
Upon confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.  The provisions set 
forth in this Amendment Letter shall become effective as of the date of countersignature upon 
receipt by the Association of the countersigned original of this Amendment Letter. 
Sincerely, 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By _//S// John M. McIntire
_________ 
John M. McIntire 
Country Director for Burundi 
Africa Region 
 
AGREED: 
 
REPUBLIC OF BURUNDI
 
By: 
___//s// Clotilde Nizigama
_______ 
 Authorized 
Representative 
 
Name:  Clotilde Nizigama
Title: Minister 
of 
Finance
Date: 
November 25, 2010
_____
 
