                                                                              97791
Burundi Second and Third Economic Reform Support Grant (ERSG II & III) April 14, 2011




 The Second and Third Burundi Economic Support Grants for Public
 Finance Management and Private Sector Development Reforms


Overview
The Second and Third Burundi Economic Reform Support Grants (ERSG) have provided
building blocks of institutional development and capacity building for enacting the regulatory
and legislative framework for private-sector-led-growth. Significant progress has been achieved
in: (a) Public Financial Management (PFM) (e.g., adoption of an organic law/introduction of
transparency in decision-making; and (b) Public Sector Development (PSD) (e.g., introduction
of companies and investment codes); and (c) leveraging complementary technical assistance
for these important initiatives. These grants supported a fragile country with institutional
weaknesses and thereby prevented, to some extent, a conflict reversal. In addition, the risks of
these operations counter-balanced potential rewards of macroeconomic stabilization.


Challenge
Burundi emerged from a 13-year civil war after the signing of
                                                                   More Results
a comprehensive peace and reconciliation agreement by 39
political parties in Arusha (Tanzania) in 2000, which marked

                                                                   100%
a significant turning point. However, peace is still in the
process of firm consolidation—with intermittent negotiations,
deadlocks, and ceasefires between the elected government
and the rebel movement. Hence, the overall political situation     increase in land values
remains fragile at best.  Yet, recent economic developments
have created some positive prospects: the economy is


                                                                   76%
gradually recovering from the devastating shocks of political
turmoil; since January 2004, the Government of Burundi
(GOB) has been implementing an economic reform program
supported by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and IDA         of eight-year old students
                                                                   registered in state schools were
.                                                                  at the expected reading level in
Nonetheless, Burundi requires grant assistance (exemplified        the third year of elementary
                                                                   school versus 65 percent in
by the ERSG series), since low domestic savings—even               2007.
those augmented by flows from the Heavily Indebted Poor
Countries Initiative (HIPC)—will be far below the requisite
level for accelerating growth, raising living standards,
                                                                  MORE INFORMATION
reducing poverty, and making progress toward the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).                                The Second Economic Reform
                                                                    Support Grant (ERSG II)

Approach                                                            The Third Economic Reform
                                                                    Support Grant Program (ERSG
From the outset, the ERSG grant series was understandably           III)
considered a high-risk operation. The 2008 Public
                                                                    Country Website
Expenditure Management and Financial Accountability
Review (PEMFAR) was an analytical underpinning that                 Country Brief
contributed to the design of the ERSG grant series. The              Country Assistance Strategy
ERSG II built upon the Emergency Economic Recovery
                                                                     Data and Statistics
Credit (EERC, 2000), the Economic Recovery Credit (ERC,
2002), and especially the ERSG (2006), and accompanying
technical assistance with these operations. The second grant
incorporated lessons from the ERSG I (a stand-alone grant),
but had more-focused and less-ambitious project
development objectives (PDOs). IDA relied considerably on the lessons learned from the
previous operations as well as from the experience of other fragile countries. Consequently, the
PDOs were kept simple and less complex under the overall umbrella of the Poverty Reduction
Strategy Paper (PRSP). This grant proposed to: (a) consolidate reforms already underway (in
PFM as indicated in the 2008 PEMFAR completed jointly with the authorities); and (b) re-
energize the reform process in private sector development (the legal and regulatory framework
for the general business environment and the coffee sub-sector).
As a follow-up, the ERSG III targeted the same issues. Additionally, as in the ERSG II, the
PSD component of ERSG III had two main subcomponents:  (a) improving the business
environment; and (b) restructuring the export crops sector. In addition, the ERSG III attempted
to address issues affecting the supply and price of petroleum products, which are critical to
support activities of private enterprises
 

Results

      More accountable and transparent budget management process is in place with: (a)
      budget preparation and alignment with the PRSP; (b) budget execution; and (c) budget
      accounting and control [December 2009]. The implementation of the Organic Law is now
      picking up pace.  Importantly, several off-budget items have been closed, and cash
      management has been streamlined.  A core strategy has been developed.  Institutional
      arrangements have been made under the direction of the Technical Committee Support
      Unit. The GOB has introduced program budgeting in selective ministries, which will be
      operational by 2014.

      Prioritization of public sector expenditures [December 2008]. There has been a
      considerable reduction in security expenditures. The corresponding share of security has
      been reduced to 26.4 percent from the baseline figure of 29.7 percent in end-2007.

      PSD Strategy [December 2009]. A new investment code has been promulgated,
      including a new Investment Promotion Agency (API). A public-private dialogue
      framework was reactivated and is expected to meet on the regular basis. Rules for
      business registration and taxation were also simplified through the enactment of a
      revised Commerce Code. The tax code was amended to make it consistent with the tax
      incentives planned under the new investment law.

      Coffee sector: campaign preparation and exportation [December 2009]. After years of
      studies and consultations with stakeholders, as well as internal political debate, the
      government approved and began to implement a strategic option for the reform of the
      coffee sector and the privatization of processing facilities. The government has adopted
      new measures to liberalize the commercialization of coffee by opening the coffee export
      market to local and international participants. The implementation of these regulations
      has resulted in the effective penetration by exporters based on the principles of
      competition and transparency.

 
Bank Contriubtion
The overall IDA contribution to the series to date has been US$55 million equivalent—not
including ongoing preparatory work for subsequent ERSG series. The IDA allocation for ERSG
II was US$30 million equivalent, whereas the allocation for ERSG III was US$25 million
equivalent.
Partners
There is a strong partnership among key development partners—including the IMF, the
Netherlands and Norway. These bilateral co-financiers (the Netherlands and Norway)
contributed US$23.4 million to the ERSG II-III series. Moreover, the availability of
accompanying technical assistance and capacity building efforts through the IDA-financed
Economic Management Support Project (EMSP) and the partnership with the International
Finance Corporation’s (IFC) Private Enterprise Partnership (PEP)-Africa program have been
instrumental to the success of the Bank’s efforts.

Toward the Future
IDA is launching a new programmatic series – commencing with the ERSG IV (approved by
the Board in December 2010). As the first in a new series of two Development Policy
Operations (DPOs), the ERSG IV will aim to consolidate many of the reforms that started in the
ERSG II and ERSG III series.
