Documont of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repr No. P-2881-ME
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S. A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE
OCORONI IRRIGATION PROJECT
September 24, 1980
This dcumet ha a restcted dWrlbution ad may be ue by recipiets only in the peifrmance of
Itheir ofeAli du"le. its cmntmet may not othervwis be disclosed without World Bank authorIztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Since September 1, 1976 the Mexican peso has been floating; it has
fluctuated around Mex$ 22.60 to the US dollar since mid-1977. On September 9,
1980, the peso traded at 23.0 per US dollar.
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
2
1 hectare (ha)                    =    10,000 m  - 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2          '    0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km )          -    0.39 sq. miles - 100 ha
1 kilogram (kg)                   =    2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)                 -    1,000 kg - 0.98 long ton
ABBREVIATIONS
ANAGSA:     National Crop and Livestock Insurance Agency
(Aseguradora Nacional Agricola y Ganadera S.A.)
BANRURAL:   National Rural Credit Bank
(Banco Nacional de Credito Rural)
CIAPAN:     Center of Agricultural Research of the Northern Pacific Region
(Campo Experimental del Instituto de Investigaciones
Agricolas de la Zona Pacifico Norte)
COPLAMAR:   Commission for Marginal Areas
(Comision para las Areas Marginadas)
ERR:        Economic Rate of Return
FERTIMEX:   Mexican Fertilizer Corporation (Fertilizantes Mexicanos S.A.)
FIRA:       Agricultural Trust Funds of the Bank of Mexico
(Fideicomisos Instituidos en el Banco de Mexico en Relacion
con la Agricultura)
ICB:        International Competitive Bidding
LCB:        Local Competitive Bidding
NAFINSA:    National Development Bank
(Nacional Financiera, S.A.)
PEMEX:      Mexican Petroleum Company
(Petroleos Mexicanos)
PIDER:       Integrated Program for Rural Development
(Programa Integral para el Desarrollo Rural)
PLAMEPA:    On-farm Improvement Plan in Irrigation Districts
(Plan de Mejoramiento Parcelario)
PNDR:       Plan for Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development
(Programa Nacional de Desarrollo Rural)
SARH:       Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
(Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos)
SHCP:       Ministry of Finance
(Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico)
SRA:        Ministry of Agrarian Reform
(Secretaria de Reforma Agraria)



MEXICO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
OCORONI IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Nacional Financiera, S.A.
Guarantor:     United Mexican States
Beneficiary:   Secretariat of Agriculture and Water Resources (SARH)
Amount:        US$23 million equivalent
Terms:         Payable in 15 years, including 3 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 9.25 percent per annum.
Project
Description:   The project would promote intensive irrigated agriculture
on about 10,000 ha in the Ocoroni Valley, in the Northwest of
the State of Sinaloa, through:
(a) construction of the El Sabinal dam, located 40 km up-
stream on the Ocoroni river;
(b) construction of a diversion dam at San Miguel;
(c) construction of distribution and drainage canal systems,
including service roads and control structures;
(d) land clearing on about 6,000 ha, leveling of about
3,500 ha, and removal of rocks from about 2,100 ha.
of land;
(e) provisions for a program of intensive agricultural support
services (extension, research, equipment, demonstration
and training);
(f) equipment and machinery for operation and maintenance of
project facilities; and
(g) Studies for further development of irrigation and drainage
in the Ocoroni, Sinaloa and Fuerte River Basins.
The project would directly benefit about 2,000 ejidatario 1/
families. There will be no private holdings. About 90 percent
of the beneficiaries will be organized in communal groups of
20 to 40 families each, while the remaining 10 percent will
cultivate the land individually, also within the ejido system.
On full development, annual family incomes will increase
about threefold. There are no major risks associated with the
project because of the Mexican experience in execution of
irrigation infrastructures and dam building.
1/   Ejidatarios are members of an ejido, a form of group land tenure based
on usufruct.
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                      -----US$ millions-----
Local  Foreign   Total
I.  Civil works and engineering    13.27    12.12   25.39
II. Land clearing, leveling
and derocking                     1.70     1.53    3.23
III.  Technical assistance              1.00     0.25    1.25
IV. Equipment for operation
and maintenance                   0.09     0.81    0.90
V.  Indemnities and Resettlement    2.80       0.74    3.54
VI. Studies for Agricultural
Development                       0.35     0.35    0.70
VII.  Total Baseline Cost              19.21    15.80   35.01
VIII. Contingencies
Physical contingencies            2.88     2.58    5.46
Price contingencies               8.52     5.56   14.08
TOTAL COST                       30.61    23.94   54.55
Financial Plan:                           US$ millions         %
Government                31.6            58
Bank                      23.0            42
TOTAL                     54.6           100
Estimated
Disbursements:      Bank FY          1981    1982    1983    1984    1985   1986
--------------- US$ millions --------------
Annual           0.7     1.3      7.0     7.0       5.0    2.0
Cumulative       0.7     2.0      9.0    16.0      21.0   23.0
Rate of Return:    15 percent
Staff Appraisal
Report:            Report No. 3083-ME.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO NACIONAL FINANCIERA, S.A.
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF UNITED MEXICAN STATES
FOR THE OCORONI IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Nacional Financiera, S.A. with the Guarantee of United Mexican States for
the equivalent of US$23 million to help finance the Ocoroni Irrigation
Project. The loan would be repaid over 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
with interest at 9.25 percent per annum.
PART I: THE ECONOMY I/
2.        The Mexican economic situation and major issues of economic policy
were analyzed in "Special Study of the Mexican Economy: Major Policy Issues
and Prospects" (2307-ME), distributed to the Executive Directors on May 30,
1979. The most recent economic mission visited Mexico in February 1980 and
is now preparing its report. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Past Performance
3.        For the three decades preceding the mid-seventies, Mexico was very
successful in achieving rapid economic growth while also maintaining stability
in prices and the balance of payments. From 1940 to 1970, GDP growth exceeded
6 percent per year in real terms, inflation averaged less than 5 percent per
year from the mid-1960s to 1972, and the dollar value of the peso, fixed in
1954, was maintained until 1976. The Government's economic role in this
achievement was to carry out direct investments in infrastructure and in key
industries such as power, steel and petroleum, while creating a stable regula-
tory and institutional framework, as well as good profit prospects, to induce
private sector growth.
4.        This strategy produced considerable progress and better living
standards for many Mexicans. However, the incomes of poor farmers and marginal
urban dwellers, whose productivity was low and has not been increasing, have
been lagging behind. There was therefore little reduction in contrasts
within the Mexican economy. While land redistribution has continued, most of
the peasants who received land could not significantly improve their economic
status as they received only limited benefits from infrastructure, credit
and technical assistance. Rapid population growth, which reached a peak of
almost 3.5 percent per year by the mid-1970s, made social equity difficult
to achieve. Even Mexico's sustained economic growth was not sufficient to
absorb the rapidly growing labor force in productive employment and by the
1970s some 50 percent of the labor force was either relatively unproductive
and poorly paid, or openly unemployed.
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the President's Report for
the Seventh Agricultural Credit Project (Report P-2836-ME of June 9, 1980).



5.        During the mid-1970s Mexico experienced increasing public sector
deficits, inflation, large balance of payments deficits, capital flight and
a marked slowdown in the real rate of growth of GDP, which dropped to
2 percent in 1976--the lowest rate experienced since the mid-thirties.
On September 1, 1976 the authorities abandoned the fixed exchange rate of
12.50 pesos per dollar that had remained unchanged since 1954 and let the
peso float; since then it has remained rather stable at rates fluctuating
around 22.60 pesos per dollar. Following the devaluation, Mexico obtained
major support from the IMF. The new Government ratified a three-year extended
facility agreement with the Fund shortly after taking office on December 1,
1976, and was generally successful in adhering to it.
Recent and Current Situation
6.        The present Government inherited a difficult situation.  High
inflation, large public sector deficits, increasing foreign indebtedness
and lack of confidence in economic management indicated a need for economic
stabilization. However, the situation also called for more expansionary
policies; economic activity had slowed down, net private investment was
virtually nil, and the gap between new job creation and growth of the labor
force was increasing. Rich new petroleum discoveries and high world prices
offered profitable investment opportunities in the petroleum sector; indeed,
increased production for export of these products seemed by far the only way
to meet a large part of Mexico's high debt service requirements in the coming
years.
7.        Faced with these conflicting needs and opportunities, the Mexican
authorities adopted a mixed strategy aimed at reducing lower-priority public
expenditures and increasing public revenues, while proceeding with petroleum
and other high-priority investments. The objectives of the Government's
program included control of inflation to be followed by a return to high
rates of economic growth. Better management of public sector expenditures,
tax reform, more rational pricing and cost control in public sector enter-
prises, promotion of private savings, limiting wage increases to justifiable
levels, and more effective cooperation with the private sector were important
parts of the Government's economic strategy.
8.        This approach succeeded in bringing inflation down to 17 and 18 percent
in 1978 and 1979, respectively, as against an annual rate of almost 29 percent
in 1977. The deficit in the current account of the balance of payments peaked
at US$4.2 billion (or 5.3 percent of GDP) in 1975 and declined to US$1.9 billion
(equivalent to 2.5 percent of GDP) in 1977. Favorable oil prospects and
increasing capital inflows brought about a rapid increase in imports reflecting
both the resolve to reduce protectionism and the growing demand for capital
and intermediate goods upon which the expansion of the economy depends.
The current account deficit increased to US$2.6 billion (or 2.8 percent of
GDP) in 1978 and further to an estimated US$4.6 billion (under 3.8 percent
of GDP) in 1979. The public sector deficit peaked at about 9 percent of GDP
in 1975 and declined to about 7 percent in 1979. Mobilization of savings by
the banking system has recovered at a strong pace. GDP growth in 1978
was about 7 percent and in 1979 is estimated at about 8 percent as compared to
2 percent in 1977.



- 3 -
9.        The growth outlook for 1980 continues to be favorable and the
economy should increase at about 8 percent, but inflation will remain a
problem, essentially as a result of expansionary policies with investments
increasing at a rate of more than 15 percent a year in real terms. These
investments call for continued increase in imports of capital and inter-
mediate goods. The import program will put a severe strain on the existing
infrastructure capacity, especially ports and rail transport in which bottle-
necks already exist. Additional strain on the transport system is likely to
come from the large imports of grains as a result of a bad crop this year.
10.       Another threat to the efforts of the Government in reducing inflation
below 20 percent may come from the wage area. The agreed increase in the
minimum wage of about 21 percent for 1980, after three consecutive years of
decline in real wages, while not automatically reflected in the total wage
bill, is likely to establish a floor in union bargaining within the modern
sector and contribute to a cost push which might be passed on to consumers.
11.       The Government will not have an easy task in maintaining price
increases within acceptable limits. The cumulative increase in the consumer
price index in 1980, through July 31, 1980 of about 18 percent, resulting in
part from the newly introduced value-added tax, may adversely affect expecta-
tions about inflation. At the same time, the need to expand public investment
in the key infrasture sectors and to maintain in real terms the current programs
in the energy sectors, leaves relatively little scope for significant adjustments
in the level of public expenditure.
Economic Problems and Prospects
12.       Mexico has the institutional and natural resources necessary to
attain her ambitious goals of rapid growth and alleviation of poverty. The
acute short-run disequilibria that affected the country during the mid-70s
have been brought under control; the new petroleum riches will greatly relax
the financial constraints on growth. The proven oil and gas reserves are
estimated at about 60 billion barrels. Exploitation of these reserves should
allow Mexico to substantially increase production of crude oil and natural gas
from the equivalent of about 1.2 million bbl/day in 1976. The stated goal of
the Government is to reach a production level of about 2.7 million bbl/day
in 1981, and to more or less maintain it at a level that will accommodate
exports of 1.1 million bbl/day; by mid-year production had reached 2.3 million
bbl/day. The Mexican Government is unwilling to exceed this limit for fear
of becoming increasingly a classical "oil producer country" with the economic
and social tensions that would ensue. But even at this production level, the
challenge for Mexico is how to mobilize its resources--its human skills, its
institutions, and its experience--to help resolve its long term development
problems. The most serious of these relate to poverty, unemployment, stagnation
in agriculture, and urban-regional imbalances.
13.       Poverty:  Mexicans have participated unevenly in the remarkable
economic growth of the last several decades. According to preliminary esti-
mates for 1977, at least 2.4 million households (22 percent of the total)
lived in absolute poverty, while at least 2.8 million (25 percent of the total)
had incomes of less than one-third the national average. The root causes of



-4-
this persistent problem are three: rapid population growth, past neglect
of agriculture (where some two-thirds of the poor are principally employed),
and slow absorption of labor in high-productivity jobs (mostly in industry).
14.       The Government is acting on all three fronts.  A family planning
program, started in 1972, has already helped reduce population growth from
3.5 percent per year to an estimated 2.9 percent at the present time. The
program is being further strengthened by the present administration, with the
ambitious goal of reducing population growth to 2.5 percent per year by 1982
and to 1 percent by the year 2000. New approaches are also taking hold in
regard to rainfed agriculture (see para. 17). On the employment front, new
tax incentives have reduced the anti-employment bias and efforts to stimulate
employment will have to be continued. The expected rapid growth of output
should also create jobs more rapidly. In spite of this progress, however,
the still rapid growth of population and the staggering increase of the labor
force (at 3.7 percent p.a.) made unavoidable by the high percentage of young
people in today's population, renders the eradication of absolute poverty a
difficult goal to attain in the near future. The Government has under its
consideration several types of subsidies for the poor. These could prove to be
short-term palliatives and which would preempt resources which would otherwise
be available for investment in employment creating activities or for improving
educational or health standards of the poor on a more permanent basis.
15.       Open and hidden unemployment, which are now respectively at 8-9
percent and 40 percent of the labor force, will remain major problems in the
years to come. With the expected GDP growth rate of 8 percent p.a., the
economy should be able to absorb the additional labor force, assuming no
significant change in the participation rate (now at about 29 percent) and
some increase in labor productivity. In absolute terms, however the present
levels of under employment and unemployment are likely to remain.
16.       A National Employment Plan was published early last year.  It
calls for a number of measures to strengthen the so-called informal sector
in both urban and rural areas. To increase the productivity of those
employed outside the modern sector, and their employment opportunities, a
major effort will be required in the area of vocational training. Technical
assistance programs are also needed to stimulate more organized and structured
forms of activities, especially in the services sector. While there is no
doubt that the authorities are concerned about unemployment, and underemployment,
and while the institutional structure to carry out some important programs
already exist, a concentrated effort will be required to take effective action
and to make better use of human resources by substantially reducing the level of
hidden and open unemployment.
17.       In agriculture, crop and livestock production has shown little
growth since the mid-1960s. Faced with diminishing returns to expensive
new large-scale irrigation works, as well as the continuing low productivity
(and income per capita) in the non-irrigated ("rainfed") sector, the present
administration has re-organized the parts of the Government that deal with
agriculture in order to design and implement a new strategy. This strategy
emphasizes production increases through a balanced development program.



- 5-
Greater emphasis is being placed on technical assistance, demonstration,
and credit to develop the underutilized rainfed agricultural potential.
Programs to rehabilitate existing irrigation serving nearly one million
ha are underway. Small-scale irrigation development is being promoted.
Construction of new large-scale irrigation units continues, but with
a smaller portion of budget resources than in the past. The banking
system is being encouraged to provide greater support to agricultural
production and processing programs. These initiatives should lead to an
acceleration of production growth, more equal development opportunities
for Mexico's farmers, and an improvement in the living conditions of the
rural poor.
18.       The main urban-regional problems are two-fold:  (a) growing conges-
tion, pollution, high-cost of services (especially water) and other manage-
ment problems that stem from continued rapid growth of Mexico City (already
the third most populous metropolitan area in the world) and other areas in
the dry, densely populated central plateau, and (b) retarded development,
poverty and great difficulty in providing either better jobs or adequate
public services for the one-third of all Mexicans who live in towns of less
than 2,500 inhabitants. The present Government has taken many positive steps
to confront these problems, including an administrative re-organization,
elaboration of a comprehensive plan, and introduction of a strong package of
incentives to promote growth in a few well-selected growth poles.
19.       The expected high growth rate of the economy in the years to come
is the country's strongest weapon with which to reduce poverty and unemployment.
Industry will be a leading sector in expanding domestic production and exports.
A National Industrial Development Plan was published last year and it reflects
the serious effort of the present administration in identifying the long-term
prospects of the industrial sector and their implications for employment.
Industry has the potential for considerable expansion in many areas, including
efficient import substitution in chemicals, petrochemicals and capital goods as
well as exports of many different manufactured products. The Mexican Petroleum
Company (PEMEX) has an ambitious investment program to produce a variety of
primary petrochemicals on a large scale for both domestic consumption and
exports and equally vigorous expansion is expected in investment for the
production of secondary petrochemicals. Tourism export earnings are also
expected to increase substantially.
20.       A National Development Plan was published in April 1980.  This Plan
marks the final step in the planning activities which the current administra-
tion has undertaken in order to obtain a more structured picture of the
economic and social problems facing the country. In the past three years,
a National Urban Development Plan and the already mentioned Industrial
Development and Employment Plans have appeared; the National Development
Plan aims at formulating a national development program reconciling the
sectoral targets and making them consistent with the general economic and
social strategy of the Government and with the availability of domestic and
foreign financial resources.



- 6 -
21.       Mexico's public and publicly guaranteed debt service ratio has been
increasing over the recent past and peaked above 60 percent in 1979.
This high ratio reflects the low level of exports relative to GNP and the
high proportion of Mexican borrowing from commercial banks; the ratio of
external public debt to GNP is average for middle-income countries. The
public debt service ratio is expected to decline to around 40 percent in the
early 1980s, not only as a result of rapid increases of petroleum exports but
also as a function of repayment of some of the debt contracted on the least
favorable terms. Debt service on Bank loans amounted to about 2.9 percent of
public debt service in 1978; this ratio is projected to remain about the same
during the early and mid-1980s. The Bank currently holds about 6.1 percent of
Mexico's total medium and long-term public debt, and this ratio is not likely
to change significantly over the next few years. Mexico is creditworthy for
borrowing on conventional terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
Bank Operations
22.       As of July 31, 1980, Mexico had received 65 loans from the Bank
amounting to US$4,220.9 million net of cancellations and terminations; of
these, 37 loans totalling US$1,760.4 million were fully disbursed.
The Bank presently holds US$3,586.4 million of which US$1,657.3 million have
not yet been disbursed. Some 43 percent of Bank lending has been for agricul-
ture and rural development (22 loans for US$1,841.4 million), 17 percent for
power (12 loans for US$704.8 million), 16 percent for transportation (13 loans
for US$666.7 million), and 18 percent for industry (10 loans for US$747.5
million); the remaining 6 percent has been for water supply (US$130 million),
tourism (US$114 million), and urban development (US$16.5 million) projects.
Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of July 31, 1980 and
notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
23.       Implementation of most Bank-financed projects was delayed during
the period of economic difficulties in the mid-1970s and during the period of
adjustment and stabilization that followed the September 1976 devaluation of
the peso. Since then, the Government has taken important actions to accelerate
implementation of the projects. Adequate budget finance has been provided.
Projects which had important structural constraints were modified and rephased
to account for changed circumstances. The Government and Bank officials have
periodically met to review project implementation, and greater attention in
Mexico has been focused on monitoring project implementation and disbursements.
As a result of these measures, implementation is proceeding satisfactorily on
most of the Bank-assisted projects and plans have been formulated to strengthen
execution of those projects where improvement is still needed. The effective-
ness of these actions is reflected in disbursement totals. In FY78 US$91
million was disbursed to Mexico, in FY79 the disbursements totalled US$233
million and in FY80 disbursements further increased to US$401 million or
40 percent of the undisbursed balance at the beginning of the year.



-7-
IFC Operations
24.       As of July 31, 1980, IFC had made investment commitments in
22 companies in Mexico, for a total of US$535.2 million, of which US$393.1
million had been sold, repaid or cancelled. A summary statement of IFC
investments as of July 31, 1980, is presented in Annex II.
Bank Strategy
25.       The main objectives of Bank lending in Mexico have been to:
(i) support policies and programs leading to a wider distribution of the
benefits of economic growth; (ii) help finance projects that make directly
or indirectly, significant contributions to output and employment; and
(iii) help reduce Mexico's urban-regional imbalances. Therefore, the Bank
is preferentially supporting projects of high social priority that help the
rural or urban poor, projects that promote higher levels of employment and
production and those that help to decentralize economic activity.
26.       Because of the difficult structural problems of Mexico's agricul-
ture and the sector's crucial importance to the country's further development,
the Bank has made agriculture the leading sector for its lending. The Bank's
agricultural lending program for Mexico has four goals: first, to increase
productivity of presently cultivated lands through selected programs of irri-
gation and on-farm improvements; second, to improve the productivity of small
farmers through programs for (a) rural development, (b) rainfed agricultural
development, and (c) bringing new areas in the humid tropics under cultivation;
third, to complement infrastructure investments with general support services
including agricultural extension and marketing programs and provision of
medium-term credit; and fourth, to promote employment opportunities in rural
areas through programs of agro- and rural-industries. The Bank has made
thirteen loans in FY74-80 totalling US$1,497 million for irrigation, rural
development and agriculture, agro-industries and livestock credit programs.
Several projects for water control and irrigation, rainfed agriculture,
rural development, and support services are in preparation; a rainfed agri-
cultural development project and an integrated rural development project are
expected to be ready for presentation to the Executive Directors in the
coming months.
27.       Past Bank lending for industry has been aimed at (a) assisting
the Government's efforts to reduce the balance of payments deficit, (b)
decentralizing industrial activities away from the major and increasingly
congested urban areas and (c) promoting greater employment in the sector by
supporting medium- and small-scale industry. A steel project which the
Bank helped structure and finance is now operating in a previously under-
developed area on the west coast of Mexico.  The fertilizer sector has been
strengthened by two Bank assisted projects which the state-owned fertilizer
company (FERTIMEX) is carrying out. Loans for projects to promote the develop-
ment of small- and medium-scale industrial enterprises and to support an
industrial equipment fund (FONEI) were approved by the Executive Directors in
FYs78-79; they offer support to the private sector at a time of rapid expansion.
A second small and medium scale industries project was approved by the Executive
Directors in June 1980. The Executive Directors recently approved a project
for the mining sector which up to now has received insufficient resources from
the financial system. A capital goods industry project is under discussion
for possible Bank support.



- 8 -
28.       As regards infrastructure, the Bank's operations have been focused
on investments in key areas of the country as well as on institutional reforms
and sector policies aiming, inter alia, at suitable pricing mechanisms to
help generate additional resources for investment financing. The airports
development project (FY74) was designed to support the Government's policy
of regional integration; the third railway project (FY76) supported improve-
ments of institutional aspects and financial management of the sector. The
Mexico City (FY73) and medium cities (FY76) water supply projects have been
instrumental in the establishment of specialized institutions for efficient
provision of drinking water and in the pricing of water at levels more closely
related to costs. A highway sector project was approved by the Executive
Directors in FY79.  A medium-size cities water supply project and a railways
project have been appraised and are being processed for submission to Executive
Directors.
29.       The Government and the Bank have long recognized the regional
economic disparities prevailing in Mexico. In June 1976 the Government
adopted the Law of Human Settlements to provide a new institutional framework
to deal with the pressing problems of over-concentration of economic activities
in the larger metropolitan areas. The Government has adopted a National
Urban Development Plan that spells out its regional development priorities
in operational terms, and several projects are now being prepared to meet
the needs for basic urban services for poor families and to provide key
regional infrastructure in selected priority cities. One such project, to
assist in the development of the Lazaro Cardenas conurbation area on the West
Coast, was approved by the Executive Directors in FY78, and a second project
for the oil producing southeastern Mexico has been appraised.
30.       The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) is the second largest
source of multilateral aid to Mexico. The IDB has made loans totaling
US$2,148 million to December 31, 1979. Over sixty percent of this lending
has gone for agricultural and rural development projects, and the balance
for transportation, industry, and tourism infrastructure. In 1979, the IDB
approved five loans totaling US$251 million for industrial credit, irrigation,
human resources, highways and export promotion projects. The IDB and the
Bank have worked in parallel on several projects; most recently the IDB and
the Bank have each made loans for the National Program for Small-Scale
Agricultural Infrastructure, the Integrated Program for Rural Development
(PIDER), agricultural and livestock credit, small- and medium-scale indus-
tries, and hotel development. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) has approved a loan of US$22 million for a rural develo-
ment project in the state of Oaxaca which was appraised by the Bank's staff.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
31.       Agriculture is the most important source of income for Mexico's
rural population of approximately 24 million. It employs about 34 percent
of the labor force in the country, despite increasing migration to urban
areas. The sector sustains about 4 million families, of which 1.3 million



-9-
are landless. The number of landless families is increasing because of the
limited availability of farm land. The majority of the primary sector labor
force, however, is engaged in activities with very low productivity, with
about two-thirds of agricultural labor earning incomes below the minimum wage.
32.       Agricultural external trade remains favorable and exports in 1979
amounted to about US$1.78 billion, or 20 percent of the total merchandise
exports (almost 35 percent of non-oil exports), while the share of agricultural
imports, US$0.83 billion, in total merchandise imports was about 7 percent.
However, the combined effect of rapid population growth and the declining
growth in agricultural production and bad harvests because of droughts in
recent years, have resulted in a significant increase in food imports, partic-
ularly of corn, wheat, sorghum and oilseeds.
33.       The Mexican agriculture is marked by wide disparities in resource
endowment, technology, productivity and income. As a consequence of the wide
range of conditions in the country's two million square kilometers, Mexican
agriculture is characterized by sharp contrasts, such as that between the
subsistence farms in the Sierras and the technology intensive commercial
farms in the western irrigated zones. Comparing the 0.2 million modern farms
with the 1.5 million subsistence farms at the other end of the spectrum,
income per ha in the former is 2.7 times the latter, and income per capita
about 20 times as high.
34.       Since adoption of Government policy to promote irrigation and the
creation, in 1946, of the Secretariat of Hydraulic Resources, three different
phases can be distinguished in the development of agriculture. During the
period 1945-55, crop production grew at a rate of 7.3 percent per annum; most
of the rapid increase coming from opening nearly 110,000 ha per annum to
intensive irrigated cultivation. The growth of livestock production during
the same period averaged 3.7 percent per annum, resulting in a combined growth
rate of 6 percent for the sector as a whole. In 1955-65, the expansion of
irrigated land declined to about 65,000 ha per year and agricultural and
livestock production sector expanded at a more moderate rate of 4.2 percent
per annum. Since 1965, the cropped area has remained constant at about 15
million ha. Agricultural production grew only at a yearly average of 1.4
percent between 1965 and 1978, while livestock production continued to expand
at about 4 percent per annum. The share of agriculture in national GDP has
declined from 14 percent in 1965 to just over 9 percent in 1978, or about 11
percent of the non-oil GDP.
35.       Mexico has, however, a considerable potential for further agri-
cultural development. Large areas of unused or underused lands could be
brought under intensive agriculture. Productivity gains would be possible
with extension of improved technology and applied research to the rainfed
areas, while the promotion of land improvement and reclamation and soil and
water management would enable to bring another 10 milion ha under rainfed
cultivation. Furthermore, the Government proposes to double the irrigated
area to about 10 million ha by the year 2000.
36.       About one-third of the area under cultivation in Mexico is cur-
rently irrigated and the 5 million ha or so of irrigated agriculture ac-
counts for 50 percent of normal output. A major part of the irrigation



- 10 -
facilities depend on surface flow of water stored in reservoirs and, in
recent years, adverse weather conditions have affected the water levels in
reservoirs. In May 1980, water availability in these reservoirs was
39 percent of the storage capacity as compared to 67 percent a year earlier.
Because of the reduced availability of water, irrigated agriculture has
suffered and crop production has declined significantly. However, with normal
rainfall patterns, the irrigation projects under construction would signifi-
cantly augment production capacity.
37.        Water has been a key factor in the development of Mexican agriculture
and is essential to productive activities and improvement of the living condi-
tions of the rural population. The agriculture sector accounts for about 95 per-
cent of the total consumption of water in the country and efficient hydraulic
infrastructures have contributed much to agricultural production over the past
35 years. Efforts for balanced exploitation of the national water resources
and their conservation are reflected in the 1971 Federal Water Law, which
unified existing laws and regulations. The creation of the National Hydraulic
Commission institutionalized this effort in 1972 leading to the formulation,
in 1975, of the National Water Plan with Bank involvement. It established a
systematic basis for a national water strategy, embodying 50 years of experience
in management of hydraulic resources for the global planning of water use
through the end of the century. It formulated specific regional strategies to
address territorial and sectoral disequilibria in water resource endowment,
management and demand, within the framework of the overall national needs.
The proposed project fits into this strategy, since it is based on careful
planning of surface water management, to promote development of the available
potential in the Northwestern Pacific Region, one of the four areas which the
Water Plan included in its regional approach.
Government's Policies and Programs
38.        The present administration has perceived the dimensions of the
problems of the sector and has stated its commitment to improve the living
conditions of the poorer sections of the rural population and to focus on
agricultural diversification.
39.        In order to achieve both, the Government has designed a strategy
aimed at making fuller use of water and land resources, obtaining higher
productivity in new and existing lands and expanding the cropped area, both
irrigated and rainfed, complemented with rehabilitation of those irrigation
districts where infrastructure is inadequate or land is in poor condition.
The rehabilitation programs have received important support from Government
agencies, the Mexican banking community, and participating farmers. New
lands are also expected to be brought into production, mostly under rainfed
conditions; increasing attention is being given to rainfed agriculture
through the 123 recently established rainfed districts. The Government
has given high priority to integration of technical assistance and exten-
sion services with marketing and credit in rainfed areas. The Bank has
worked closely with Mexican officials in preparing the recently appraised
rainfed agriculture development project in support of the national rainfed
district's program. The Government is also taking action to meet the needs
of the indigenous population and of the people in marginal areas, expanding
significantly the program of the Commission for Marginal Areas (COPLAMAR) to
extend infrastructure support and public services (such as health, water,
schools, and food distribution) to these groups.



- 11 -
40.       Additionally, the strategy for development in the agricultural
sector calls for investment in training, applied research, rural infra-
structure, irrigation, land clearing, access roads, as well as marketing
and storage facilities. To reduce income disparities in the rural areas,
the Bank has supported an integrated approach along these lines by parti-
cipating in the Integrated Program for Rural Development (PIDER) and the
National Plan for Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development (PNDR).
Furthermore, to provide impetus to agricultural development, the Government
has substantially increased credit resources for production and investment
purposes. Also, it has taken measures to strengthen the credit and technical
assistance delivery systems as well as to promote participation of private
banks. The proposed project would support the development of unexploited
productive lands under intensive irrigated agriculture to increase crop
production and provide farm employment opportunities in the area.
Experience in Previous Irrigation Projects
41.        In the past seven years (FY74-80), the Bank has approved 13 rural
development and agricultural loans amounting to US$1,497 million:
Irrigation (Panuco, Sinaloa, Fuerte/Sinaloa, Bajo Bravo/
Bajo San Juan and Apatzingan) - US$451 million;
Rural Development (PIDER I and II and Papaloapan Basin) -
US$280 million;
Credit V, VI and VII Project - US$650 m$llion;
Area Development (Tropical Agriculture) - US$56 million; and
Small-scale Agricultural Infrastructure Development -
US$60 million.
As noted in Annex II, by and large, these projects are progressing satis-
factorily. Implementation of the Panuco, Sinaloa and Bajo Bravo/Bajo San
Juan projects was initially delayed mainly because of budgetary constraints.
Accentuating these delays were large cost increases unforeseen at appraisal
done prior to oil price increases of the mid-1970's. The Government and the
Bank jointly reviewed these problems and agreed that the projects be financed
over a longer period of time. This review led to reformulation of the Bajo
Rio Bravo/Bajo Rio San Juan project with cancellation of US$100 million
from the original loan of US$150 million. A supplementary loan of US$25
million was approved by the Executive Directors for the Panuco Irrigation
Project on July 11, 1978. Sinaloa Irrigation project was redesigned, and
the Bank made a new loan in FY79 for additional works in Sinaloa and the
adjoining Rio Fuerte irrigation districts. Following these actions, im-
plementation of all these irrigation projects is now satisfactory and on
schedule.
Operations Evaluation of Irrigation Projects
42.        Since 1961, nine irrigation projects have been supported by the
Bank. Four of these have been completed, two of which have been audited by



- 12 -
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED). One of these two -- Third
Irrigation Project (Loan 450-ME of May 1966) -- has been revisited by an OED
team for impact evaluation. The observations of the two OED audit reports 1/
and the impact evaluation report 1/ are summarized below:
-    On balance, both projects have been very successful, as the
ex post economic rates of return exceeded the appraisal esti-
mates (except in a section of the Third Project, accounting
for 17 percent of the investments). Original project objectives
have been exceeded in terms of production, employment and
social benefits of strengthening commercialization and indus-
trialization of ejidos. The Third Project led to more equal
income distribution in its area of influence.
-    Both projects suffered  from delays in implementation and cost
overruns.
-    Quality of project design, appraisal, management and supervision
are important for success of the project. OED reports emphasize
the importance of joint programs for exploitation of ground and
surface water resources of the project area.
-    Under the Third Project, the Borrower had not fully complied
with conditions regarding controlling groundwater extraction,
recovery of operation and maintenance in part of the project
area and recovery of additional investment charges in the
whole project area.
43.       Experience with past lending for irrigation projects has influenced
the preparation and design of the proposed Ocoroni Irrigation Project. Tech-
nical services and on-farm investments are now included in project costs
and sensitivity analyses are being made for construction delays for changes
in costs and benefits. Bank staff have also become more involved in
project preparation. Special efforts were made by the Government and the
Bank to ensure proper review of the design for the Ocoroni Irrigation Pro-
ject. Also, the planned implementation period was carefully reviewed and
was extended from a proposed four-year period to five years.
44.       Extensive discussions have been held with the Government on cost
recovery practices. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources has
reaffirmed its policy to recover from beneficiaries of irrigation projects
the operation and maintenance costs in full. In addition, following an assess-
ment, through a socio-economic study, of the capacity of beneficiaries to pay,
the Government proposes to recover as much as possible of the investment costs.
1/   1.   Project Performance Audit Report:  Mexico Third Irrigation Project
(Loan 450-ME); SecM76-147; March 8, 1976.
2.   Mexico Rio Colorado Irrigation Project (Loan 527-ME); SecM79-498
June 29, 1979.
3.   Mexico Impact Evaluation Report:  Third Irrigation Project Report
No. 2559 of June 18, 1979.



- 13 -
In their recently adopted National Development Plan (para 20 ante), the
Government has stated its policy of reducing subsidies where feasible and
of making them explicit where these are retained. The cost recovery covenant
(paras 66-69) for the proposed project incorporates the above principles.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
45.       A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3083-ME, dated July 14, 1980) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. The proposed project
was prepared by the General Directorate for Large Scale Irrigation of the
Secretaria de Agricultura y Recursos Hidraulicos (SARH) and was appraised
by a Bank mission in April 1980. Negotiations took place in Washington, D.C.,
in September 1980. The Mexican negotiations team was headed by Mr. Arturo
Ortiz of Nafinsa, and included representatives from Secretaria de Agricultura
and Recursos Hidraulicos and Secretaria de Hacienda y Credito Publico.
46.       A brief description of the project may be found in the Loan and
Project Summary, at the beginning of this report. Please see the attached
map for location of the more important works. Supplementary data on the
project are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives and Description
47.       The proposed project fits into the Bank's strategy in the country
(paras. 25-26) and supports the Government's policies for agricultural develop-
ment outlined in paras. 39 and 40. It would aim at increasing agricultural
production in the Ocoroni Valley, in the lower Rio Sinaloa Basin, in the State
of Sinaloa, by bringing 10,000 ha of new lands under irrigation. Irrigated
land would be equally divided among the 2,000 beneficiary families (all
ejidatarios), each receiving 5 ha.
48.       The Ocoroni Valley is under the jurisdiction of the Sinaloa de
Leyva municipality and adjoins highly productive irrigation districts in
the state of Sinaloa. It has easy access to the distribution, marketing,
credit, transportation and agricultural research infrastructures available
in Culiacan, Los Mochis and Guasave.
49.       The valley's population, about 3,600 (760 families), living in three
ejidos, is currently engaged in subsistence rainfed agriculture on about 2,400
ha including 400 ha in the dam site of El Sabinal. Family income from farming
is only about Mex$ 19,500 (US$866) per annum and is supplemented in great
measure with seasonal off-farm employment in the adjoining irrigated areas.
The combined farm and non-farm family income in the project area is presently
around Mex$ 25,000 (US$1,100) per annum, which is below the relative poverty
level (US$2,605 per annum). About 200 families would be evacuated from the
dam site in El Sabinal; the terms of their indemnification and resettlement
were reviewed by the Bank staff and were found to be satisfactory. These
terms contemplate either the allocation of 5 ha of irrigated land per family
in the project area or adequate cash compensation for those who wish to



- 14 -
settle elsewhere. Approximately, 1,000 landless drifter families would also
be settled in the project area under the ejido system, bringing the total
number of beneficiaries to about 2,000 families.
50.       The Ocoroni River, the principal source of water in the valley
and a tributary of the Sinaloa River, is not regulated at the present time
and the water resource potential in the area is not fully exploited.  Even
though the valley covers an area of about 30,000 ha, water constraints
limit development of irrigated agriculture to about 10,000 ha.
51.       Availability of groundwater resources in the project area is limited
and the project is based on careful planning of surface water resource develop-
ment. It entails three broad types of activities: (a) construction of irri-
gation and drainage and related infrastructure works, (b) land clearance and
leveling; and (c) intensive agricultural support services to help the benefi-
ciaries manage water and soil resources efficiently. Construction would
include an earth fill reservoir dam at El Sabinal, upstream on the Ocoroni    3
River, with a storage capacity of about 300 million m , of which 260 million m
would be live storage; a diversion dam at San Miguel; water distribution and
drainage; road networks; related service works and control structures. The
area to be commanded by the projected irrigation infrastructure works would be
organized into an irrigation district, to be established by government decree,
in compliance with the 1971 Federal Water Law. In addition, the project
contemplates studies for the planning of agricultural development in the
region.
Technical Assistance
52.       Technical assistance in the Ocoroni Valley is currently provided
through the Rainfed Districts Department of SARH and is confined to support-
ing extensive rainfed agricultural practices. Agricultural research in
the region is carried out by the Center of Agriculture Research of the
North Pacific Region (CIAPAN), situated near Guasave, where soils and climatic
conditions are similar to the project area.
53.       Substantial technical assistance is needed to achieve the imple-
mentation of an efficient agricultural production plan. The proposed
project would support the provision of a comprehensive technical assistance
program. Each of the two irrigation units to be established in the new
irrigation district would be further divided into two extension areas to
be served by an agricultural extension officer and two intermediate tech-
nicians. Each officer would be responsible for about 1,500 ha and about
300 farm families. Staff recruitment would be phased in accordance with
the development of the area and each field extension agent would receive
three months of training at the CIAPAN research station.



- 15 -
Credit
54.       The lack of basic productive infrastructure and of working capital,
calls for provision of adequate agricultural credit to support the farming
activities under the project. The Ocoroni area will be served mainly by the
existing BANRURAL branch of Sinaloa de Leyva. Additionally, two branches of
BANRURAL, one regional and one local, are located in Guasave. Private banks
are also active in this area.
55.       About US$1.7 million of long and medium-term credit per annum would
be needed for resettlement and for on-farm development not financed under the
*         project.  About US$7.2 million of working capital per annum would be needed
for essential farm inputs. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the short-, medium- and long-term credit required to utilize the facilities
included in the project would be provided by the financial institutions
operating in the area (Section 3.07 of the draft Guarantee Agreement).
Marketing, Storage and Transportation
56.       The bulk of the increased crop production under the project would be
marketed through the well developed facilities and efficient organization
existing in the State of Sinaloa. The transportation, road and railway
networks in Sinaloa de Leyva and Culiacan connect the area with Guasave and
Los Mochis and also with the urban centers of Mazatlan, Guadalajara and
Nogales.
Project Implementation, Operation and Maintenance
57.       The project would be implemented by SARH through its established
channels. SARH maintains offices in each state, organized following head-
quarters pattern and administered by the State representative of SARH. On
the project site, construction of physical works would be administered by
the resident engineer who reports to the State Representative. The Chief
of the new Irrigation District of Ocoroni would be responsible for the opera-
tion, maintenance and administration of the completed works and would report
to the General Directorate of Irrigation Districts at SARH headquarters.
The extension services in the project area would be coordinated by the Chief
of Technical Assistance in the office of the Project Director of Operation.
The Chief of the Irrigation District would head an Executive Committee
consisting of representatives of farmers, official credit institutions
operating in the area, and technical staff from related Government agencies
(SARH, SRA, NAFINSA, ANAGSA) and oversee development of agriculture in the
area.
58.       The Operation and Development Section of the Irrigation District
would be responsible for operation and maintenance of irrigation infrastructure
works. Adequate maintenance equipment would be procured under the project.
The Irrigation District would prepare and annually update the program to ensure
proper maintenance of the facilities.



- 16 -
Dam Design and Safety
59.       An independent governmental body of recognized experts on dam
design and construction, called Consultivo Tecnico, has been functioning
since 1962 with the responsibility of reviewing the adequacy of all dam
designs prepared by SARH and carrying out periodic reviews during construc-
tion. This group is fully capable of performing the work necessary to meet
Bank guidelines on dam design and safety. In relation to the project,
the Government has confirmed that this body will be responsible for reviewing
the final design of the El Sabinal dam, for continuing periodic reviews during
final engineering and construction stages, and for making recommendations for
maintenance, inspection and safety of the dam throughout its operation.
Monitoring and Evaluation
60.       Monitoring and evaluation is routinely conducted by staff of each
irrigation district as a part of its program of operations. Basic data,
the most important of which concern cropped areas, cropping patterns, water
use, yields, prices, operation and maintenance activities, extension acti-
vities, progress of work and reservoir storage, are collected and used in the
management of the districts.
61.       During the development period, monitoring or construction work
would be undertaken by the Chief Engineer of the project.  Afterwards,
operation and management would be monitored and evaluated by the office of
Drainage and Irrigation in the Irrigation District. Likewise, the technical
assistance program would be monitored and evaluated through monthly reports to
be prepared by the Extension Service. Family budget data would also be
obtained through the staff of each unit, composed of social workers, sociolo-
gists and economists.
62.       Progress of construction, operation and maintenance, agricultural
development and technical assistance would be recorded in periodic reports,
which are part of the routine operations of SARH, and would be available to
the Bank for review and comments. Assurances were obtained that no later
than one year after the completion of loan disbursements, a project completion
report would be submitted to the Bank (Section 3.04(b) of the draft Guarantee
Agreement).
Project Cost and Finance
63.       Total project costs are estimated at US$54.6 million, based on
current costs including allowances for physical and price contingencies.
The proposed Bank loan of US$23 million would finance 96 percent of the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project. Remaining costs would be
met by the Government, including a small portion of the foreign exchange
component for land clearing financed through a special Government program.
Retroactive Finance
64.       In order to speed up project implementation, retroactive financing
of up to US$350,000 is proposed for expenditures for final design, preparation
of bidding documents and construction of the access roads to the storage and
diversion dams, main canals and work camps. To be eligible for such financing



- 17 -
the contracts must have been let in accordance with Bank guidelines (Sched-
ule 1, Section 3 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Accounts and Auditing
65.       SARH would maintain separate accounts to reflect the financial
situation of the project, would have such accounts verified, and would
provide the Bank an annual summary statement (draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 4.02). The Government requires periodic internal control and
verification of all accounts of its Ministries and these procedures have
been examined and found to be satisfactory.
Cost Recovery
66.       Project costs would be recovered through water charges and produc-
tion taxes. Water control and measuring structures would be part of the canal
network and distribution systems to achieve high efficiency in the use of
water.
67.       The Government's  policy is to recover the full cost of operation
and maintenance through water charges and as much as possible of investment
costs. However, the Agrarian Reform Law limits the recovery of investment
costs from ejidatarios to 30 percent. The portion of investment costs to
be recovered would be settled after completion of a socio-economic study of
the district to determine the beneficiaries' capacity to pay. This study
is normally conducted after the district begins to supply water to the fields.
68.       Assurances were obtained that the Government will collect water
charges to recover: (a) the full cost of operation and maintenance; and (b)
that portion of capital costs which is reasonable in light of the beneficia-
ries' capacity to pay. The portion of capital cost to be recovered would be
determined on the basis of a socio-economic study to be carried out by SARH by
December 31, 1985. The study would be updated periodically and water rates
appropriately revised (Section 4.04 of the draft Guarantee Agreement). The
Government would be making best efforts to establish and collect interim water
charges to cover the estimated operation and maintenance costs and as much as
practicable of the investment costs during the period in which only part of
the project area would be irrigated.
69.       Ex ante analysis of the cost recovery index indicates that it would
reach about 22 percent for the project as a whole. The analysis is based on
the assumption that beneficiaries would pay the full cost of operation and
maintenance of the irrigation works through irrigation water charges, and that
farmers' contribution to investment would amount to 30 percent over 25 years,
as established by the Mexican law. The water charges payable represent about
12 to 15 percent of the family net farm incomes.
Procurement
70.       About 85 percent of the contracts for the principal irrigation and
drainage works, amounting to about US$35.0 million, would be procured by
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Guidelines
for Procurement. Civil works would, insofar as possible, be grouped into



- 18 -
contracts having a minimum value of US$2.0 million. Small jobs (telecommunica-
tions, buildings, houses), which because of the timing or nature of the work,
could be better handled if not included in major contracts, would be contracted
following ordinary Government procedures which are satisfactory to the Bank.
This process would expedite the construction of minor civil works under local
competitive bidding (LCB). The maximum value of a contract for LCB would be
US$220,000, with the total of all such contracts not exceeding US$4.5
million.
71.       Small or dispersed contracts for on-farm development works (including
land clearing, removal of rocks and leveling), about US$1.5 million, would also
be let under LCB, or through negotiations under the Guarantor's ordinary
procedures. In the project regions, farmers organize themselves into groups to
contract for land clearing and leveling on small tracts of up to 250 ha using
their own machinery. SARH provides engineering services and supervises such
contracts.
72.       The estimated cost of vehicles, farm machinery, and operation and
maintenance equipment is about US$1.5 million, of which about US$1.0 million
would be subject to ICB, according to Bank Guidelines for Procurement. For
bid evaluation, a 15 percent margin of preference or the prevailing custom
duties, whichever is lower, would be allowed for equipment and vehicles pro-
duced in Mexico. About US$0.5 million worth of minor equipment, not suitable
for ICB, would be purchased through normal local procurement procedures, which
are satisfactory to the Bank (Schedule 2 of draft Guarantee Agreement).
Disbursements
73.       The proposed Bank loan would reimburse (a) 49 percent of the cost
of civil works and engineering, (b) 90 percent of the cost of machinery and
equipment, (c) 49 percent of the cost of land clearing, leveling and removing
of rocks, and, (d) 40 percent of the cost of technical assistance. The loan is
expected to be disbursed in slightly over five years, beginning in September
1980 through December 31, 1985. A Schedule of Estimated Disbursements is
provided in the Loan and Project Summary.
Land Tenure
74.       The establishment of the new Ocoroni Irrigation District would have
an important land redistribution impact and would enable settlement of new
landless families. In addition to the existing 760 families in the project
area, settlement of 1,240 additional families would take place -- each of the
families receiving 5 ha of irrigated land.
75.       After completion of the project, land tenure on the 10,000 ha of
the project area would be as follows:



- 19 -
No. of
Size of    Families   No. of   Total No.         Total
Project Area       Farm (ha)  per Farm   Farms   of Families   Area (ha)
Individually
operated              5           1        200         200         1,000
Jointly operated      100          20         52       1,040          5,200
Jointly operated    200            40         19         760         3,800
Total                                        271       2,000        10,000
76.       Thus, of the 2,000 farm families, 10 percent (200) would be engaged
in individual farming under the ejido system. The remaining 90 percent (1,800)
would be organized in communal groups of 20 to 40 families each, who would
cultivate the land jointly on 100 ha and 200 ha farms, respectively.
Project Impact
77.       Benefits derived from the project would be the increase of income
and employment. At full development, which would materialize in the 11th
year, 423,000 mandays of on-farm employment per annum (about 57 percent of the
available labor) would be generated compared to about 32,000 mandays on-farm
per annum without the project. Likewise, annual incomes would increase from
about US$1,100 to between US$3,000 and US$3,900 per family (of about 5 members
on the average) on full development.
78.       The total cropped area would increase from 2,400 ha to about
14,700 ha, which would imply reaching, at full development, a cropping
intensity of 147 percent. As a result, the total volume of production would
increase from 3,100 metric tons to 55,000 metric tons, bringing the total
annual net value of production from US$250,000 to US$6.2 million, in real
terms, mainly from production of high yield crops such as maize, soya, sorghum,
vegetables and cotton. Social and other intangible benefits would accrue to
the farmers, who would receive access to educational, health, marketing and
credit facilities and related services.
Economic Evaluation
79.       The economic rate of return (ERR) for the project is estimated at
15 percent.  The results of a sensitivity analysis show that the rate would
remain acceptable at about 13 percent if project costs were to increase by
10 percent and, at the same time, benefits were to decrease by 10 percent.
A switching value test was also performed and indicated that if total project
costs were to increase by about 32 percent or benefits were to decrease by
24 percent, the project's ERR would still be 12 percent, which is the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Mexico. An unlikely two years delay in project
construction would reduce the ERR to 12.5 percent.



- 20 -
Environmental Impact
80.       The project would not have any harmful effects on the environment
and would prevent increasing erosion from progressive deterioration of soil
structures under current rainfed cultivation practices. Chemicals used to
control pests and diseases would be applied following prescribed procedures
and application would be closely monitored by extension agents who would
also train farmers in their safe use.
Project Risks
81.       There are no unusual risks for the project.  The project design has
taken into account potential water shortages. An analysis of the seasonal and
annual variations in the Ocoroni River runoff indicates that the El Sabinal
reservoir capacity is about twice the projected annual demand of water and is
sufficient to cover expected levels of water consumption and the risk of water
shortages is well within the acceptable safety margin standards of SARH.
Irrigation would not bring about generation of water logging or salinity
because of the drainage system and the careful allocation of water to the farm
lands. The project phasing and production projections took due account of the
basic skills that the farmers have acquired in the off-farm activities in
adjoining irrigation districts and the design of an adequate technical assis-
tance program to improve their experience and train them in farm management,
operation of irrigation schemes and judicious use of water.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
82.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Nacional Financiera,
S.A., the draft Guarantee Agreement between United Mexican States and the
Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
83.       Special conditions of the project have been described in Part IV
of this report and are listed in Section III of Annex III.
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
85.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments



-21 -                                        ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                                            Page  1  of  5
MEXICO - SOCIAL UDICATORS DATA ShEET
MEXICO                        REFERENCE  ROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AiS
LOD  R   (THOUSAND SO KM.)                                                           - MDST RECENT ESTIMATE
TOTA             1972.3"
AGRICULTURAL     977.2                                  MOST RECENT             MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE IMECE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBE EARO
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  380.0        710.0    1290.0                1384.1                    2381.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      770.0       1047.0    1384.0                1055.9                    1641.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (MILLIONS)      36.4         50.3      65.4
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 51.0          59.0      65.2                  63.4                      53.9
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN TEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                       116.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                         205.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                   2075
POPULATION DENS ITY
PER SQ. AD.                        18.0         26.0      33.0                  28.1                      77.2
PER SQ. A0t. AGRICULTURAL LAND     36.0         52.0      67.0                  81.7                     129.5
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PEKCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          45.6         46.5      45.6                  41.4                      30.6
15-64 YRS.                          51.0        50.0       50.9                  54.7                      61.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    3.4          3.5       3.5                   3.9                       8.2
POPULATION GROWTH RATE- (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               3.1          3.3       3.3                   2.7                       1.6
URBAN                               5.0          4.8       4.6                   4.1                       3.3
CRUDE BIRTh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      45.0         42.0      38.0                  34.8                      22.8
CRUDE DEATh RATE (PER THOUSAND)      12.0          9.0       8.0                   8.9                       8.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2          3.1       3.0                   2.5                       1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         25.1     845.7
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..      21.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           97.0       100.0      101.0                 106.9                     113.1
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRENENTS)                   110.0        112.0     114.0                 107.4                     125.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0         66.0      66.0                  65.6                      91.0
OF WhICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        27.0         27.0      27.0                  33.7                      39.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) NORTALITY RATE      14.0          9.8       6.0                   8.4                       4.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    58.0          62.4      65.0                  63.1                      67.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
ThOUSAND)                            78.0         74.0      60.0                  66.5                      55.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..         54.0      62.0                  65.9
URBAN                                ..         71.0      70.0                  80.4
RURAL                                ..         29.0      49.0                  44.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..                  62.3
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..                  79.4
RURAL                                ..         13.0      14.0                  29.6
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           1700.0       1481.0    1815.0                1849.2                    1030.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..       1613.0    1398.0                1227.2                     929.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             617.0       831.0      851.0                 480.3                     289.7
URBAN                                ..        549.0     758.0
RURAL                                ..       1289.0    1077.0
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..                    ..                      17.0
ROUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               5.4          5.7
URBAN                               5.7          5.7
RURAL                               5.2          5.8     .
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               2.9          2.5
URBAN                               2.6          2.2
RURAL                               3.4          3.2
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                *          59.0
URBAN                                ..         80.7
RURAL                                *          28.0



- 22 -                                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
MEXICO - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
MEXICO                       REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAES
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
MOST RECENT              MIDDLE INCOME          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b    LATIN AMERICA 6 CARIBBEAN           EUROPE
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 80.0        104.0     116.0                  99.7                    105.9
MALE                  82.0       107.0      119.6                 101.0                    109.3
FEMALE                77.0       102.0      114.0                 99.4                    103.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 11.0         22.0      39.0                  34.4                     64.0
MALE                  14.0        27.0       42.0                 33.5                     71.1
FEMALE                 8.0        17.0       36.0                 34.7                     56.9
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY) 24.0           24.0         *-                 38.2                     28.8
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            44.0         46.0      46.0                  30.5                     29.4
SECONDARY                          13.0         14.0      17.0                  14.5                     26.1
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        65.0         74.0      76.0                  76.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         14.0         24.0      42.4                  43.0                     84.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         91.0        278.0     306.0                 245.3                    192.2
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         18.0         60.0      85.0                  84.2                    118.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
LNTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  79.0           ..        ..                  63.3                     93.0
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA 10.0           5.0       4.2                    ..                      5.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    10993.0       14493.5   18951.2
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   15.2         17.4      19.0                  22.2                     30.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              55.1         45.0      39.0                  37.1                     37.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 19.5         23.0      26.0                  23.5                     29.3
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.2.        28.8      28.8                  31.5                     40.9
MALE                                 51.1         47.4      46.8                  48.9                     55.9
FEMALE                                9.2         10.1      10.7                  14.0                     26.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.6         1.7       1.7                   1.4                      1.0
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  61.1/c        60.7      57.7
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    3.4/c         3.3       2.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    9.8/c         9.9       9.9
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     270.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     216.0                 190.8
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                .,           ..     332.0                 474.0
RURAL                                ..           ..     332.0                 332.5                    385.8
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..
RURAL                                ..
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970  between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1974 and 1978.
/c   1963.
April, 1980



- 23 -                                                                            ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
DWINITIMS O? IMOdL IfDICATOfS
Na-e   Aithoeg  the dat. eta dre  fro  -nre  5a-11y (edgd the tait eathooittae   end  allable, *it ahold alao ho totd that they my tot he  ote-
eatiooliy  oeprable hat.  of lb. look of etedardiend deftititn   and eonc.pt   ad by diff-rot e-twcie. incoiletiag  the data.  The dat. Ien,toe
thela...  _tf e  to de-cib, order. of npitede, iMltos. tende., et  oh-totoia  certain  -aJo. dOtffrooca. beta..c-                    ti.
TbI::.-rfret  genp  ar  (I) the te "Caty greep of the eabjact coatry ad (2) A ootry groop with atetawbt highe  aerg  ieee  thee the o-tory groop
of th  abjac  oo-at4y  ett for "Cpital S-iorl   Oil Ieportera' gong ther  'iddie ta-n  North ifrioa cad Kiddie feet  ia  hftem  batt-  of ntreege
eeco-tgtoaieffott.. .   Co herfeen . gro  dot. the o-orag. ott per-tto  weighted aritheaic  -at  toe ok tettee-r and  h-a  only whet at
le.a  halfof the catrian  to a gTop he. date foe that  Seiet                I--. the ovrgof  -etoita  mg  the  .iedtcatre depeda t- the availability of
data ad Lo net -if.w-,  -too   met ha neerteed to releti.g awnga  of  -  iodteetr to another.  Th....  -.rege  ere tely te.afo1 it ceporieg the  -aite
of on  iedi.tete  to e Ctim    ..g  the eastry end eaeene  ttpe.
LAIM AMA (thoetoed nq.hn.)                                                                   oeaitorIbeceo-ropelattoc divoded by oone  ot pretlitog Phy-
Total - Totel eeefaoe arae      .ite       .ad  -e  ead inland water..                      eiieo        lf_t  to    deica1 -choi at -i-verity la.ol.
Aeiteltoeal1 -  lainata ofCereiwe   r.  Iedteoarl   tepeoatly                             Poowlati   oa -Criea Paean - Popelatito ditidod by t.hbe of poet.titiog
oet pe.petta.., sacht ad kit- aerdan  or to lie follow; 1q77 date.                 edo en  fenel  greda-tetoesa .lpticol oore                  ...o aneltantore.
Powlateete  toetal  nd- tta. obe.   - tta  - Popoltin f total,
GNP PR CAITA (U09) - GO per -pita aetiatee at tornt earht prioto, tei-                        as. n   aa)  iie   yteeepci                          hr of  -epicaI bade
teleted hy eeoev-oioo etbod eeWarld beak Atlaa (1916-78 baeie); 1960.                       availble it poblie an  private geral an  epecia1ted heapi talan w-
19Th , an  1978 deta.                                                                       habilitatioe,ontaee.  Ropitale era aetehltahetn Pata-oly ateffad
St CfgSiNP'f0? Pig CAPiA -  aalontpino   oneiiby at 1a.t on  phyeiciea.  ftetblih-tea     providieg pieciptlly ootodial
loop       CONUMPTON PR CAITA           1 .- pt_-f_S  (o.-I                                   core a- nt ieclnded.  eralhptaa  h-.a.,e ielada haalth and   die
and lIgnite, petelean,  etorel gee ca  hydro-, tocen  end geotharel elne-                   entere oat peettetly etaffed by a phyeitian (hat by a endioe1 nenietat.
"triity ) Itt kilstgn   of tel  qilatpae  -epite; 1t60, 197i,. cd 1978                      oeree, .1dwife, etc.) wihio  offar it-petiot a..t.adation ad prov,tde a
date.                                                                                       1initad reg  of eadica  faeilltt-e P.,Ioaatai    perpoee  erhan boapi-
tale laia da titi  peliocipo1 getrl cad epacialieed heepitele. and roral
POPULATION AU  VITAL STATISTICi                                                                .p,l    .              ..              .    4-     d-       .t   .  ..
Total Poat- o.adTetffl  of- A. of J.oly 3I; 19h0. 197t, -d 1978                           Adp. ee  oalo  roro   opTale endt nfia  adi                 earoity  canter..
"t..                                                               1W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rehoa.pieeIe divide.d hy ch. onher of bode -
Urbat Poooto  focent  ftictal) - itio  of orbet to total ppolatiat;
diffatee  deiition   Of  rban eree  eay aft o  ronparahility of deta                  HOUSING
_ag  _ot,irn; 1960, 1970, oad 1978 data.                                               A-era  Sitee of Hgo.eehold   oa-on-ear haceehold  - total. orha. an   M.4l-
Poenittiot Prolectio                                                                        A h-eahld  -oalta of eIr-p of ioditdaale eb,.ehe,    iigqatr
FPooeto  it  ee  20f00   Cor-t  Poptiltion, pooJoCttin  ore bte..d Ce  fli                end their  ote mole.  A boarder .,ldgIny           Frna   o  he bteclo dadi
total popaltiee by age cad .-o an  their netelity end fnotility ret...                  the hoe.aheld for etatieticol Pt."p..a
PrJecinprinto    a  neetelity occes oeiaof tbrna level  ten-beaetha. feren   a  to.-ttl   ra.ederl -Avragstn
taglife  "eptteny obirth  ienao   ith ettetyc per capita i...                            a   fprnapern   aolore,tdcrloeeidcoetoa
levo, end faneLa life aePecctoc etahiliiag st 77.5 yeare.  Th. par.-                    dre-Infee. reopeoCivl..  1 felbog  eolda....t-p.r..teid  et 'tl-een
etar  foC     atlt  rt   lthv  thra  lenn   aeie   decline to                           otocpied parte.
fertility   origt   Ioon  leve  end p-e  f-dly pleaig  efoeoe                        Aea  to Elett-tt  it ct of dwelline  - total. arha.teroa-
oehf-otiry i. that atelnod  -n  of the ae rite  -bientida of sartelity                  Convetionl fwellioee with alectetity  it hob   qeartera IIeetg
Et"d frIliyJrad           oep tjeco   p-tpeee.                                           of ctotl, orhat  aod roral dealI.itfaropect-vly.
i     tia 12iteaecrlati    -"I a: accotyppulc       hr   s to rwh  i.eo
the bircth rate is aqe1 to the death rate, and slat the eNe eteo.tere ea- IA
mien c_toct.  Thin ie achieved  _tly  ft.e fertility reran dtlite tO                  AdJoetd fetolleete tatita
the replt-net ira  of ot oat reprodetiotete., whet each ganartiot                       piotaho      oa.mi                  earioettl  sale  od f ana.
of w-a etPl-ca  itnoif  -eclY.  The etatiotey ptpoletion eiet  In noiatfolae  at the primary leo a..   pecatge f reepatti-o
teinted o- cho hoae  ft the proJooted teeirtct f the popolccti.                         peinory tho-g  pooeina                nily ieiodae childea  egad 6-il
it the year 20001. ed the rott of de-Iito of feecility tete to replete-                   yanre hot tdjeted f or differoot laagthe of prinety  doottiot; for
Y-7b.-i;;.1 P.-I-C.. C. --Id - Th. yC  h..     p.p1.1i.              coontries.ith otireat.I ado...cio.t...atrolet nay oeocd .100 poectoc
tet heloo   ooaioi-oce  -Teyaeta   ttooypplto                                           sieca am  popile ore ha1m  or cov  the officie1 echool 0g..
a~ ieeb.  beeny rece.                                                                      aoday echtol - totel. nab  cad f lel   - C.epoted a. oboc; ...c.tdar
Povolkociodtt   ..1.i.  .    ql iieoeitv                       e0fdottti eo                                       Itna   Ir..tetf_or Yate  of opprtd Pi-try iercit
Pe a.  a.-  idper  orlato   PO   tior  iloecr  li  hctra)  fprovidee garel coeconl.t  toacher trat.ig   srottefoe popib
tota  tote.o.olly Of 22 t                                                                                       t17  eer  of age; cotrepoodo.... c..re.e er.a.geoa.aly
Peeee  hk. oeittrlland - C.nyptd oa above foe ogricoltoeal lud                              oclodd.  1   .1
Only. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~V toot tona   aoool tia feecet of sacndaey) -r ...ttiotol itstitoti...
PPoo,tyoite Al. Stoc.tora fteecetr - Childean (0-l4  er),orCkiog-aga (15-                      iocado tahtoa,  odoetlia,ooteprgao hchpeteiep-
h4 yeC.r). en  eatired (65 yare an  eve) an peocotega. of aid-year p.p.-                    dityo  s   eotet  of.1 seodry tbeacitotiete.                      t.id..
Ieeiot; 1960, 1970. aod 1978 deta.                                                        Poo-tsoy e red        ne.. end sotyo i- tt.ti  enatsoriedt
P title tlo              "I, Oi  fecn)J- ctlti - A--oa  groth rCea. of total aid-          prinaycd  eodrylvl  diiddbytohret  tchoa to-th
year  opoltion  foe 1950-hi,   907. nd 1970-8                                               cceeepooditg levels.
PPoeletiot Growh fte (eecat)- orhat - hotoaI geeh rote. of  ehot pOpO-                      Ad.lt IiLareoy ette  (Peteceot) - Litee...  sto lte Cobb  to etad ood -t.tt)
'aiO.fe19fA. 1960i-70. tod 1970-7                                                     A penp .c.attogr Of COWs  ndelt popolatl- aged ii y.Cr  andtoe
Crnda Birtb fec. fear theaoatd) - Aootl lIvr birch. per tho...ed of aid-year
p,poitite; 1900. I9197.   d 1978 deta..CONSUMPTINo
Cred  Goth gat  fear theotad> - Aoooal dnathe per tho..e.d of nid-yoor                    PasoerCtftehontpooco)-Peegrcretpis    tc
poptiatio; 91960, .1970, end 1978 data,                                                  ee  ettio  iee  chet-1.1 peea..      ; roi-d-   anholaBtton.  p. hecantd.
iroa: aedcio   aoAeag    oheo  dgt-gbeI o .o.aO .ill bear it                                niliteryo-hicle..
her   -Irel,cprodeccivo period if abe enpeeoeco.. prawot o-peifto fa-                   Rdia leiveo  fea  tho-sad ooeoleCi-e   - Ail type. of rec.ri-eo  f to redo
tillty tsto; ._oaly fiv-ye-  a-erag. todiag It 1960, 1970, eod 1977.                     broadecat  to  naa:        oie~0toeo    fpplco;ecow    ti
Pelr f    ttt    Acatoetoltfho-teds)  A- Aol to.e  of sconoctra                            -sed rCeitte  it ocoetead ic ytra ehee ottrttof ea!tt  e
of. bit-oto   eic.odr.eio  t   aitifnl  p                               Sto   pe.en.       te  it effoot; dfete. to  r..ett yeoos toy eat be c-poo-bl Icc    a
PnvPntoia-Oer   eect  onatdwnt)-Peneaof earned                                          Coootriea  bhliehed   Iate_g
-Oe  of child-baoeioa et (.15-44yca  who  be ieth-cotr-l dci... to                      i Tvaaiv'Ere fetehcboaed eoeolotio) - TV!rceor  foe broodoast to
all nareted  -ooIt am  og  groop.                                                         gaterl pohllC pte thotatod popolatiot;  oclade. olcted   rce-ivere
POWP ADf NUtTRITION                                                                            I  cotateir  end It y.c..he  reeattof TV sota wee to effttt.
Veeta   iectltio  (toe theoead oo tfoio) - Show  thoao-rogeirco]-
lode  of Food Perdo.ccb   por C'et  f(1969-71 jwj0   - odee of Per capita Ieoe              rito  dol   eoalitoe  topt", defined aaperiditolpo
prod.ctiot of oil fond tonoitlee.  Pondttit ei cidea teod o-d frd and                     lctita  'devote  prmailt  eoo...trdi-    tttel tne   fttectedne
-100 -oad-e yoer hba.    Coinditiee Cooe  peiar" god  ( .g.B ..gn.c.t                 to      daily' if itappeoraot leaet foor tines  deek
te   r   tldad).  Aggrrgote prodoctito of ..c.  ce_try II: heae.df. 00              Athe         Atetid dorwoth  yo F * C.iocetg   tatt   odov-t-ie
eatonl  veag  prd-Ce  Poict nigt.; f1901-05  1970,an I 1978 dt,,t. end                             ..hId ode.rigtIy..i..iSd.i.t   r-.i
Per Ceolta n=rly  f clet  (eecn         ,o oeiooota) - Conpoted f en
eoergyeqoivaot o   r   odspi .te evilehle it ..-otry per c pIta                     LABOR FOgaE
nepece  ed oeege  o eop    .pttppl    w    oid   tia   wd   ed,                    mdfooettoepor   o  eactd IaghetaivepC. aodit..etc.
qaattfeiAeot     b it foo    oceto.  n   toeito pditotboctipt.  iteie                 T0
natte oot estiated byPAt head 00 phyetologilo1 tend. foe toel aeti-             Dofiitiotet  it -oei...   crittoite  toe toccoperabt; 1960, 1970 end
otetdiatrihoticoo-      ooait   o   loi9I  pettfewsea                             atotr ftrococ)               lebor forc   in p faotog. foreacey     otit.b  end.
hbooehbald Ievt; 1961-tI. 19701..od 1977 deta___t                       . .P            fei"      a  ecacg  o   otllbo  foeo; g,   1970 t ord 1970. tota
Pa to  c   oev  foott (rn   a  ar       rtc  cteto   eecpc                              ooer   eett  - Labor foece Ic  icoig, o--Ceatioo. eaefoocorttg
net etyplycf toot pe   dty.      i tat  top y 0  fooDA p-de fite  cecoe.t-           d electrioley, otter end gas .  poecettc  of ceta1lbithr foote;19,
qoiea-tefo  all tootf trtea eratabiahe Cd by lil   proid  for.  ftIol                   2970 otd 2979 date.
olowoc  o  h  gen  o  tte  rotitye  tp  ot20oeeeofotae  cd      a     -t-eeto  ttef.---t -coti el. cnd feel  - P-octptiot tr
pcla  pe i., of obteh 10 ocano ehooi ht eoino1 proCio.  iThtee otaod-                  eotiviteyc-tws -eoopotedaa           e, sat,-d fIal   thoifrt  t
tode ore I-o  that thoat of 75 toe  of toto1 P-oteio atd 23 gEet of                     perc...teta of total, nit andfIeeepplcbto   i  ie  epoioy
ocinl po ctt a  otavoaofor tho  cl,  propospod by fAt to tho Tir                191f91   n   95dt,i  r   0   L'                 patiato  octe  eafP:ictio
Ocriptt.PndVrcy  lOhI-h, 197  tot. 1977                                                        17,. deco.- T  ....  L'.pCtl,ti.Ct.-f-i
Poe cocdite edrotl   oty    o   caladelt    rti  apl   ffndCdw-                           og -easeo o  of thr poooio,ad Iott tint  -oce.  A fee tori-
etond  oon tomela nd polee to  rane pr dey;1961-h, ioc  end 177 doc.   Oooontc leaodeeo tatf   - tact of ppo9eoot ottr915 ot hi stftor
Child  ,faen1.)~  otlitdy Mtac  fear thoeeatd) - totoal t6aha pee theoeaot to                t.th  total labor foeco.
not group 1-4 yooro, co chtild-  io thia   . troop; for toot dwv-loeitccog
etee. dato tt-t-e  f rot lift eablee; 1960, 2970 ood 1977 dat...                     INCOM  DISTRIBUTION
HEALTHt                                                                                      Peo.. Ctetaef Poicoct lo-t  (both to .eeb atd kied) - iecotv-d by oitheet
Lifa toEtratt-y attth(eota) d- Av-rogo n-othr of Ytoe of lift ooaolo                         5perc..ot, rcheat 20 per-te, pooeoat 20 par-et, otd p..root A0 ptoCret
at biech; 1960, 197  o-d 1978 data.                                                       of   horbi
loa.te Mrtality tate foercthooa,odj - A..oaI toetha of itfootoottar tey.rc              rccnVtlTiit
of te  e  thooead liv  bith.                                                          E.tmntid Abecoct. P-v-t} . -bon  Leve fll( eec caoibta)-ohoto   o
Neete  f popl  frtel  orot,ottrof ti) ti-   etetol  ooe r d        tt               orri Ioolyodeqottr diet ploneottlctfodrIirecei                        s  to
tatec eti ot tet fronp-ocett4 torhioles, tpritg, od aetiteryei)e                  E.titotd RtlocivePovry.c.          olvl(t)crtnI)-oh-to   eo 
PMcc t...e ofh thir repac-i- PoPoletitcoa          . . ttorbeteroapobit                   to ot  relttivt  -oety iton    ott  cetido  oveag   pee cert1
fottio or ot_dp_s  loCtetd -t tort thee 200  -ee- fr-. I h....enahe                     prolionafte rootyb   obo I                   ve - teir deie   fotheetea
coteiderd oe belt tithi    Ceeehe acet  fththot.   trtoi  ea                       loi tih od)oetnat  for higrcot of liciog itorbteota
dooth boor~ to eped a diepeoporcItooaC  poet of the day it f-htbtg the                     cod ooal-Prcet  of..I pooattico   ..ha cot  coo l)-eh  ore'aa lbttpor'
rooel-Ntehecctpeoplo  (tocal. orboc.r cotp. torel)rb-  -daer1vehbyaccrttat
diarco... I   ectat   f tbhtire-p-ctbepooerc E- tr-t  die-                                                               EtooonJo aot 5ot1 late l11iieo
pelsyitlode  h   olcitadooot,  olb r -olC1            I 1h-o  tertnIt.                                        tcooeo Ao.. l  ott pro)ectioee loporCCeo
of heoctcreoard         'Iat-tte, yyfe-cn    reotc   itort                                                                        April. 1980
Pit Poiciee oct otllrtot Ito.



sICO -   XCOsu        1UST6 DATA8SO                                                              A8O   I.,
Pape 4 o 
PrelOtatry
~~~~~~~~~~~lotS_tD                       O         ProRe2                                                   A'l Cr2 -t GSofCDY
1970         1970        1977         157        1979         1980        1902       1985    1170-iS  Af1  80lf l!!       1970    1978      1982
NATIONAL 4100r1                                      Coatopt 1972  ria... U88 Milliots
Gross Donasti  Product                  36,970.4      48,510.9    50.949.6     54,436.2  58,802.9     63,511.9    74,260.2  94,042.9       5.6      3.9     8.1      100.3   99.4       93.5
Gai- frto  TorfO  Trade                  - 114.1         438.8       801.9        327.5   1,283.8       3,525.6     5,125.0    6,844.3     -       -9.3    98.9      -0.3      0.6       6.5
Goose Oo.sscS.   'om                    36,856.3       8,949.6    51,171.6     54,763.6  60,086.7     67,037.5    79,385.2  100,887.1      5.8      3.8     9.7    100.0  100.0        100.0
I0orts (inolodt  *8)                     3,754.4      5,835.8      4,787.8      6,426.5   9,256.3     10,428.4    13,931.6   18,416.6      9.2      3.3    21.3      10.2    11.7       17.5
Onpoote (ip-ort Cpacity)                 3,016.6      46109.4      4,751.3      6,264.0   7,646.7    10,662.0    13,677.7   17,809.0       6.4     15.1   21.6         8.2    11.4      17.2
Rsoouro-  Gop                              737.8       1,786.4        36.3        163.5     609.6     -  233.7        253.9      607.7    10.4   -54.5      -          2.0     0.3      -0.3
Cou ptior                               30425.4    40,149         41,931.4     44,093.2  67,921.7     52,396.0   61,457.4   78,492.2       5.7      3.2     8.7      82.6   80.5        77.4
Iooaainnt                                7,168,7     10,526.9      9,376.6    10,233.0  12,774.6      14,408.1   18,181.9   23,003.2       8.0      1.0t!  13.8      19.5    19.8       22.9
Gross Lo-eic SOeio                       6,430.9      8,800.6    9,540.1    10,670.5  12,165.0        14,641.8   17,928.0   22,395.6       6.5      6.6    13.9      17.4    19.5       22.6
Gro.s Notional S.VOog                    5,995.3       7,701.9     8,247.3      9,373.3  10,529.1     13,022.6   16,430.8   20.938.2       5.1      6.8    15.1      16.3    17.1       20.7
TRADS IS OODS AND N8r                                Currant Pricas.  05 Xillion As                                                                                             7 of Tt.1
IMPOTS, TO.TAL                              2L073.2      8,636.7      7.855.0    11.466.4  16,739.9      24,263.2   38,299.6   61,827.8       20.4     9.9    35.1    100.0  100.0        100.0
Food                                                    49.3  -   475.1           605.7     723.0      1,422.5     1,729.7    2.704.6      46.3     6.7    30.0       0.3      5.3       4.5
Potrooloaso d Prodocta                      26.2         269.1       107.5        167.1    259.5         298.4        354.5      434.2     37.6  -14.7    20.7         1.3     1.5       0.9
Other Goode                              1,527.5      5,845.4      5,338.1      7,444.8  11,272.2    16,086.1    26,246.4   42,006.2       21.3     8.4    37.0       73.6    64.9      68.5
on -Puctor Sorvicas                        513.6      2,022.9      1,934.3      3,248.8   4,4U5.2      6,456.2     9,969.0   16,682.6    13.7    17.1    32.4         24.8   28.3       26.0
EXPORTS. TOTAL                1/            1,964.6       2.74535     6.081,7     11,176.4  15.503.6     24,806.9    37,601.6   597_87.7       6.9    22.5    35.4    100.0   100.0       100.0
S lOrttd Agriculturtl Goods                642.4         711.6       954.2      1,974.7   2,308.       2,799.0      3,419.7    4,391.4      2.1    28.4    14.7       32.7    17.7       9.1
Patrclno  nod Product,                      40.1          38.4       460.1      1,793 3   3,789.3     10 321.7    17 534.9   28,541.2    -0.9    57.4    76.8          2.0    16.0      46.6
Solortrd  tisrola                          189.7        244.3        457.6        548,8     952.2      1,127,8     1,447.3    1,992.0       5.2     9.0    27.4        9.7     4.9       3.8
Ooncfaroorna                               132.5         326.9     1,069.3      2,143.6   2,372.6      2,946.8    4,083.4    6,301.4       19.8   26.1    17.5         6.7    19.2      10.9
Otb r Goods                                133.9          26.6        63.3          -         -            -            -          -        -       -       -          -_      -         -
Noc-Ocotor Sorvica                         806.0      1,397.7      3,077,2      4,716.1   6,080.6      7,701.5    11,116.4   18,311.7      11.6    15.3    23.9       41.1    42.2      29.6
7.11ADE INDICES                                           Avrz 72l10
toport Potco loden                          87.7         I 6.7      171.3         188.3     243.7        347.6        439.6      454.3    13.6      4.4    23.6
Irport P7ic  I2d5                           91.0        14.0        164.1         178.4     302.7        232.7       274.9       335.7     10.2     6.4    11.4
Yarns of Trods                              96.4         112.0       104.4        105.5     120.2        149.4        159.9      162.4      3.0   -2.0    11.0
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                                 Sostent 1972 Pric-. US09 Mlli.o.                                                                                         A. X of Total
Pri-ury                                  3,644.6      4,139.0      4,483.2      4,347.1   4,920.7      3,019.1      5,221.9    5,541.5      2.6     1.6     1.4      19.2    12.7        7.0
S-cordory                                6,139.9     12,416.9    16,948,2      17,429.6  21,958.6     24,066.6    28,909.2   37,869.3       8.8     6.4     9.6      26.4   30.5        38.9
Tntriary                                14,818.7    20,422.7    27,075.5       27,507.8  31,923.5     34,426.2    40,129.1   50,632.1       6.6     3.0     8.0      54.4    56.8       54.0
Tto.1 GDP                               26,603.2    36,978.6    48.506.9    49,283.3  58,802.9        63,511.9   74,260.2  94,042.9         6.8     5.6     8.1    100.0  100.0        100.0
CONSOLIDATED PUBLIC SEC00R FINANCES                                                                                                                                            . % of GDY
Corront Rocespto                         5,841.0      9,447.1    10,497.1      12,196.4  13,716.7     16,482.8    20,328.5   26,284.3      1O.I     0.9    13.6      13.9    22.3       25.6
lorront loponditores                     4,316.6      9,947.2     9,108.7      10,346.6  10,805.9     12,488.5    15,016.3   19,718.7      13.7     3.0     9.8      11.7    18.9       16.9
Poblic S-vings                           13515.2        499.6      1,388.4      1,849,8   2,830.8      3,994.4      5,312.1    6,565.6    -20.0     54.7   30.2        .1      3.4       6.7
Rosoorcon for Invastasut                 1 602.8        570.1      1,484.6      2,065.0   2,871.7      4,1.0 0      5,469,8    6,716.7   -18.7      53.6   22.6        4.3     3.8       6.9
hIcOstsuct                               2,265.2      4,943.9     4,381.4       5,409.0   6,842.7      7,512.8    9,698.0   11,929.6    16.4         3.7   15.7        6.1     9.9      12.2
D ficit (cot)                              662.4      4,275,8      2,896.8      3,344.0   3,971.0      3,400.0      4,228.2    5,212.9     45.2     -7.9    6.0        1.8     6.1       5.3
ALLOCATION OF GROSS PU6LIC SEC8oR
EXPEN8DITURES                                                                                                                                                                     . of 1ota
nery                                         -        5,369.1      6,474.1      7,736.9   6.938.2          _                                        12.9     -       27.0    31.7
TSoaipoot sd Connccicction.                           1,751.1      1,503.3      1,537.4   1,612.2          _           _          -         -       -4.2     -        8.8      6.3       -
Social Walfra_                                        4,221.9     4,602.0       4,771.8   5,020.2          -           -                             4.2     -       21.3    19.6
Indostry                                     -        1,640.0     1,455.6      1,392.4   1,641.5           -          -           -         _       -5.3     -        8.3      5.7
Agtriclt-oo  .nd Ocral DOvalopn at           -        1,977.1      1,617.5      1,562.7   1,991.9          -          -           -         -       -7.5     -       10.0      6.4       -
Gnoorc1 Adnioistrotio  and Dsfan-o           -        3,290.8      5,160.8      5 552.2   5,450.0                                                   19.0     -       16.6    22.8        -
Co.rot                                       -        1,531.7      1,436.9      1,785.2   1,481.7                     -                              5.2     -         7.7     7.3
To-ris-                                                  63.2         73.5         53.9      57.2          -          _           _         -       -3.2     -        0.3      0.2
Total                                        -       19,843.9    22.323,7      24.392.5  24,505.4          -          _           _         _        7.1     -      100.0  10o.o         _
SE.LCTED INDICATORS                                                                                                                                                    I966/73 1971/75  l-937;2
1C0R                                         2.02         3.31        6.92          2.70      2.48         2.71       2.90         2.92     4.11     4.75    3.22     3.28    3.98    1T327
Ispoot Oloo-lity                             1.29         0.60       -4.54          5.03      3.55         3.29       1.64         1.14     1.65     0.83    2.64     1.11    1.44      1.47
arRiDKl Sovisga Rotio                        0.01        -0.02         0.20         0.31      0.22         0.36       0.20         0.22     0.14     0.29    0.30     0.15    0.16      0.28
V.oie Added Po- W-ok-o (1972 Pri..)
On Hillions     A 2 of Total      1960-1970                               i of Av-rons
LABOR FORCE AND OUTPUT PR W80RK3R           1980   1970     1960      1970     Groutb R te     1960          1970         1960        1970           -ooth Rots
Agtir.lct-r                               5.4   5.1       50.5    39.2        -0.6          608.0         939.0         34.7        33.0            4.4
Industry                                  2.1    3.0     19.6     23.1         3.6        2,468.9       4,134.9       140.6        145.0            5.3
S-rfco-                                   3.2    4.9     29.9      37.7        44         3,222.8       4,044.8       183.6        142.0            2.3
Tot-l                                    10.7   13.0    100,0   150.0          2.0        1,755.6       2,847.6       100.0        100.0            5.0
I/ Inclodoo og.ar.
2/ This los rats of groth So row d by a peak in pabilS  Inve-t  3t in 1975.
Tha protjoted rats for 1977-82 is boot 132.



1911- ~~~                   N         N-C  o,=C  oNC    N-  N- a NN~C~ W ~         CC a e--C 9      w-C   e.D CCC   oaa
eN -  g   Nt   CCN NN,C N--                     g     ,     NN-N          C     *     --~N  D N C   _ t      W*
DCN                   N                                          N D                                -- _C Ne " 
e ~ ~ ~ ~                              eC                   .NUN            -     NoN
e ~  ~     ~     ~     C                                    ON                     .-ta C~Ct 0 t
s ~  ~     ~    ~     -     _CN    N                                                                     I I. IC tN -N
N    H           0h   - -4  NNCCC  IC Cm -C1 Wt W            t..--t                 rHW>2@WU l ] ye 
NCN              _                     Oom          CCN    0                        C-      N0 U          N-C   7 soou_XTWPH    zO   
N  - UN-N-~~C-                     m    I-N  O        1- a                      1- n   N D-N             N    I; 
ONN     CN!   0  S               1  | UC                                                            C-N IN-  5>O>9    \ O@1.i.0t>zV    ,~o_@W_ |
N-                         ^                                       UCw    N  O    oNe    C-C-   N-
N-N-~~ N  N  ,w N     tN{r~F         @     .N  -  
NC-N              g   r-   Co                    N-   s    J os9wI>                7>0WAAbo~oSi                                 o
N            ,E     ~'-.0                                                  )   o      w         CC      NoCN >Dse_bH    DW DQ 
N~ ~~~ ~ ~      ~ C11 -<  N-
|t C F~  Nfi                                                               N      ge>8'                 o*     
.C     . N-FN'N'N.N-  CNC-Nr -            CCN N-_ o w                                  o oN   N   o-.CN-  -  
-~~~~~~~~~ OSSSIN-Noowoo maNN              N.-
N~ ~ ~~~N   -N ,N                   C-C-CC                          CCC o---           L  CC                 o
C -L o--N    N-                        NC-NNC    - o-LN-C   N-                                            I   _FC rC .'
-N~~~ ~~ ,  N-  -N  N-CNCCNC          O N--NN   r                           N - N W- -W N         w-
lo  o    wewo   16  F                 e   t00o>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~wsOOs~~~~'w       bw       w~~~-
O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                            N-C. s  
.NN                              OC-----N--CNCNN



- 26 -                     ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MEXICO
A.   Statement of Bank Loans (as of July 31, 1980)
Loan                                                         Amount less    Undis-
No.    Year          Borrower              Purpose          Cancellations   bursed
37 loans fully disbursed                         1,760.4
909      1973  NAFINSA                     Water Supply            90.0        27.3
968      1974  NAFINSA                     Roads                   90.0        14.9
970      1974  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              47.0        27.2
1022      1974  NAFINSA                     Airports                25.0         3.1
1053      1974  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development          50.0        36.3
1110      1975  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         110.0          6.4
1111      1975  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              50.0        39.1
1112      1975  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                50.0         5.8
1186      1975  BANOBRAS                    Water Supply            40.0        25.6
1232      1976  Ferrocarriles Nacionales
de Mexico and NAFINSA    Railways                 100.0        44.3
1420      1977  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 42.0        33.0
1462      1977  NAFINSA                     Integrated Rural
Development         120.0        81.1
1524      1978  NAFINSA                     Tourism                 50.0        14.3
1552      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry                47.0        19.7
1553      1978  NAFINSA                     Agriculture             56.0        52.2
1554      1978  BANOBRAS                    Urban Development       16.5        14.6
1560      1978  NAFINSA                     Industry               100.0        42.0
1569      1978  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  200.0          37.9
969-1    1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              25.0        10.0
1643      1979  NAFINSA                     Small-scale Agri.       60.0        58.3
1671      1979  BANOBRAS                    Highways               120.0       120.0
1686      1979  FERTIMEX and NAFINSA        Industry                80.0        62.0
1706      1979  NAFINSA                     Irrigation              92.0        92.0
1712      1979  NAFINSA                     Industry               175.0       165.3
1820      1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Mining               40.0        40.0
1858 1/   1980  NAFINSA                     Irrigation             160.0       160.0
1881 1/   1980  NAFINSA                     Small and Medium
Scale Industry      100.0       100.0
1891      1980  NAFINSA                     Agricultural Credit  325.0         325.0
TOTAL                                             4,220.9 2/ 1,657.3
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                633.8
Total now outstanding                             3,587.1
Amount sold                     92.3
of which has been repaid        91.6                   .7
Total now held by Bank 2/                         3,586.4
Total Undisbursed                                             1,657.3
1/   Loan approved by Executive Directors in FY80, but not yet signed.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 9
B.     STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of July 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                               US$ Million
Year          Obligor                    Type of Business      Loan   Equity  Total
1958/59  Industrias Perfect
Circle, S.A. 1/              Industrial Equipment    0.8       --      0.8
1958     Bristol de Mexico, S.A. 1/    A.C. Engine Overhaul    0.5         --     0.5
1961     Acero Solar, S.A. 1/            Twist Drills             0.3      --     0.3
1962/65/ Compania Fundidora
66/68    Fierro y Acero de
Monterrey, S.A.              Steel                     2.3    21.4   23.7
1963     Tubos de Acero de
Mexico, S.A. 1/              Steel                     0.9     0.1    1.0
1963     Quimica del Rey, S.A. 1/        Sodium Sulphate          0.7      --     0.7
1964/66  Industria del Hierro, S.A.1/  Construction Equipment  --          2.0    2.0
1970     Minera del Norte, S.A, 1/       Iron Ore Mining          1.5      --     1.5
1971     Celanese Mexicana, S.A.         Textiles                12.0      --    12.0
1972     Promotora de Papel
Periodico, S.A. de C.V.1/   Pulp and Paper              2/      2/      2/
1973/79  Cemento Veracruz, S.A.          Cement                  15.9      --    15.9
1974     Cancun Aristos Hotel            Tourism                  1.0      0.3    1.3
1975/78  Mexinox, S.A.                   Steel                   12.0      3.2   15.2
1978     Papeles Ponderosa, S.A.         Pulp and Paper           9.0      2.6   11.6
1978     Tereftalatos Mexicanos, S.A.  Petrochemicals            19.0      --    19.0
1979     Cementos Tolteca, S.A. 3/       Cement                 100.0      --   100.0
1979     Hotel Camino Real
Ixtapa, S.A.                 Tourism                   --      2.3    2.3
1979     Conductores Monterrey,          Electrical Wire
S.A. 3/                        and Cable            18.0     --    18.0
1980     Industrias Resistol, S.A. 3/  Particleboard             25.0      --    25.0
1980     Vidrio Plano de Mexico S.A.3/ Flat Glass               114.9      --   114.9
1980     Minera Real de Angeles,
S.A. de C.V. 3/              Mining                  110.0     --   110.0
1981     Celulosicos Centauro S.A. 3/  Pulp and Paper            59.5      --    59.5
Total Gross Commitments                                503.3    31.9  535.2
Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayment
and Sales                                            371.0    22.1  393.1
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                      132.3     9.8  142.1
Total Undisbursed (including participants)             198.1       --  198.1
1/   Investments which have been fully cancelled, terminated, written off,
sold, redeemed or repaid.
2/   US$25,000.
3/   Gross commitment including amounts sold to participants.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
PROJECTS IN EXECUTION: PROGRESS AND PROBLEMS 1/
Ln. No. 909    Mexico City Water Supply Project:  $90 Million Loan of
June 18, 1973; Effectiveness Date: April 30, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Overall, the majority of the project works as originally
defined have been completed. The Executive Directors agreed to
amend the Project Description to include new works which would
serve the same objective of increasing bulk water supply to the
Mexico City metropolitan area (R79-307). There are problems
with implementation of these works due to discrepancies between
SARH and the Comision de Aguas del Valle de Mexico (CAVM)
concerning the need to carry out works in Presa Madin and to
the decision by the Government not to give priority to the
Ecatepec Treatment Plan.
Ln. No. 968    Seventh Highway Project:  $90 Million Loan of March 1, 1974;
Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974. Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Substantial initial delays have been encountered in project
works because of the shortage of budgetary allocations.
Substantial cost increases caused by price escalation were also
encountered. Taking this into account, a reduction in the scope
of the project was made in August 1977, from 16 roads (1,975
km) to ten roads and part of an eleventh road (1,216 km) which,
because of cost increases, have the same total cost as the
original project. The roads remaining in the project continue
to be well justified as benefits have kept pace with costs.
Completion is now expected in early 1981, or about two and a
half years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 969-1  Rio Panuco Irrigation Project;  $25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Major project civil works are on schedule and expected to be
completed by the closing date. Progress in agricultural devel-
opment has been somewhat slower than infrastructure construction.
The technical assistance program has been strengthened and will
emphasize better water utilization and intensive agriculture.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in that sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
Ln. No. 970    Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  $47 Million Loan of
March 1, 1974; Effectiveness Date: May 29, 1974.
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project authorities have rephased construction; a substantial
reduction in project scope was approved by the Executive
Directors (R79-51 of March 13, 1979). Progress is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1022   Airport Development Project:  $25 Million Loan of
May 28, 1974; Effectiveness Date: September 16, 1974.
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The project originally included the construction of seven
regional airports and the expansion of an existing one at
Campeche. Of these, the Guaymas airport works have been post-
poned by the Government because of interim improvements of the
existing airport carried out by the local municipality with its
own resources. At Campeche, the Government has decided to
construct a new airport with its own funds instead of improving
the existing airport. Loan proceeds allocated to Guaymas and
Campeche were reallocated in August 1977 to complete construction
of the six airports retained in the project. One of the six
airports has been completed and works in the other five airports
are proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1053   Papaloapan Integrated Rural Development Project:  $50 Million
Loan of November 15, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 27,
1975. Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Project implementation is improving after delays due to inade-
quate budget support. Reprogramming of the project is underway
to adjust for these delays. The closing date has been extended
accordingly.
Ln. No. 1110   Integrated Rural Development Project (PIDER I):  $110 Million
Loan of May 8, 1975; Effectiveness Date: October 29, 1975.
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
Project investments are generally on schedule. After an in-depth
mid-term evaluation in early 1979, project implementation has
been strengthened. PIDER management is taking steps to ensure
proper operation and maintenance of earlier PIDER investments.
Emphasis is also being given to improved cost recovery, invest-
ment analysis and programming, monitoring, and rural industries.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
Ln. No. 1111   Seventh Irrigation Project - Bajo Rio Bravo and Bajo Rio
San Juan: $150 Million Loan of May 8, 1975; subsequentlY
reduced to $50 Million; Effectiveness Date: July 30. 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
In view of the project's size, complexity and high cost, the
Government and the Bank agreed to phase project development over
a longer period of time and substantially reduce the scope of
the project to be financed under the Bank Loan (R77-305 of
December 13, 1977 and R79-56 of March 19, 1979). Progress on
the revised project is satisfactory.
Ln. No. 1112   Fertilizer Project:  $50 Million Loan of May 22, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: July 30, 1975. Closing Date:
March 31, 1981.
The Balio Urea Plant has been completed and the Pa-laritos Urea
Plant is expected to be completed by October 1980. The Parathion
Plant has also been completed. The project is, on average,
2-1/2 years behind schedule. Most of the commissioning work
will take place during the next 6-8 months, and no major
problems are expected. The estimated cost is about 35 percent
above the original budget, mainly due to increases in equipment
and civil works costs.
Ln. No. 1186   Medium Cities Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  $40 million
Loan of January 13, 1976; Effectiveness Date: April 26, 1976.
Closing Date: January 14, 1982.
Subloan agreements have been signed with seven cities, and
works are now progressing satisfactorily in all of them. This
is the result of several positive measures taken by the Mexican
authorities to accelerate project execution, including the
preparation and implementation of guidelines for project design
and the reorganization of the Special Project Unit in charge of
project execution. Construction is on schedule. At the
Government's request, the closing date was recently extended
from December 31, 1980 to January 14, 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. No. 1232   Third Railway Project:  $100 Million Loan of April 30, 1976;
Effectiveness Date: June 16, 1976. Closing Date: June 30,
1981.
The project had a slow start, traffic growth in 1976 was
less than anticipated, and funding in 1976-77 (the stabilization
period) was inadequate. The traffic took an upward swing in
1977, continued to rise in 1978, and 1979. As a result, the
operating and working ratios improved significantly. The
railway company has prepared a revised investment plan on the
basis of which new financial targets and a revised list of
goods have been prepared and accepted by the Bank. Due to
delays incurred in 1976-1977, the project will be completed in
late 1980, about two years behind schedule.
Ln. No. 1420   Baja California Tourism Project:  $42 Million Loan of
July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 28, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Construction of infrastructure at both project sites has begun.
The first 250-room hotel at Loreto was completed in August
1980. Project implementation is slightly behind schedule
due to shortages of building materials in the area now over-
come. An outline for the ecological and environmental study is
being reviewed in the Bank. The marketing studies of domestic
as well as North American tourism and the economic study of
tourism have been completed. Overall, progress is satisfactory,
although difficulties in internal coordination have caused
disbursements to lag behind schedule. Recent communications
with FONATUR indicate that bottlenecks are being eliminated.
Ln. No. 1462   Integrated Rural Development Project - PIDER II:  $120 million
Loan of July 5, 1977; Effectiveness Date: October 28, 1977;
Closing Date: July 31, 1981.
Implementation is on schedule. Project authorities have made
important progress in implementation of inter-agency agreements
to improve investment planning and execution.
Ln. No. 1524   Tourism Development Project:  $50 million Loan of March 21, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
A cofinancing loan of US$25 million was provided to the borrower
on December 1, 1978 by a group of commercial banks. Progress
of commitments is satisfactory.



ANNEX II
-32 -                     Page 7 of 9
Ln. No. 1552   Small- and Medium-Scale Industrial Development Project;
US$47 million Loan of May 4, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
January 12, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
After some initial delays, the integrated program to assist
industrial enterprises is making rapid progress. Forty-eight
extension agents have now received full training and have been
assigned to 14 regional offices. About two-thirds of the loan
have been committed.
Ln. No. 1553   Tropical Agricultural Development Project:  US$56 Million Loan
of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:  January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Five of the six pilot projects have been approved by the
Bank; the sixth is expected to be submitted shortly. Project
authorities are making excellent progress in the agricultural
development program of each pilot project. The applied
research programs are proceeding on schedule.
Ln. No. 1554   Lazaro Cardenas Conurbation Development Project:  US$16.5
Million Loan of September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date:
February 14, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The shelter-related component is having better than expected
results. Satisfactory progress has been obtained for the
training centers, but delays still remain in the implementation
of the Productive Credits, Industrial Premises and river control
components and the studies. Steps to speed implementation in
these areas have been recently discussed with the Government.
The possibility of reallocating funds to the shelter-related
components is being contemplated.
Ln. No. 1560   FONEI III:  US$100 Million Loan of September 27, 1978;
Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Demand for industrial investment financing continues to be
strong. The Bank Loan has been fully committed to date.
Ln. No. 1569   Sixth Agricultural Credit:  US$200 Million Loan of
September 27, 1978; Effectiveness Date: January 12, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Implementation is proceeding rapidly. The loan is expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1980, 18 months ahead of
schedule.
Ln. No. 1643   Small Scale Agricultural Infrastructure Project:  US$60 Million
Loan of February 6, 1979; Effectiveness Date: April 13, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
A number of livestock and irrigation subprojects have been
approved by the Bank, and the Government is accelerating
preparation and presentation of the balance of the program.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. No. 1671   Highway Sector Project:  US$120 Million Loan of August 23,
1979; Effectiveness Date: October 12, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Commitments are ahead of schedule but disbursements are behind
schedule because of budget cuts in 1979; the 1980 budget is
adequate.
Ln. No. 1686   Second Fertilizer Project - Lazaro Cardenas:  US$80 Million
Loan of May 18, 1979; Effectiveness Date: September 21, 1979;
Closing Date: October 31, 1982.
Project completion is delayed by about 12 months, to July 1982,
due to a revision of foundation requirements made after a severe
earthquake in the project area in March 1979. Preliminary
estimates indicate cost increases of about 20 percent. Civil
construction work is progressing satisfactorily. Basic engineer-
ing is about 95 percent complete, and detailed engineering is
about 50 percent complete.
Ln. No. 1706   Rio Fuerte/Rio Sinaloa Irrigation Project:  US$92 Million Loan
of July 30, 1979; Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: July 31, 1986.
Implementation is on schedule.
Ln. No. 1712   FONEI IV:  US$175 Million Loan of July 30, 1979;
Effectiveness Date: October 5, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Demand for industrial financing continues to be strong;
US$46.6 million of the loan have been committed to subprojects
to date, and additional subprojects requiring US$17.4 million
are being considered.
Ln. No. 1820   Small and Medium Scale Mining Development Project:  US$40
Million Loan of August 18, 1980;
Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
Not yet effective.
Ln. No. 1858   Apatzingan Irrigation Project; US$160 Million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: June 30, 1987.
Loan (locuments not yet signed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. No. 1881 Second Small and Medium-Scale Industry Development Project;
US$100 Million Loan of
Effectiveness Date:
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Loan documents not yet signed.
Ln. No. 1891   Seventh Agricultural Credit Project:  US$325 Million
Loan of August 15, 1980:
Effectiveness Date:                   I
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
MEXICO
OCORONI IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare project:          About 12 months.
(b)  Project prepared by:          Ministry of Agriculture and
Water Resources (SAHR).
(e)  First preparation mission:  December 1979.
(d) Departure of
appraisal mission:           April 1980.
(e)  Negotiations completed in:  September 1980.
(f) Planned date of
effectiveness:                January 1981.
Section II - Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a) Beneficiaries would pay: (i) the full operation and maintenance
costs of project works, and (ii) as much of the investment costs
as practicable. The levels of water charges would be based on a
socio-economic study to determine the farmers' ability to pay and to
be carried out by SARH by December 31, 1985, for subsequent submis-
sion to the Bank. It will be reviewed periodically to determine
adjustments required in such levels (para. 68).
(b)  SARH will maintain separate accounts adequate to reflect in accord-
ance with sound accounting practices the resources and expenditures
in respect of the project of the departments or agencies of the
Guarantor responsible for carrying out the project or any part
thereof and will annually furnish to the Bank a summary statement
of such accounts (para. 65).
(c) The Government will prepare a project completion report no later
than one year after the completion of loan disbursements (para. 62).
(d) The Government will provide short, medium and long-term credit
required by the farmers to utilize the facilities included in the
project (para. 55).






108!45'                              -  030       ToCRS,on08                                                             10S-00o                                  10740
M E X I C o
OCORONI IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROJECT
E'~ Irrigation area
A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~          -      Main canals
M/GUE1 =/tDAZGO0    )      WSecondary canals
DA IW AANO RE,' RVC7R  \S<A   '' t2   \~-                                                                               Drains
Reservoir
EXISTING
KU IVWLK~~~~~~~~~~~ Irrigated areas
-ZM301                                                PLAWi Main ccanalls                                                                                                         30
Reservoirs                            21
DE DOMIINGUFZZ         -                9            /                                                                                   Dm
RESfRVOlR wi i; g 9%{t/~~~~~-                                                                        /r Highway
Secondary roads
F ert   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~_____Unpaved roads
---I-Railways
Gr><t >/ < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rivers
V / X F_ | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Streams
KILOMETERS 0 r           10       5      20      25
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,r de Al                                               J
4 -   -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f ~~~~~~ ~~~~~L- --\  X 'af    0 00 :~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ l                                    1~~~~0'0
SICAE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ST  FPSIL
,: Z                                   W;                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AD REEVOA
DIVERMION  /f      7              4f                    \ (       XEIRi 6 |  7W Xt  DAM                                    of he adfl oftherepsto el hS oiiehed T-eontdadi
25445  5  V          ' O               |  0             1          Af                  LoTunaR  fLnanns $>  athl.t"^ nivt  Livo   sfS,oieOsoy jrdgrireii on he idef Slos rt ay terrory o any edoreeneor o
an  as                                  Ei /ABIIVAL v)(            X      \2                  0  05fProlec4ocot                          6 e c
GuasaveX                          \                                           Orf5Y\ .     \      ';:.e ojs     4 MorcoqCirrw
i4o8'50                                                             DI 0VERS t0rn                                             2i DAM



