Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3475-VN 
CREDIT NUMBER 4708-VN 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(AMENDED AND RESTATED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT) 
 
(Ho Chi Minh City Environmental Sanitation (Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe Basin) Project 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Page  2
2
Dated May 25, 2010 
 
Page  3
CREDIT NUMBER 3475-VN 
CREDIT NUMBER 4708-VN 
 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT 
dated 
May 
25, 
2010, 
entered 
into 
between 
the            
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM (the “Recipient”) and the INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the “Association”). 
WHEREAS for purposes of the Project, the Association had agreed to extend to 
the Recipient a Credit in an amount equivalent to one hundred twenty-seven million five 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 127,500,000) (the “Original Credit”) on 
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement 
dated July 5, 2001 between the Recipient and the Association (the “Development Credit 
Agreement”) as amended; 
WHEREAS the Recipient has requested the Association to provide further 
additional financial assistance in support of the Project by increasing the amount made 
available under the Development Credit Agreement by an amount equivalent to fifty 
eight million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 58,000,000) (the “Additional Credit”); and 
WHEREAS, the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional financial assistance to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the Recipient and the Association hereby agree to amend 
and restate the Development Credit Agreement to read as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The “General Conditions (as defined and modified in the Appendix to this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
2
ARTICLE II 
—
FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a credit in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred eighty five million five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights    
(SDR 185,500,000) (variously, “Credit” and “Financing”) to assist in financing 
the project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”), which 
Credit includes: 
(a) 
an amount equivalent to one hundred twenty-seven million five hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 127,500,000) (the “Original 
Credit”); and 
(b) 
an amount equivalent to fifty eight million Special Drawing Rights   
(SDR 58,000,000) (the “Additional Credit”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Original Credit and the 
Additional Credit in accordance with Section IV of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance of each of the Original Credit and the 
Additional Credit shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
2.04. 
The Service Charge payable by the Recipient on the Withdrawn Credit Balance 
of each of the Original Credit and the Additional Credit shall be equal to three-
fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum. 
2.05. 
The Payment Dates are: 
(a) 
in respect of the Original Credit: January 15 and July 15 in each year; 
and 
(b) 
in respect of the Additional Credit: March 15 and September 15 in each 
year. 
2.06. 
The principal amount of the Original Credit and the principal amount of the 
Additional Credit shall be repaid in accordance with the repayment schedule set 
forth in Section I and Section II, respectively, of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
2.07. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar. 
Page  5
3
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project. To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through Ho Chi Minh City in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.  
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS  
4.01.  
The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, namely that 
the Subsidiary Agreement has been executed in a manner acceptable to the 
Association”. 
 
4.02. 
The Additional Legal Matter consists of the following, namely that the 
Subsidiary Agreement  has been duly authorized or ratified by the Recipient and 
Ho Chi Minh City and is legally binding upon each of them in accordance with 
its terms 
 
4.03. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
 
4.04. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Governor, or a Deputy Governor, of the 
State Bank of Vietnam. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
State Bank of Vietnam 
49 Lý Thái T
Hà N
i
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Page  6
4
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK  
 
412248  
 
(84-4) 3 82 50 612 
Hanoi 
  NHTWVT 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 (1-202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
AGREED at Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By: /s/ Nguyen Van Giau 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By: /s/ Victoria kwakwa 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  7
5
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient to reduce the incidence of flooding 
and increase the collection of wastewater in the Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe (NLTN) Basin of 
Ho Chi Minh City, in an environmentally and financially sustainable manner. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
 
PART A
:
Wastewater
1. 
 Construction of: 
 
(a)   a wastewater interceptor of approximately 8.4 kilometers (km) in length and 2.5 
meters (m) and
 
3.0m
in diameter following the alignment of the NLTN Canal, 
with approximately 36
 
permanent manholes; 
 
(b)  about 59 combined sewer overflow structures to divert wastewater flow into the 
interceptor in dry weather; 
 
(c)  flushing facilities on the upper and middle portions of the NLTN Canal; 
 
(d)  a wastewater pumping facility with a hydraulic capacity of approximately 64,000 
cubic meters per hour near the confluence of the NLTN Canal and the Saigon 
River, including wastewater screening, a control and data acquisition system and 
ancillary structures including an electrical building, transformer pad, odor control 
facility, administrative building, access road and perimeter fencing; and 
 
(e)  an outfall of approximately 0.8 km in length and 3.0 m in diameter to convey 
screened effluent from the wastewater pumping facility to the Saigon River via a 
diffuser. 
 
PART B
:
Drainage
1.  Replacement and extension of approximately 65 km of combined primary and   
secondary sewers in the NLTN Basin. 
 
2. 
Dredging, transportation and disposal of approximately 1,000,000 cubic meters of 
sludge and excavated materials from the NLTN Canal and strengthening of 
approximately 18 km of canal embankments. 
 
3. 
Inspection of approximately 41 km
 
of
brick secondary combined sewers in the 
NLTN Basin and rehabilitation of up to 30 km of inspected sewers. 
 
4.  
Construction of approximately 270 km of tertiary sewers in the NLTN Basin. 
Page  8
6
5.  
Provision of specialized operation and maintenance equipment, including vacuum 
truck, high pressure sewer cleaner, high pressure cleaning van, water tank, portable 
wastewater monitoring kit, accounting and management information system and 
computer equipment. 
 
PART C
:
Institutional Development and Project Management
1. 
Provision of consultants’ services for strengthening the institutional capacity of the 
PMU in connection with: 
 
(a)   preparation of detailed designs for Parts A and B of the Project; and 
 
(b)   supervision and management of Project construction. 
 
2.    Provision of consultants’ services for strengthening the institutional capacity of 
theFlood Control Center in drainage and wastewater services
 
in connection with: 
 
(a) 
 corporate and business planning, and development of a management 
information system and geographic information system strategy; 
 
(b)   accounting and financial management; 
 
(c)   operation and maintenance planning and management; 
 
(d)  quality assurance, development of procedures for awarding management 
contracts on a competitive basis; contract management and procurement 
management; 
 
(e)   human resources development strategy and related training; 
 
(f)  
environmental management and impact assessment;
 
and 
 
(g)   community consultation, communication and dissemination of information.
 
3. 
Carrying out a program of: 
 
(a)   independent monitoring of the environmental impact of the Project and the 
implementation of the Environmental Management Plan;  
 
(b)  independent monitoring of the implementation of resettlement, rehabilitation 
and compensation of Affected persons; and  
 
(c)   independent auditing of Project accounts, accounts of the Flood Control Center 
related to wastewater and drainage facilities under its jurisdiction,
 
and of the 
Wastewater and Drainage Account, all through the provision of consultants’ 
services. 
Page  9
7
PART D
:
Resettlement
Resettlement, rehabilitation and compensation of Affected Persons. 
Page  10
8
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
1. 
The Recipient shall cause Ho Chi Minh City
 
to maintain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project the PMU, with terms of reference and resources 
satisfactory to the Association and competent staff in adequate numbers, 
including a civil engineer, a professional accountant and a procurement and 
project management specialist, each with qualifications, experience and terms 
and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association. 
2. 
The Recipient shall cause Ho Chi Minh City to retain at all times during the 
implementation of the Project, under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, the services of a construction management consultant to assist Ho 
Chi Minh City in the carrying out Parts A and B of the Project. 
 
3. 
In carrying out Part B.4 of the Project, and without limitation to Section 3.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause the districts of Ho Chi Minh City 
within the NLTN Basin to construct the tertiary sewers in a manner and in 
accordance with a schedule satisfactory to the Association, and shall cause Ho 
Chi Minh City to provide to said districts such resources and support as may be 
required for said construction. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall cause Ho Chi Minh City to: 
 
(a)  
adopt and, thereafter, implement a wastewater tariff schedule acceptable 
to the Association; and 
 
(b)  
(i) establish an account with the Ho Chi Minh City treasury for the 
deposit of the wastewater tariff collected; (ii) ensure that such account 
and said tariff are used exclusively for wastewater and drainage 
expenditures in Ho Chi Minh City; (iii) have said account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; and (iv) furnish to the Recipient and the Association, as 
soon as available, the report of such audit by said auditors, and such 
other information concerning such account and the audit thereof as the 
Recipient and the Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
5. 
The Recipient shall cause Ho Chi Minh City:
 
Page  11
9
(a) 
by October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 2002, to furnish to 
the Association for its review and comment, a proposed annual work 
program and budget for Project activities to be implemented in the 
following calendar year; and 
 
(b)   
thereafter, to implement such annual work programs and budget taking 
into account the Association’s comments thereon. 
 
B.  
Subsidiary Agreement 
1.
 
To facilitate the carrying out of the Project, the Recipient shall make part of the 
proceeds of the Credit available to Ho Chi Minh City, under a Subsidiary 
Agreement between the Recipient through its Ministry of Finance, and Ho Chi 
Minh City, acceptable to the Association: 
 
(a)   
as a loan, the amount of proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Category 1. (a) set forth in the table in Section IV of this 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, under terms and conditions acceptable to 
the Association which shall include the following: 
 
(i)  
the principal amount so made available shall be the equivalent in 
Dong (determined as of the date, or respective dates of 
withdrawal from the Credit Account or payment out of the 
designated account as the case may be) of the value of the 
currency or currencies so withdrawn or paid out on account of 
the cost of items required for Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and shall be recovered 
by the Recipient in Dong; 
 
(ii)  
the principal amount so made available shall be recovered in 
semiannual installments over a period not exceeding twenty-five 
(25) years, inclusive of a grace period not exceeding six (6) 
years; and  
 
(iii)  
interest at a rate equal to five percent (5%) per annum on the 
principal amount withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall accrue from the day immediately following the end of the 
grace period referred to in clause (ii) of this sub-paragraph (a), 
and shall be payable in semi-annual payments commencing on 
the date on which the first installment of principal is payable 
under clause (ii) above. 
 
(b)   
as a grant, the amount of proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to 
time to Categories 1. (b), 2, 3 and 4 set forth in the table in Section IV of 
this Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  12
10 
 
2.  
In consideration for making the proceeds of the Credit available to Ho Chi Minh 
City, as set forth in paragraph 1 above, and pursuant to the terms of the 
Subsidiary Agreement, the Recipient shall further cause Ho Chi Minh City: 
 
(a)   
upon completion of works under any component or sub-component 
under Parts A and B of the Project, to assign to FCC the function of and 
responsibility for the management, operation and maintenance of the said 
facility; 
 
(b)   
for purposes of fulfilling its responsibility as set forth in sub-paragraph 
(a) of this paragraph 2, to direct FCC to enter into a service agreement or 
services agreements satisfactory to the Association, with qualified 
service providers acceptable to the Association, for the operation and 
maintenance of all facilities constructed under Parts A and B of the 
Project, except the tertiary level systems under the responsibility of the 
City wards; and 
 
(c)  
 to require FCC to: (i) maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources 
and expenditures of FCC in respect of all wastewater and drainage 
facilities under its responsibility; (ii) have said records and accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; (iii) furnish to Ho Chi Minh City and the Association, as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six (6) months after the 
end of each such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably 
requested; and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit thereof as the 
Association shall from time to time reasonably request. 
 
3.  
The Recipient shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such 
manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit.  Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any of its provisions.  
C. Anti-Corruption 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
D. Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall cause Ho Chi Minh City to: 
Page  13
11 
 
1.  
carry out the Project in accordance with the measures described in the 
Environmental Management Plan and, without any limitation thereto, to take 
timely action to ensure that any adverse environmental impact of the Project is 
effectively mitigated in a manner satisfactory to the Association; 
 
2.   
ensure that Affected Persons shall be compensated, resettled and rehabilitated in 
accordance with the Resettlement Action Plans.  To that end, the Recipient shall 
cause Ho Chi Minh City to, carry out the said Resettlement Action Plans in a 
manner satisfactory to the Association;  
 
3.   
not initiate, nor allow to be initiated,
 
any civil works under Part B of the Project 
unless and until a Drainage Resettlement Action Plan with respect to such works, 
required to be implemented pursuant to paragraph D. 2 above of this Schedule 2 
is approved by the Association; and 
 
4.   
(a) retain at all times during the period of Project implementation, the services of 
an independent agency or firm acceptable to the Association to carry out, under 
terms of reference acceptable to the Association, the monitoring and evaluation 
of the implementation of the Environmental Management Plan and the 
Resettlement Action Plans; (b) cause said independent agency or firm to prepare 
reports, no later than February 15 and August 15 in each year, commencing 
August 15, 2001, on the results of said monitoring and evaluation; and (c) furnish 
copies of said reports to the Association promptly upon receipt thereof. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
 
Conditions and on the basis of the indicators set forth below in paragraph 2 of  
 
this Section II.A.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of a calendar 
 
quarter, and shall be  furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month 
after the end of the period covered by such report.  
 
2. 
The performance indicators referred to above in paragraph 1 above consist 
 
of the following:   
 
(a)  
Outcome Indicators: 
(i)   
Reduction in the number of households affected by two-year-
return-period storm by 96,000 households. 
 
Page  14
12 
 
(ii)   
Increase in the number of households whose wastewater is 
collected and disposed of safely by 240,000 households. 
 
(iii)   
Improvement in the water quality of the NTLN Canal measured 
by the average level of dissolved oxygen in the water to at least 4 
milligram per liter (Mg/1). 
 
(iv)   
Implementation of agreed tariff of 450 Dong per cubic meter by 
Ho Chi Minh City. 
 
(b) Intermediate 
Outcome 
Indicators: 
 
(i) 
8.4 kilometers of wastewater interceptor constructed. 
 
(ii) 
65 kilometers of combined primary and secondary sewers 
replaced and constructed. 
 
(iii) 
18 kilometers of sheet piles installed for canal embankments. 
 
(iv)   
1,029,000 cubic meter (m3) of dredged material disposed of in 
landfill. 
 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association as part of the Project Report not later than 
forty-five (45) days after the end of each calendar quarter, interim unaudited 
financial reports for the Project covering the quarter, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with 
Page  15
13 
 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
3
below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of International Competitive Bidding. 
2
.
Domestic Preference
.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto, providing for domestic 
preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Recipient, and works to be to be carried out by domestic 
contractors.
 
3. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Shopping 
(b)  Direct Contracting 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 
3
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.   
 
2.  
National Consultants.
 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than 
$200,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely of national consultants.
 
Page  16
14 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Least Cost Selection 
(b)  Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c)  Single Source Selection 
(d)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 
2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made applicable to 
this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible Expenditures as 
set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Original Credit and of the Additional Credit to each Category, 
and the percentage of expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in 
each Category: 
 
Page  17
15 
 
Category 
Amount of the Original 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Amount of the Additional 
Credit Allocated 
(expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1) Works 
 
(a) under Part A of the Project
45,950,000 18,700,000 
100% 
(b) under Part B of the Project
69,910,000 34,800,000 
100% 
(2) Goods 
 
680,000 
    900,000 
100%
 
(3) Consultants’ Services  
 
9,280,000 3,600,000 
100% 
 
(4) Incremental Operating 
Costs 
 
150,000  
100% 
(5) Refunding of Project 
Preparation Advance 
1,530,000 
 
Amount payable pursuant 
to Section 2.07 of the 
General Conditions 
(6) Unallocated 
 
 
 
TOTAL 
127,500,000 58,000,000 
 
For the purposes of this table the term “incremental operating costs” means 
expenditures for the carrying out of independent audits under Part C.3(c) of the 
Project. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: (a) with respect to amounts of the Original Credit, on accounts of 
payments made prior to July 5, 2001; or (b) with respect to amounts of the 
Additional Credit, on account of payments made prior to the date of this 
Agreement; except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
SDR 6,440,000 equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but 
on or after January 1, 2010 for Eligible Expenditures
 
2.
 
The Closing Date is December 31, 2011. 
 
Page  18
16 
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
Repayment Schedule 
Section I:  The Original Credit 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Credit 
repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each January 15 and July 15: 
 
Commencing  July 15, 2011 to and including 
January 15, 2021 
1% 
commencing July 15, 2021 to and including 
January 15, 2041 
2% 
Section II:  The Additional Credit 
Date Payment Due 
Principal Amount of the Additional 
Credit repayable 
(expressed as a percentage)* 
On each March 15 and September 15:  
 
commencing September 15, 2020 to and 
including March 15,  2030  
1.25% 
commencing September 15, 2030 to and 
including March 15, 2045  
2.50% 
*
The percentages represent the percentage of the principal amount of the Original Credit 
and of the Additional Credit to be repaid, except as the Association may otherwise 
specify pursuant to Section 3.03(b) of the General Conditions. 
Page  19
17 
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Affected Persons” means persons who, on account of the execution of the 
Project, had or would have their: (i) standard of living adversely affected; or 
(ii) right, title or interest in any house, or interest in or right to use any land 
(including premises, agricultural and grazing land), or right in annual or 
perennial crops and trees or any other fixed or movable asset, acquired or 
possessed, temporarily or permanently; (iii) business, occupation, work or 
place of residence or habitat adversely affected temporarily or permanently; 
and an “Affected Person” means, individually, any of the Affected Persons. 
2. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and 
IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
3. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 
2
to this Agreement. 
4. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment 
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 
2004 and revised in October 2006. 
5. 
“Department of Transport” and the acronym “DOT” mean the Department of 
Transport of Ho Chi Minh City. 
6. 
“Dong” means the currency of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 
7. 
“Drainage Resettlement Action Plans” and “Drainage RAPs” mean the 
resettlement action plans for Part B of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association, prepared in accordance with the policies and planning principles 
set forth in the Resettlement Policy, as such Drainage RAPs may be amended 
from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the Association. 
8. 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the environmental management 
plan setting out measures to mitigate adverse environmental effects of the 
implementation of the Project, dated October 3, 2000, as such plan may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient and the 
Association. 
9. 
“Flood Control Center” and the acronym “FCC” mean the Flood Control 
Center of Ho Chi Minh City, established and operating pursuant to Decision 
1121/QD-UBND, dated March 14, 2008 of the People’s Committee of Ho 
Chi Minh City, and responsible for, inter alia, the management and operation 
Page  20
18 
 
of the drainage and wastewater infrastructure system in all basins within the 
territory of Ho Chi Minh City, including the Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe Basin, and 
any successor thereto. 
10. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006), with the modifications set forth in Section II of 
this Appendix. 
11. 
“Ho Chi Minh City” means the Recipient’s Ho Chi Minh City, under the 
direct jurisdiction of the central government of the Socialist Republic of 
Vietnam, and any successor thereto. 
12. 
“Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe Basin” and “NLTN Basin” mean the approximately 33 
square kilometer basin covering approximately half of the Ho Chi Minh City 
center and comprised of the Phu Nhuan District and portions of Districts 1, 3, 
10, Tan Binh, Go Vap and Binh Thanh of Ho Chi Minh City. 
13. 
“Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe Canal” and “NLTN Canal” mean the canal that serves 
as the main drain for untreated wastewater and storm water runoff in the 
NLTN Basin. 
14. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October, 2006. 
15. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated January 20, 2010  and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same 
shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said 
paragraphs. 
16. 
“Project Management Unit” and the acronym "PMU" mean the project 
management unit established by the Ho Chi Minh City People’s Committee 
for the management of the implementation of the Project, and any successor 
thereto. 
17. 
“Resettlement Action Plans” and the acronym “RAPs” mean, collectively, 
the Wastewater RAP and the Drainage RAPs. 
18. 
“Resettlement Policy” means the Resettlement Action Plan Policy, dated 
December 2000, prepared by the Department of Transport and Public Works 
(TUPWS) of Ho Chi Minh City at the time, approved by the Ho Chi Minh 
City People’s Committee Memorandum No. 4652/UB-DT, setting forth the 
policies, planning principles and institutional arrangements designed to 
improve the living standards and productive capacity of persons affected by 
Page  21
19 
 
the Project, as said Resettlement Policy may be amended from time to time 
with the agreement of the Association. 
19. 
“Subsidiary Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into between the 
Recipient and Ho Chi Minh City and referred to in paragraph 1 of Section    
I.B of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
20. 
“Wastewater and Drainage Account” means the account established pursuant 
to paragraph 4(b)(i) of Section I.A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
21. 
“Wastewater Resettlement Action Plan” and “Wastewater RAP” mean the 
resettlement action plan for Part A of the Project, satisfactory to the 
Association, dated December 2000, prepared by the Department of Transport 
and Public Works (TUPWS) of Ho Chi Minh City at the time, approved by 
the Ho Chi Minh City People’s Committee Memorandum No. 4652/UB-DT, 
for carrying out the compensation, resettlement and rehabilitation of Affected 
Persons under Part A of the Project, as such Wastewater Resettlement Action 
Plan may be amended from time to time by agreement between the Recipient 
and the Association. 
Section II.   
Modifications to the General Conditions 
The modifications to the General Conditions for Credits and Grants of the Association, 
dated July 1, 2005 (as amended through October 15, 2006) are as follows:   
1. 
Section 2.07 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.07. 
Refinancing Preparation Advance 
 
If the Financing Agreement provides for the repayment out of the 
proceeds of
 
the Financing of an advance made by the Association or the Bank 
(“Preparation Advance”), the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Financing Account on or after the Effective Date the amount 
required to repay the withdrawn and outstanding balance of the advance as at the 
date of such withdrawal from the Financing Account and to pay all accrued and 
unpaid charges, if any, on the advance as at such date. The Association shall pay 
the amount so withdrawn to itself or the Bank, as the case may be, and shall 
cancel the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the advance.” 
 
2. 
Paragraph (i) of Section 6.02 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 6.02. 
Suspension by the Association 
 
... (l) 
Ineligibility
.
The Association or the Bank has declared the Project 
Implementing Entity ineligible to receive proceeds of any financing made by the 
Page  22
20 
 
Association or the Bank or otherwise to participate in the preparation or 
implementation of any project financed in whole or in part by the Association or 
the Bank, as a result of a determination by the Association or the Bank that the 
Project Implementing Entity has engaged in fraudulent, corrupt, coercive or 
collusive practices in connection with the use of the proceeds of any financing 
made by the Association or the Bank.” 
 
3. 
The following term and its definition set forth in the Appendix is modified as 
follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Project Preparation Advance” is modified to read “Preparation 
Advance” and its definition is modified to read as follows:  
“Preparation Advance” means the advance referred to in the Financing Agreement 
and repayable in accordance with Section 2.07.”  
 
