                                   Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                     Report No: ICR2375



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                       (IDA-34750 IDA-47080)



       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 127.50 MILLION AND SDR 58 MILLION
          (US$ 166.34 MILLION AND US$ 90 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       TO THE

                     SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM

                                       FOR A

             HO CHI MINH CITY ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION
                 (NHIEU LOC-THI NGHE BASIN) PROJECT



                               December 20, 2012




Vietnam Sustainable Development Unit
Sustainable Development Network
East Asia and the Pacific Region
                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012

            Currency Unit = Vietnam Dong (VND)
                    1.00 = US$ 0.000047
                     US$ 1.00 = 20,880

                       FISCAL YEAR
                   January 1 – December 31

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


ADB       Asian Development Bank
APL       Adaptable Programmatic Loan
BOQ       Bill of Quantities
CBA       Cost Benefit Analysis
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CCTV      Closed Circuit Television
CMC       Construction Management Consultants
CSO       Combined Sewer Overflow
DCA       Development Credit Agreement
DO        Dissolved Oxygen
DOF       Department of Finance
DWD       Drainage and Wastewater Division
EMP       Environmental Management Framework
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FDI       Foreign Direct Investment
GIS       Geographic Information System
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GSO       General Statistics Office
HCMC      Ho Chi Minh City
HCMC PC   Ho Chi Minh City People’s Committee
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IDA       International Development Association
JICA      Japanese International Cooperation Agency
KPI       Key Performance Indicators
MIS       Management Information Systems
MOF       Ministry of Finance
NLTN      Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe
NPV       Net Present Value
O&M       Operation and Maintenance
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development
PMU      Project Management Unit
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
QA/QC    Quality Assurance / Quality Control
QAE      Quality at Entry
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RAP      Resettlement Action Plan
RF       Results Framework
SAWACO   Saigon Water Company
SCADA    Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition
SCFC     Steering Center for Flood Control
SOE      State Owned Enterprise
TBM      Tunnel Boring Machine
UDC      Urban Drainage Company
UTMD     Urban Transport Management Department
WWTP     Waste Water Treatment Plant




                Vice President: Pamela Cox
              Country Director: Victoria Kwawa
               Sector Manager: Jennifer Sara
          Project Team Leader: Dean Cira
             ICR Team Leader: Victor Vazquez Alvarez
                                            VIETNAM
                             Ho Chi Minh City Environmental Sanitation
                                  (Nhieu Loc – Thi Nghe) Project



                                                     CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 13
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 19
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 20
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 26
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 27
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 28
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 33
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 44
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 45
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 46
  Annex 8. Supporting Documents (Institutional Analysis and Environmental Data) .... 51
  Annex 9. Photos ............................................................................................................ 58
            A. Basic Information (some fields are entered by the system)
Country:              Vietnam                   Project name: Ho Chi Minh City Environmental Sanitation
                                                (Nhieu Loc – Thi Nghe Basin) Project

Project ID:        P052037                      L/C/TF Number(s): IDA-34750 and IDA-47080

ICR Date:             12/31/2012                ICR Type: Core

Lending Instrument: Specific Investment         Borrower: Vietnam
Loan

Original total commitment: $283 million         Disbursed amount: $248 million

Environmental category: Full Assessment         [Focal Area—for GEF only]:

Implementing Agencies: The Project Management Unit, Department of Transportation, Ho Chi Minh City

Co-financiers and Other External Partners: PHRD Grants (2)


            B. Key Dates (all fields are entered by the system)
      Process                   Date            Process            Original Date      Revised/Actual
                                                                                         Date(s)
Concept review:         09/28/1999        Effectiveness:         02/03/2002        02/03/2002
Appraisal:              10/16/2000        Restructuring(s):                        12/19/2007
                                                                                   2007,6/24/2008,
                                                                                   4/14/2009,
                                                                                   9/17/2009,4/6/2010,
                                                                                   12/29/2011, 4/19/2012
Approval:               03/20/2011        Mid-term Review:                         09/18/2006
                                          Closing:               12/31/2007        06/30/2012


       C. Ratings Summary
 C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
 Outcome:                                             MS
 Risk to Development Outcome                          Moderate
 [or Global Environment Outcome]:
 Bank Performance:                                    MS
 Borrower Performance:                                MS

  C. 2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
               Bank                       Ratings                       Borrower                       Ratings
  Quality at Entry:                  MS                       Government:                       MU
  Quality of Supervision:            MS                       Implementation                    MS
                                                              Agency/Agencies:
  Overall Bank Performance:          MS                       Overall Borrower Performance:     MS
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
(all fields are entered by the system)
       Implementation Performance                 Indicators   QAG Assessments (if any)         Rating

   Potential Prob. Project at any time(Yes/No):       Yes            Quality at Entry (QEA):       MS
          Problem Project at any time(Yes/No):        Yes       Quality of Supervision (QSA):      MS
DO[GEO] rating before Closing/Inactive status:         S

         D. Sector and Theme Codes
         (the original column is entered by the system—the same as in SAP/AUS)

                                                                        Original            Actual
         Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
         1. Wastewater Collection and Transportation                      60%                 22%
         2. Sanitation                                                    33%                 69%
         3. Central government administration                              7%                  9%
                                                                    Original Priority   Actual Priority
         Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
         1. Urban services and housing for the poor                       67%                   31%
         2. Pollution management and environmental health                 33%                   69%



         E. Bank Staff (some fields are entered by the system)
        Positions                          At ICR                             At Approval
Vice President:                      Pamela Cox                           Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:                    Victoria Kwakwa                      Andrew D. Steer
Sector Manager:                      Jennifer Sara                        Keshav Varma
Project Team Leader:                 Dean A. Cira                         Alan Coulthart
ICR Team Leader:                     Victor Vazquez Alvarez
ICR Primary Author:                  Victor Vazquez Alvarez,
                                     Linh X. Le
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objective

Make sustainable improvements to the public health and well-being of around 1.2 million
residents of Ho Chi Minh City, particularly the poor, and promote increased economic
development in the commercial center of the city. This will be achieved by reducing
wastewater pollution and the occurrence of flooding and by developing a more efficient
institution to manage drainage and wastewater services.


Revised Project Development Objective

To reduce the incidence of flooding and increase the collection of wastewater in the
Nhieu Loc-Thi Nghe (NLTN) Basin in HCMC, in an environmentally and financially
sustainable manner.


(a) PDO [GEO] Indicator(s) ─ from Project Appraisal Document (Indicators entered
from the ISR)
Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)

                         Baseline Value    Original Target     Formally Revised      Actual Values
                                                Values           Target Values         Achieved
                                            (from approval                         at Completion or
                                              documents)                             Target Years
 PDO Indicator 1:       Reduction in the number of households affected by two year return period
                        storm
              Value
    (quantitative or            0                   N/A                 96,000                88,000
       Qualitative)
     Date achieved      01-Jan-2007                                31-Dec-2009          30-Jun-2012
        Comments        Indicator introduced at restructuring. PAD mentions reduction in flooding in 10
            (incl. %    locations of the NLTN basin without further specification. 92% of target achieved
      achievement)
 PDO Indicator 2:       Increase in the number of households whose wastewater is collected and
                        disposed of safely
              Value
    (quantitative or            0                   N/A                 240,000               265,800
       Qualitative)
     Date achieved      01-Jan-2007                                  31-Dec-2009           30-Jun-2012
        Comments        Indicator introduced at restructuring. It includes the connection of the 30%
            (incl. %    households in the basin that were not connected in year 2000, plus the safe
      achievement)      disposal of wastewater from all households in the basin. 100% achieved
 PDO Indicator 3:       Improvement in the water quality of the NLTN Canal measured by the
                        average level of dissolved oxygen (DO)
               Value
     (quantitative or        0.3 - 1                N/A                    4            1.6
        Qualitative)
      Date achieved     01-Jan-2007                               31-Dec-2009           November-2012
      Comments       Indicator introduced at restructuring. Latest measurement on November, 2012
        (incl. %     when there were some sewers discharging wastewater. Target is expected to be
   achievement)      achieved in next 6-9 months after natural canal flushing. 40% achieved
PDO Indicator 4:     Implementation of the agreed tariff schedule by the People's Committee of Ho
                     Chi Minh City
            Value
  (quantitative or     250 VND/m3               N/A              450 VND/m3            480 VND/m3
     Qualitative)
   Date achieved     01-Jan-2007                               31-Dec-2009           30-Jun-2012
      Comments       Introduced at restructuring. 450 was the target for 2009. Target not updated after
          (incl. %   2009. Considering there was no tariff in place before the project, this indicator
    achievement)     shows important progress. Partially achieved
(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s) - from Project Appraisal Document
Baseline Values from Project Outcome Indicators/Date of Value (from approval documents)
                       Baseline Value       Original Target       Formally Revised      Actual Values
                                                 Values             Target Values         Achieved
                                             (from approval                           at Completion or
                                               documents)                               Target Years
 IO Indicator 1:     KM of wastewater interceptor constructed
              Value
    (quantitative or          0                    8.4                    8.4         9.1
       Qualitative)
     Date achieved 01-Jan-2001             01-Jan-2001            31-Dec-2009         30-Jun-2012
        Comments Indicator introduced at restructuring. The original target was not included in the RF
            (incl. % of the PAD but in Annex 2. 108% of target achieved
      achievement)
 IO Indicator 2:     KM of combined primary and secondary sewers replaced and constructed.
              Value
    (quantitative or          0                     72                   59.5                51.5
       Qualitative)
     Date achieved 01-Jan-2001             01-Jan-2001            31-Dec-2009         30-Jun-2012
        Comments Indicator introduced at restructuring. Original target of 72 km not included in the
            (incl. % RF of the PAD but in Annex 2. 8 km reduction from target as some of the existing
      achievement) pipes were found to be in good conditions. 100% achieved
   IO Indicator 3: KM of sheet piles installed for canal embankments
              Value
    (quantitative or          0                     18                    18                 16.8
       Qualitative)
     Date achieved 01-Jan-2001             01-Jan-2001            31-Dec-2009         30-Jun-2012
        Comments Indicator introduced at restructuring. Original target not included in the RF of the
            (incl. % PAD but in Annex 2. Difference of 1.2 km was due to parts of the canal where it
      achievement) was not possible to install the sheet piles. 100% achieved
   IO Indicator 4: Cubic Meters of sludge and excavated material dredged.
              Value
    (quantitative or          0                 1,100,000             1,029,000           1,050,000
       Qualitative)
     Date achieved 01-Jan-2001             01-Jan-2001            31-Dec-2009         30-Jun-2012
        Comments Indicator introduced at restructuring. The original target of 1,100,00 cubic meters
            (incl. % was not included in the RF of the PAD but in Annex 2. 102% achieved
      achievement)
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs (all fields are entered by the system)

                                                                                           Actual
         Date ISR
 No                                DO                               IP                 Disbursements
         Archived
                                                                                           (USD)
  1     05/02/2001            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  2     12/21/2001            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     0.00
  3     05/15/2002            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     1.69
  4     12/10/2002            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     3.69
  5     06/04/2003            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                     4.89
  6     12/08/2003            Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                    7.90
  7     06/03/2004            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    14.29
  8     12/21/2004            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                    18.83
  9     04/20/2005            Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory             20.15
 10     11/30/2005            Satisfactory                 Unsatisfactory                   24.73
 11     06/09/2006        Moderately Satisfactory          Unsatisfactory                   28.55
 12     10/13/2006        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             30.68
 13     05/18/2007           Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                   42.65
 14     12/19/2007        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             53.45
 15     06/18/2008        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory             65.70
 16     02/19/2009        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           104.65
 17     01/10/2010        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           149.62
 18     02/21/2011            Satisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory           179.50
 19     12/10/2011            Satisfactory                  Satisfactory                  201.87
 20     07/08/2012        Moderately Satisfactory       Moderately Satisfactory           227.38

H. Restructuring (if any)
 Restructure    Board         ISR Ratings at           Amount            Reason for Restructuring &
   Date(s)     Approved       Restructuring         Disbursed at            Key Changes Made
                 PDO                                Restructuring
                Change        DO          IP          (US$ mil)


 12/19/2007         No        MS         MS                53.45         Extended closing date by 6
                                                                         months to 06/30/2008

 06/24/2008         No        MS         MS                65.70         Extended closing date by 18
                                                                         months to 12/31/2009

 04/14/2009      Yes          MS         MS               113.42         Modify PDOs, associated
                                                                         outcomes and monitoring
                                                                         indicators to better measure
                                                                         results and reflect institutional
                                                                         changes in the sector

 09/17/2009         No        MS         MS               138.35         Extend closing date by 6 months
                                                                         to 06/30/2010 to allow task team
                                                                         process the AF operation

 04/06/2010         No        MS         MS               159.53         Approve Additional Financing of
                                                                         58M XDR and extend closing
                                                                         date of both credits to December
                                                                         31, 2011
 12/29/2011        No         S          S               207.90       Extend AF closing date by 6
                                                                      months to 6/30/2012

 04/19/2012        No         S          S               211.63       Reallocate between disbursements
                                                                      categories in Original Credit, and
                                                                      change the retroactive financing
                                                                      date from January 1, 2010 to May
                                                                      25, 2009 for the AF Credit.



  If PDO[GEO] and/or Key Outcome Targets were formally revised (approved by the original approving
                                  body) enter ratings below:

                                                                   Outcome Ratings

 Against Original PDO[GEO]/Targets                  MU (39% weight)

 Against Formally Revised PDO[GEO]/Targets          MS (61% weight)

 Overall (weighted) rating                          MS




I. Disbursement Profile (system generated graph)
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

The main issues in the urban sanitation sector at the national level by the time of project
appraisal were: (a) insufficient capital investment to replace decaying infrastructure and
to keep pace with rapid urban growth; (b) the frequent flooding that occurs in cities
because of undersized drains and inadequate routine maintenance, (c) severe pollution of
water courses, particularly in densely populated areas of cities, because there was no
provision for wastewater separation and treatment; and (d) weak utility agencies. Specific
issues relating to implementation at the municipal government level were: (a) fiscal
decentralization not matching the pace of executive decentralization; and (b) limited
institutional capacity.

Government's sector strategy aimed to: (a) put sector financing on a new footing by
gradually eliminating the need for Government subsidies for operation and maintenance,
through the introduction of wastewater charges; (b) reduce flooding by allocating more
resources to increase the capacity, and expand the coverage of drainage; (c) gradually
introduce wastewater treatment; and (d) strengthen institutional capacity in the sector.
The largest cities, where the problems are most acute, were to be given highest priority.

Government's environmental policy recognized the principle that the polluter should pay
and was committed to moving in that direction. Implementation responsibilities for sector
projects have been devolved from the national to the provincial/city level. HCMC, with
assistance from the Japanese Government, prepared an Urban Drainage and Sewerage
Master Plan in 1999 based on this strategy.

Rationale for Bank involvement

To promote urban environmental improvements it had been Central Government's
practice to allocate funds for environmental investments on a grant basis. There were,
however, insufficient resources to meet the enormous demand throughout the country.
Financial projections made at the time of project preparations showed that the city had
the capacity to borrow for the wastewater component and meet the counterpart costs, but
not to meet the cost of borrowing for the drainage component 1. Ninety percent of the cost
of the drainage works financed by IDA was to be on-granted by central Government.
Moreover, the project was also intended to make an important contribution to the
emerging decentralization agenda, since most of the planning and approval processes
would be done at the local level.


1
 In view of HCMC’s robust economy over the previous decade, the city agreed to borrow 90% ($59.8
million) of the cost of the wastewater component (36% of the total investment) and to provide $33.6
million from general city revenues.




                                                   1
The project aimed to address the backlog of deferred investment by expanding the
capacity and coverage of drains in the basin and by increasing the hydraulic capacity of
the Nhieu Loc Thi Nghe (NLTN) canal. These investments were key components of the
Urban Drainage Strategic Plan approved by Ministry of Construction (MOC) in 1999,
whose objectives focused on elimination of flooding, the improvement of wastewater
collection and strengthening the public institutions responsible for urban drainage.

The project was aligned with the CAS goal of raising productivity through infrastructure
development by reducing the cost of doing business and by enabling the city to create a
more favorable impression on potential investors through environmental improvement.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

PDO: To make sustainable improvements to the public health and well-being of around
1.2 million residents of Ho Chi Minh City, particularly the poor, and promote increased
economic development in the commercial center of the city. This will be achieved by
reducing wastewater pollution and the occurrence of flooding and by developing a more
efficient institution to manage drainage and wastewater services.

Key Indicators: PAD, page 2, included: (a) Reduced incidence, particularly amongst the
urban poor, of water-related and vector-borne diseases, measured by trends in annual
cases treated and deaths arising from: diarrhea, dysentery, cholera, and typhoid in the
project area; (b) Improved environmental conditions in the NLTN basin and greater
business activity, as evidenced by increased business investment and higher commercial
and residential property values; (c) Institutional improvements will be measured by: (i)
the reduction in flooding at areas where inundation regularly occurs at present, (ii) the
water quality of the NLTN canal, (iii) and the percentage of operation, maintenance and
depreciation costs that are met from wastewater revenue.

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators, and reasons/justification

The PDO and Key Indicators were revised during project restructuring in 2009. The new
PDO was: to reduce the incidence of flooding and increase the collection of wastewater
in the NLTN basin in HCMC, in an environmentally and financially sustainable manner.

The new performance indicators included:

a) Reduction in the number of household affected by two year return period storm.
b) Increase in the number of households whose wastewater is collected and disposed of
safely.
c) Improvement in the water quality of NLTN canal.
d) Implementation of agreed tariff schedule by the Ho Chi Minh People’s Committee.




                                           2
1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The target population was approximately 1.2 million people living in the NLTN basin 2. A
significant proportion fell into the low-income category as indicated by the fact that only
73% had piped water connections and only 70% had sanitation facilities connected to the
existing sewerage network. The Urban Drainage Company (UDC) and the Steering
Center for Flood Control (SCFC) stood to benefit from the project’s specific institutional
strengthening activities to support ongoing reforms in the wastewater sector. By reducing
flooding and improving water quality in the canal, the project was expected to bring
general benefits to the city's economy as a whole, and private benefits to individual
households. In particular it was projected to improve the health of women and children,
who had the greatest exposure to unsanitary conditions.

1.5 Original Components ($ appraised, $ actual)

Component 1 – Wastewater (US$ 60.2 million, US$ 70.7 million). This component
included an interceptor sewer of 8.4 km long collecting wastewater from the combined
sewers. The interceptor runs parallel to, and largely under, the NTLN Canal and was
designed to divert excess runoff into it through 56 Combined Storm Overflow chambers
(CSOs). This component also financed a wastewater pumping station into which the
interceptor sewer discharges by gravity. The pumping station was designed to pump up to
64,000 m3/hr through a 0.8 km outfall built as a 3 meter diameter tunnel under the Saigon
River discharging through a diffuser designed to maximize mixing and dilution in the
East bank of the river 3.

Component 2 – Drainage (US$ 96.9 million, US$ 216.3 million): This component
entailed: (i) replacement and extension of 72 km of combined primary and secondary
sewers, to reduce flooding and overflows of combined storm water and wastewater onto
the streets 4; (ii) dredging, transportation and disposal of approximately 1,100,000 m3 of
sludge and excavated material to increase the hydraulic capacity of the NLTN canal, and
related strengthening of 18 km of canal embankments; (iii) field investigation of some 54
km of pre-1954 brick secondary combined sewers using Closed Circuit Television
(CCTV) techniques and design and rehabilitation of up to 30 km, where necessary; (iv)
extension of around 270 km of tertiary sewers to connect the 30% of the houses in the
basin, mainly occupied by low-income families and that were not connected to the
system. Provision was also made to procure some specialized maintenance equipment
and computer hardware and software (total estimated cost US$1 million) for UDC.


2
  This corresponds to the 240,000 households whose wastewater is collected and safely disposed. See
definition of this indicator for more detail.
3
  The entire interceptor-pumping station system was also designed to function as an innovative canal
flushing mechanism to enable stagnant water to be drawn off from the upper sections of the canal into the
interceptor to maintain an optimal water quality in the canal during the dry season, when there is
insufficient natural flushing.
4
  The original design included works in difficult areas where drainage would require pumping. Therefore
these areas were finally excluded from the project and the target of 59.5 km was adopted at restructuring.



                                                    3
Component 3 - Technical Assistance (US$ 14.4 million, U$ 21.7 million). This
component included: (a) detailed design of the wastewater component; (b) construction
management; and (c) institutional strengthening. The institutional strengthening was
designed to support UDC as service provider in the process of corporatization and overall
sector restructuring. In addition to assisting in corporate planning, this component aimed
to develop capacity to procure and supervise service contracts covering operation and
maintenance activities.

1.6 Revised Components: n/a

1.7 Other significant changes

The project was restructured and the DCA amended several times during implementation:

The project underwent one level I and several level II restructurings. In December 2007
an extension was agreed in a two-step process: the Bank agreed to a two year extension
conditioned to the achievement of agreed targets in an initial six months extension period.
These targets were satisfied and the two year extension period was conceded.

Further, the project underwent a level I restructuring in March 2009 to modify the Project
Development Objectives, associated outcomes and corresponding monitoring indicators.
This restructuring also reflected the new institutional changes occurred in the drainage
and wastewater sector in HCMC, where asset ownership and management was
transferred to the newly established Steering Center for Flood Control (SCFC), so the
Urban Drainage Company (UDC) became responsible for operation (see Annex 8 for
more details).

In October 2009, the original credit closing date was further extended to June 30, 2010.
In April 2010 an Additional Credit of SDR 58 million was approved together with a new
closing date in December 31, 2011 for both Credits. The closing date for the Additional
Credit was subsequently extended to June 30, 2012 through a new restructuring approved
on December 29, 2011. The total commitment was US$ 283 million while the disbursed
amount is US$ 248 million. Section 2.2 provides more details on the undisbursed amount
of US$ 35 million.

Finally, the project was restructured for last time in April 2012 to: (a) reallocate among
disbursement categories of the proceeds in the Original Credit, and (b) change the
retroactive financing date from January 1, 2010 to May 25, 2009 for the Additional
Credit.




                                            4
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Background analysis: Project preparation started in 1998. A PMU had been already
established back in 1994 and was in charge of implementing urban upgrading activities in
the canal banks. From 1993 to 2000 the city had already spent US$ 120 million for an
urban development program in the NLTN basin. The Bank put in place a highly and
relevantly qualified team capable of acting as informed counterparts to the construction
supervision consultants and the PMU. The client spent sufficient money on preparation
comprising 2 PHRD grants and a PPF.

A detailed assessment of the existing wastewater infrastructure, the status of the canal,
the number of beneficiaries and the institutional arrangements in place for wastewater
and drainage management in the city was carried out during project preparation.
Financial assessments included an analysis on cost recovery mechanisms, surveys on
willingness to pay, amounts to be charged and the phasing of full cost recovery based on
a recently passed decree to recover full costs in the wastewater and drainage sector from
users by 2006. Feasibility studies were assessed by the Bank team and contrasted through
several field visits. The technical analysis also included site selection for works and the
use of appropriate construction techniques.

Lessons learnt regarding Bank’s sector experience included the acknowledgement of the
institutional reforms necessary to pursue the sustainability of the interventions. The
intention was therefore to avoid focusing exclusively on infrastructure development but
to also support sector management at the lowest appropriate level to ensure
responsiveness to consumers and on developing legal, regulatory and financial
frameworks to provide adequate incentives for service providers to meet demand in an
efficient and accountable manner.

The technological complexity of the intervention was also well understood by the time of
project preparation, with some construction techniques such pipe-jacking being used for
the first time in Vietnam.

Government’s Commitment and Stakeholder participation: Extensive dialogue was
held during the preparation stage with all relevant ministries and city departments. Public
consultation was conducted during project preparation, including project beneficiaries
and relevant stakeholders. Around 1000 beneficiary households in the project area were
surveyed to determine socio economic characteristic, their priorities amongst a range of
infrastructure improvements and corresponding willingness to pay for those. Women’s
Union groups assisted with consultations with the Project Affected Families.

Assessment of Risks: The most substantial risk identified was related to the slow
implementation due to procurement processing delays. Technical Assistance on
procurement to all levels in Government was planned as the main mitigation measure,
although this was measure was not implemented with the intensity it deserved. The



                                            5
relevance of this issue influenced the overall project risk which was rated as high.
Technical problems during construction of the interceptor and outfall and the occurrence
of indiscriminate dumping of garbage affecting water quality and flooding were also
identified as a risks rated as low. The mitigation measure for the solid waste was the
reliance on an ADB project on solid waste management to be implemented in parallel.
Solid waste dumping is now one of the main problems during the operational stage (see
section 4). In retrospect, an additional risk that should have been included related to the
need for UDC to recover O&M costs.

Assessment of project design: Project design responded to a clear need to mitigate
flooding and improve the sanitary conditions in the NLTN basin through the development
of wastewater collection and drainage infrastructure and institutional strengthening of the
sector. A Project Information Center was set up and built in the project area to provide
residents with information on all aspects of the project and facilitate the provision of
inputs from users to designs and measures to mitigate the impact of construction.

Overall, the project was prepared to respond to these sector challenges, its design
followed an approved master plan and the emerging devolution priorities, and project
preparation included extensive stakeholder consultations. In addition, the project had
carried out quite a few advanced actions related to having bidding documents for a
significant number of contracts prepared and ready by effectiveness. However, some
shortcomings should be mentioned:

PDO indicators and the Results Framework defined at appraisal could have been more
precisely defined to ensure achievability and attribution, and as such, they had to be
restructured later during implementation (see Section 2.3).

Despite intensive efforts to determine a realistic schedule for the different review and
approval processes and project implementation, the final agreed schedule proved to be
overly ambitious for a complex project of this kind and the actual time needed was much
longer than expected. The low capacity of the PMU also delayed project effectiveness.

Some elements of the wastewater component, mainly the interceptor and the pumping
station are now considered to be over-dimensioned as the design used daily consumption
rates of 400 liters per capita 2030, a number that seems unrealistically high 5, both in
terms of population projections as well as per capita consumption rates. A more optimal
design may have been to use a lower wastewater per capita and population projection
figure.

The project included an activity on improving and expanding the tertiary network and
therefore improving household connectivity, to be financed by the local districts as part


5
  Data from SAWACO in 2009 showed 175 lpc. The Bank is preparing a second phase of the project were
a WWTP to treat wastewater from the NLTN basin is being prepared. The FS are considering 200 lpc in the
year 2045.



                                                  6
of their regular responsibilities. This activity was essential for the successful collection of
wastewater in the basin and the fact that it was not financed and controlled by the Bank
or the City, but by district authorities, created a risk of weak control over its monitoring
and achievement. By the end of the project, it was difficult to measure the number of
households that had been connected during the project implementation period, and as
such an indicator on the progress made to expand the tertiary network could have helped
to monitor this activity more closely.

An additional preparation shortcoming was the methodology used for the original project
economic analysis. Although the work included a least cost analysis and willingness to
pay survey, the final result presented at that time has made it difficult to assess the
economic efficiency of the project at completion (see Section 3.3 for more details).

The PAD and original DCA included the need for UDC to recover Operations and
Maintenance costs, plus a provision for depreciation, interest and taxes by the time of
project completion, which seemed too ambitious for a city that had not yet established a
wastewater tariff at the time of project preparation and knowing how difficult it is to
create a culture of payment for sanitation services. This was later addressed in the
restructuring (section 2.3).

Finally, given the high risk of the project identified at appraisal, the low familiarity with
large Bank projects by the local government and the low capacity of implementing units,
the Bank could have encouraged the borrower to increase the amount of funds allocated
for institutional strengthening.

2.2 Implementation

This was technically a very large and complex project that entailed considerable
engineering challenges and, as usual for these types of disruptive infrastructure works
undertaken in congested consolidated urban areas, underwent significant implementation
difficulties. The project was restructured seven times, including mostly extensions and
AF, and a level I restructuring to revise the PDO and KPIs as indicated in section 1.7. It
was finally completed with a total accumulated delay of 4.5 years and an increase in cost
of US$ 116 million. The extra cost, mostly due to delays and severe inflation in 2008,
was covered with an additional credit and Government funds. The main causes of delay
are discussed below:

It took longer than expected to meet the conditions for effectiveness, mostly due to time
needed to review the Sub-loan Agreement between UDC and MOF, the insufficient
capacity of the PMU and the late appointment of consultants to monitor the RAP. Also
the project Feasibility Study had to be reapproved by the Prime Minister because the
project cost breakdown changed following negotiations when better costs emerged
following the preparation of detailed designs.

Once effective, the project started at a very slow pace. One cause was the unfamiliarity
with the ICB procurement processes, which were the largest associated with any project



                                              7
in Vietnam up to that date, and the extra time needed in the multiple review layers by the
Vietnamese Government, both at the city and ministerial level. Despite the move to
decentralization, the scale of the project led city officials to seek ministerial level reviews
and approvals. Design reports, bidding documents, cost estimates, procurement plans,
evaluation reports and contract awards had to be reviewed by various city departments,
the People’s Committee and the Ministry of Construction.

Additionally, all procurement decisions, including relatively minor revisions to cost
estimates, had to be approved by the Prime Minister’s office. Decree 209-2004 ND/CP
on Quality Management of Construction Works on QA/QC for construction works
requiring additional information 6 from the Contractor further contributed to extended
approval times.

A second main cause of delay relates to the high construction risk of the project due to
the complexity of some works and the bad soil conditions of HCMC, particularly during
the rainy season. This led to the occurrence of a series of unexpected incidents. The poor
performance of key contractors also exacerbated some of these challenges:

    •   Numerous problems occurred in the construction of the interceptor and the
        upgrading of the canal. The implementation period for these two contracts was 5
        and 3 years longer than originally planned respectively. Inadequate staffing, lack
        of attention to health and safety conditions in the working place and use of
        inappropriate construction techniques and construction equipment are some of the
        main problems related to these packages.

    •   Although considered in the project design, the need to relocate a 2 meter diameter
        water main turned to be a very delicate operation, given the exact location of the
        pipe and the fact that the pipe was the only source of water for about 4 million
        people. Due to the refusal of the main contractor to carry out this operation, the
        Saigon Water Corporation (SAWACO) was instructed by HCMC PC to take
        responsibility for implementing this activity. This caused delays and required a
        Bank procurement policy waiver for establishing a single source selection process.

    •   Other unexpected incidents included temporal loss of Tunneling Boring Machines
        in three occasions, including one in the bed of the Saigon River where a cable
        snarled up the tunneling machine for an extended period of time.

The complexity of the construction in the city was also related to the need to operate in
reduced spaces within dense urban areas of narrow roads and busy traffic. The project
location is in the densest and highly populated HCMC city center and this obliged
construction crews to operate mostly only at night, the only time when trucks were



6
 Requirement for the completion of the measurement acceptance documentation and preparation of
variation documents based on agreed rates, and the attendant time needed.




                                                  8
allowed to come into the city. Lack of coordination among the different city departments
to issue working permits to relocate urban utilities underground, together with the lack of
information on the location of urban infrastructure from these utilities and the time taken
to issue traffic control permits were also important causes of delay.

Other unexpected contractual problems occurred during implementation:

   •   During project implementation the contractor responsible for upgrading the canal
       (Package 10) was included in the Bank’s debarment list following sanctions
       related to a project in the Philippines. The Bank determined that no additional
       financing could be used to cover additional costs of this package and therefore the
       decision was made to terminate that contract and rebid the remaining works under
       that contract. It took about one year to complete that process.

   •   Packages 11, 12 and 13 for the upgrade and extension of primary and secondary
       sewers had to be restructured and the bidding process repeated three times due to
       the insufficient number of bids and price offers above cost estimates. This alone
       caused two years of delay (see section 2.4 for more details).

Implementation progress was rated as unsatisfactory before the Mid-Term Review due to
the poor progress achieved in the construction of the wastewater component and the
delay of more than 3 years in the start of the main contracts for the drainage component.
In 2007, the Bank communicated to the Borrower that it would was ready to bring the
project to a closure if a realistic comprehensive implementation plan to deliver the project
by December 2009 was not put immediately in place. This plan was prepared and agreed
with Borrower. It included the resolution of a series of urgent technical issues and a
reevaluation of the implementation targets.

This moment represented a turn-around for the project, and significant improvements
were noted starting in 2008, when the PC delegated further the approval responsibilities
to the PMU. The average bidding time was reduced from 12 months to 4 months. The
project was upgraded from MU to MS for the remaining life of the project and with the
subsequent extensions and additional financing, needed to cover the extra costs of delays
and the high inflationary period in 2008, it was possible to conclude all project activities
by June 2012.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

Design: At the time of appraisal, and as with many other Bank projects at this time, less
emphasis was placed on the adequate definition of results framework and development
indicators. In this case, although the original project indicators were relevant to the
project objective, the key performance indicators defined at appraisal were later assessed
to be too broad and difficult to measure and they could not be solely attributed to project
interventions, so they were modified at the restructuring in 2009. This change presented
an additional constraint to carrying out a realistic monitoring progress towards results, as




                                             9
the quality of the baseline information made it difficult to monitor progress and assess
results.

The changes in the PDO and RF were made following recommendations given by a
Country Program Review and QAG assessments. The PDO and KPIs were redefined in a
simpler and results-based manner, and these changes have allowed a more quantitative
measurement of results which are more directly linked to the project activities.

The restructuring also modified the financial covenant in the DCA related to the
establishment of wastewater tariffs. While the original covenant indicated the need to
recover O&M and depreciation costs by 2006, the modification just mentioned the need
to establish the tariff and for the corresponding revenues to be exclusively applicable in
the wastewater and drainage sector.

In retrospect, the PDO indicator on financial sustainability could have been defined in
terms of levels of cost recovery as this is more informative than a tariff. Section 3.5 (b)
offers more details on these achievements in the sector.

Implementation: project progress was regularly monitored and reported in periodic
progress reports, ISRs and AMs. The Bank held regular well-staffed missions to measure
physical, financial environmental, resettlement and land acquisition progress, which were
reported in the semi-annual progress reports. External resettlement and environmental
monitoring reports were prepared and submitted quarterly and later twice per year. The
PMU provided updates of all key monitoring indicators including land and property
values in the project area and the incidence of water related diseases (before the
restructuring), and on the extent and duration of flooding events; the quality of water in
the main canal; and the wastewater tariff (after restructuring).

Utilization: project indicators are being and will continue to be used by SCFC to monitor
the impact of floods in the NLTN basin. This is relevant to the operation of the pumping
station and sluice gates at the mouth of the canal 7. Monitoring the wastewater flow and
water quality in the interceptor will be used for the design of Phase II (new interceptor
and wastewater treatment plant), which is now under preparation by the Borrower and
Bank. Water quality in the canal and the river at the discharge point will continue to be
monitored as part of regular environmental surveillance to ensure pollution levels do not
go above established limits, so in case of that happening, the existing mitigation
mechanisms could be activated, such as the flushing of the canal through the opening the
two control gates installed for this purpose.




7
 The Borrower is involved in the construction of sluice gates and a pumping station at the mouth of the
NLTN canal as a flood control mechanism. The works are expected to be completed in October 2013.




                                                  10
2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

Social Safeguards.

During the project, and in terms of the adverse impact, the actual number of affected
households has resulted as estimated for the case of land acquisition at the waste water
pumping station. However, the number of affected businesses actually affected is only
one third (3,350) of that estimated at the beginning of the project due to the improved
construction methods that were adopted to help reduce the adverse impact on local
businesses along the streets.

In terms of compliance with social safeguards policy, both RAP 1 for the wastewater
pumping station and RAP 2 for the adverse impact on the local businesses along the
streets, were monitored. For RAP 2, however, some affected households (their
shop/business had access limited due the construction site) did not benefit from the tax
exemption from local tax agency because of the difficulties in determining whether the
adverse impact due to shop access restriction affected the income of the local business.

According to the independent monitoring consultant, 36% of affected local businesses
benefited from tax exemptions because their shops were obstructed by construction sites
which are assumed to affect the business income. There was always a social specialist as
part of the supervision missions to monitor the implementation of social safeguards and
to help build capacity for PMU.

There was an excellent collaboration between the PMU, the independent monitoring
consultant and the Bank’s task team in monitoring and solving issues related to land
acquisition and compensation for affected businesses in a timely manner.

Environmental Safeguards: The project was designated as category “A? with two
safeguard policies triggered: OP 4.01 on environmental Assessment and OP 4.12 on
Involuntary Resettlement. Consequently, a comprehensive Environmental Impact
Assessment, Environmental Management Plan, and Resettlement Action Plan were
carried out in close conformity with Bank and Vietnamese national policies.
Environmental and social factors were adequately incorporated in project design.

No unforeseen adverse environmental impacts arose during implementation. Effective
mitigation measures were taken promptly to ensure that all environmental indicators
remained within acceptable levels. Public consultations and information disclosure were
carried out continuously through community meeting, hotline, public media, newspapers,
internet and environmental protection campaigns.

Monitoring results show that there are non-significant impacts on NLTN canal water
during the construction phase. The new sewerage system avoids the discharge of about
400.000 m3/day of combined wastewater-runoff to the canal, contributing significantly to
the improvement of water quality. (Annex 8. Section 2 includes more detailed
information on water quality).



                                          11
About 1,050,000 m3 of sludge were dredged out from NLTN canal, and has been safely
and legally disposed: no water sources were polluted at the site and no complaints were
recorded from local residents at the sludge disposal sites. Environmental quality
monitoring after closing the dumping site did not find any problems on soils and surface
water.

Environmental auditing reports from the independent environmental consultant and
quarterly EMP implementation reports from the Construction Management Consultants
were submitted to the Bank regularly. Requirements of the Environmental Management
Plan have been fully addressed, with great care taken to minimize traffic and other
disruptions in the vicinity of construction sites. Safety, both of the public and workers,
has been given high priority on the construction sites.

Financial Management: The Financial Management reviews in regular supervision
missions identified that an adequate financial management system was in place that could
provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information that Bank loan
proceeds were being used for the intended purposes. The reviews also recognized
adequacy of financial management staffing, accounting and internal control systems,
maintenance of supporting documents in the Project and implementation of auditor
recommendations for annual audit. Financial Management was rated Moderately
Satisfactory mainly due to periodically late audit reports submission from 2007 to 2010
and challenges related to contract management, in particular regular failures to extend
contract closing dates in a timely way and generally loose contract management controls.
There was also a lack of coordination between accounting and procurement departments
in managing these contracts.

A total amount of US$ 35 million will remain undisbursed after project completion. The
reasons for this are related to payments assumed by client, omissions and overestimation
of the scope of work during the preparation of the additional financing, overestimation of
future inflation and unexpected favorable fluctuation of SDR-USD exchange rate.

Procurement: Generally the procurement guidelines were complied with. However the
procurement did not meet the expected schedule causing delays to the overall project
implementation. The unfamiliarity with ICB processes was an issue in the beginning.

Initial decisions on awarding large packages 7 and 10 took longer than expected as,
among other reasons, procurement advisory consultants questioned the quality of the
methodologies proposed by the bidder and disagreed with many of the unit rates included
in the pre-selected winning bids, which were considered in many cases about 30% below
market rates at the time and consequently considered that works could not be
satisfactorily and safely implemented with such rates. The activities related to these
unrealistically low priced components ended up causing problems during contract
implementation as the contractor tried to cut costs. This issue has been a source of
controversy and is further analyzed in section 5.1 and in annex 7.




                                           12
The first attempt to procure major civil works for extension and replacement of sewers
using larger packaging approach (Packages 11, 12 and 13) and prequalification had failed
due to the low number of applicants interested. To address the situation, the Bank had
agreed with the PMU to repackage those three contracts into six smaller ICB ones and
procure using post qualifications. Nevertheless, the second attempt also failed because
the bid prices offered exceeded the approved cost estimates and the PMU strongly
insisted for rebidding despite the Bank's advice for reconsideration since the cost
excesses were not substantial.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

UDC has now been contracted by SCFC to run and maintain the system of wastewater
collection and drainage in the city. They will operate the wastewater pumping station,
maintain the facilities and monitor the water quality in the canal.

The operation of the system is challenging because certain elements of it can be operated
differently according to the existing flow conditions on dry or wet weather and up or low
tides (draw off chambers in the upper canal, pumping timing and power, and sluices plus
additional pumping in the entrance of the canal). UDC has received training for the
operation of the pumping station and is now conducting regular monitoring of the water
flow and quality.

At the same time SCFC will be involved in the implementation of Phase II, which will be
centered on the construction of a wastewater treatment plant and the continuation of the
interceptor and additional collection of sewage in District 2. This will be the natural
continuation of the project as it will treat the wastewater that is now being discharged
into the Saigon River.

Institutionally, the operation of the pumping station, together with the maintenance of the
entire system (collector and sewers) will considerably increase system operating costs.
These costs will further increase in the future when the WWTP is in place (see annex 3).
Therefore, it has been agreed with the city that a realistic roadmap to increase the water
tariff, and the associated wastewater component, should be put in place with the objective
to achieve operational cost recovery and financial sustainability of the service in the
future.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives

   RATING: Satisfactory

At project completion the project’s objective, design and implementation remain relevant
to the current the CPS (2012-2016) by (i) contributing towards environmental
sustainability through improving sanitation systems and pollution control; and (ii)
mitigating the vulnerability at the household level from natural hazards. At project



                                            13
completion all components and activities also remained relevant to achieving the
objectives of HCMC of complying with the strategic lines of the wastewater master plan.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

RATING: Moderately Satisfactory

Achievement with respect to revised PDO: Overall, the objective of reducing the
incidence of flooding and increase the collection of wastewater in the Nhieu Loc-Thi
Nghe (NLTN) basin in HCMC, in an environmentally sustainable manner has been
achieved. From the institutional and financial perspective, while the wastewater tariffs
and cost recovery are still low, the sector has made considerable progress to set the
foundation for improved sustainability. The project has had a transformational impact on
the city in making it more livable and contributing to improve its economic
competitiveness.

The PDO was largely achieved despite the delays and extra costs during implementation
undermining its efficiency. For these efficiency reasons, the rating of PDO achievement
is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

Reduction in the number of household affected by two year return period storm

The combined sewerage and drainage network has been upgraded through the extension
of 51.5 km of renewed or newly constructed primary and secondary sewers. Moreover,
the hydraulic capacity of the NLTN canal has been augmented by dredging and removing
1,050,000 cubic meters of sediments and sludge.

During rainy days, combined rainfall runoff and sewage from households is discharged
through the upgraded network into the Combined Sewer Overflows in the main
interceptor along the canal. Part of the flow goes through the interceptor and the pumping
station, and is discharged into the Saigon River. Flow volumes exceeding the design
capacity of the interceptor 8 will be discharged in the canal. The entire drainage system is
now able to absorb a two year return period storm.

The PMU has estimated that the upgrading of the drainage system will benefit 88,000
households which will no longer suffer the consequences of flood events of this
magnitude. This implies an achievement of 90% compared with the initial target of
96,000. The difference corresponds to the reduction in the length of sewers constructed as
due to adjustments during construction. This indicator can be considered achieved.




8
  The CSOs have the capacity to absorb the design wet weather flow, which is calculated as approximately
a factor of 2 of the dry weather flow (wastewater from households).




                                                   14
Increase in the number of households whose wastewater is collected and disposed of
safely

Since before the project 30% of the NLTN households were not connected to the
sewerage network, and that network was discharging in the canal, this indicator aimed to
measure: (i) the connection of the 30% of households, and (ii) the safe collection and
disposal of wastewater from the totality of households in the basin by discharging it in
the river rather than in the canal.

As mentioned, the upgraded combined sewerage system is discharging wastewater in the
59 CSOs (three more than designed) and 9.1 km long interceptor. Wastewater is then
pumped under the Saigon River at the new pumping station and discharged in the outfall
at the East bank of the river. The interceptor CSOs, pumping station and outfall were
completed according to the original design.

Surveys conducted at the time of project completion indicate that 375 km of new tertiary
sewers have been built or upgraded by the district authorities since 2001, 175 more than
the target. This means that about 265,800 households (almost every household in the
basin) are now connected to the network. The upgraded network is connected to the
interceptor and pumping station and wastewater discharged in the Saigon River as
planned, and therefore safely disposed. Consequently, this indicator is considered
achieved.

Improvement in the water quality of NLTN canal

As a result of wastewater being diverted to the interceptor, the water quality in the canal
is expected to improve considerably. The flushing mechanism interceptor-drawn off
gates-canal should also contribute to moving stagnant water during the dry season. Water
quality in the canal has been monitored before, during and after project implementation
(annex 8, section 2).

The latest water quality testing conducted in November shows levels of DO of 1.6 mg/ l
on average. This is consistent with the fact that, at that time, there were still some CSOs
discharging water in the canal, as it took time after completion to do the connection to the
interceptor. The target value can therefore not yet considered to be achieved. However, it
is expected that water quality in the canal will gradually improve in the next 6 to 9
months, once the canal has been sufficiently flushed out. Continued and periodic
monitoring will be carried out by SCFC. Results will continue to be monitored and
reported to the Bank.

Implementation of agreed tariff schedule by the Ho Chi Minh People’s Committee

The target value established for the year 2009 was 450 VND per m3 on average. That
year the average tariff was 271 VND per m3. Today SCFC collects 10% of the water bill,
which translates, approximately, into 480 VND / m3. It is difficult to estimate what the
target tariff should be today, as no milestones beyond 2009 were set up at the time of



                                            15
restructuring. The financial covenant in the restructured FA indicated the need to
establish a tariff and to ring-fence the sector financially, so revenues from tariffs are kept
within the sector. These targets, more realistic than the original ones on full cost recovery,
have been met.

However, revenues from tariffs are not sufficient today to cover operational costs, and
compared to other cities in Vietnam, 10% of the water bill is considered low. Considering
the situation at the beginning of the project when there were no tariffs, important progress
was achieved, with a sector institutionally well-defined and cost recovery starting to take
off 9. Has a target been set for this indicator beyond 2009, a higher value would have
been expected for 2012, and therefore this indicator can be considered partially achieved.
Annex 3 analyzes this situation in more details.

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Economic: A combination of cost benefit and least-cost analysis was used at appraisal to
measure the economic impacts of the project. The analysis considered that it was not
possible to value in monetary terms the environmental, health and economic benefits
derived from the increase in land values along the canal, so the analysis was only
partially completed showing a negative NPV of VND 256 billion and an ERR of 9.9%.

The least-cost analysis concluded that the selected option was the least expensive to
attain the objectives of the project. A willingness to pay survey was also conducted,
where habitants of the NLTN basin recognized the impacts of flood as the most important
problem, so they were willing to pay up to VND 300 billion for improving sanitary
conditions in the basin. Overall, it was difficult to integrate the conclusions of the three
methodologies and therefore the analysis was not robust. This put constraints on the
assessment of the economic efficiency of the project at completion. This ICR used the
initial CBA to estimate the economic impact of the project at completion.

Although part of the cost overruns during implementation was attributable to the high
inflationary period between 2007 and 2009, project delays and other causes of cost
overruns negatively influenced the economic impact of the project. Some key project
benefits, such as those related to flood impact reduction, could only be validated after
flood events will indeed occur. However, if the hypothesis that the same benefits as
estimated at appraisal apply (since all project activities were completed as designed), the
effect of the delays and non-inflationary cost overruns would be a reduction in VND 100
billion in net present value terms (US$ 5 million) compared with what was initially
estimated, and a difference of 1.8 points less in the ERR.


9
  In the context of the preparation of phase II (new WWTP), the need to establish a tariff roadmap aiming
at cost recovery is being discussed.




                                                    16
However, benefits from the avoided capital and operation costs of septic tanks for new
constructions in the basin, should not be considered today as current city regulations still
mandate the construction of septic tanks for all new constructions in the districts within
the basin. Moreover, the evident transformation along the canal due to the project and
other complementary interventions by the city (traffic improvements, sidewalk widening,
gardens), evidence the economic benefits associated by these interventions. Analyzing
differences in land value prices increases between the canal area and other areas in the
city center, it was now possible to estimate this benefit at around VND 2800 billion.

Under these two considerations, the analysis shows a positive NPV of VND 80 billion
and economic rate of return of 13.2% (VND 330 billion and ERR 3.3 % higher than
estimated at appraisal). Annex 3 offers more detailed information on this analysis.

Financial: The financial sustainability of the sector alone still has to be proved. Tariffs in
the wastewater and drainage sector were established for the first time in 2001. The goal
was to recover full costs by 2006. By that time these targets proved too ambitious and
new targets were set: by 2009 a tariff of VND 450 / m3 was established but not achieved.
Today, the cost recovery rate through tariffs is still lower than planned and the
sustainability of the sector depends on the provision of city subsidies. There is little
predictability of such subsidies, as they vary from year to year according to the city
budget allocation needs.

The tariff rate is today fixed as a percentage of the water bill. Although this arrangement
is to be reviewed periodically, the annual increases in revenue depend exclusively on the
increases in the water tariff which is revised by the city on an annual basis. This
arrangement presents some challenges as these annual tariff review increases are more
influenced by the financial situation and interests of the Water Supply Company than by
those of SCFC. Estimates on affordability show that there is margin to increase revenues
from tariffs.

SCFC will assume a considerable increase in O&M costs this year with the operation of
the pumping station which is depending on the good maintenance of the sewers and
interceptor to avoid garbage to obstruct the system. Such increase in costs, estimated at
VND 116 billion for 2013 will need to be added to others related to the operation of the
new sluice gates and pumping station at the mouth of the canal to be in operation in 2014.
With phase II in the pipeline, the need to increase the financial independence of the sector
to guarantee its future sustainability is clear. More details are included in Annex 3.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The relevance of the revised PDO was satisfactory because it was well aligned with the
Borrower’s strategy and with the CPS throughout the project’s life cycle. The activities of
the project were also successfully completed as designed, and the revised objectives have



                                             17
been largely achieved, but with a lower efficiency than expected due to the delays and
cost overruns.

Achievement of Project Development Objectives has been assessed with respect to the
original PDO and RF and the revised ones following the formula provided in the ICR
guidelines.

Achievement with respect to original PDO: There is no doubt that the project has
contributed to the higher level objective of improvements to the public health and well-
being of the residents of HCMC and promoted economic development in the commercial
center of the city. However, attribution and monitoring were difficult to measure as these
objectives were too broad. For this reason the achievement against the original DO is
rated as Moderately Unsatisfactory.

The MU rating for the original PDO and KPIs carries 39% of weight and the MS rating
for the revised PDO and KPIs carry 61% of weight To take into account the
disbursements level at the time of the restructuring. Overall, the weighted PDO rating is
MS.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

This project did not include activities specifically focused on improving the lives of
particular target groups, with the exception of the expansion of tertiary sewers to the
unconnected, which are supposed to be the poorer areas of the basin and the construction
of a number of public toilets financed by city districts. Yet, it is well known that
economically disadvantaged populations suffer disproportionately from a poor living
environment. In this case, the poorest were the ones suffering the worst consequences of
the frequent flooding and unsanitary conditions, so, although there is no supporting data
to justify this fact, those groups are likely to have benefitted most from the project.

The analysis conducted in annex 3 shows that the water, wastewater and drainage
services are affordable by the entire population, including the poor.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The institutional transformation of the wastewater and drainage sector in the city was
remarkable, which the project has supported. In the year 2000, these services were
provided by a department of the municipal government with low quality of service and
with no provisions for financial sustainability. The sector underwent important
institutional reforms and today it is in a better position to provide higher quality services
to the habitants of HCMC. The main change was the separation between the ownership
of the infrastructure and responsibility for the service provision (SCFC) and the
operation (UDC).




                                            18
More specifically, UDC operates as a Public Service Enterprise. It uses corporate
accounting and works under a service contract with SCFC based on agreed unit rates and
measured volumes of work. The rates are proposed by UDC annually and negotiated
with SCFC under the supervision of the Department of Transport and Public Works, and
with the approval of DOF. UDC is responsible for Level 2 and Level 3 (primary and
secondary) sewers and part of Level 1 (the non-navigable sections of canals). UDC is
also assuming the operation of the existing wastewater treatment plants and will assume
the operation of the pumping station under this project. District Urban Management
Units are responsible for Level 4 (tertiary) sewers.

SCFC has also been strengthened. It now follows a new Development Plan, has an
Information Management strategy which will be soon implemented and a new
Operations and Maintenance manual which is shared with UDC. Its staff has been
trained in English, financial management, administration, and environmental
management.

However, as discussed in section 3.3, the level of financial sustainability of the service
provision is still weak for the level of service that the new infrastructure in place is
designed to provide. This raises alerts on the need to improve the predictability of
revenues in the medium term that guarantee a sound operation and maintenance of the
systems.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The project upgraded the canal area avoiding wastewater being diverted in the canal,
rebuilding the canal banks, dredging it to increase its capacity and avoid overflows during
intensive rainy periods. While these interventions are central to the project objectives,
they were also triggers to others funded by the city, such as improvements in parallel and
adjacent streets, widening sidewalks or new gardens along the canal. The whole set of
interventions have transformed this part of the city from a marginal big open sewer to a
dynamic radiant neighborhood. Private investment in the form of small businesses and
new residences along the canal are significantly increasing and the new spaces along the
canal are being used for social and recreational purposes. (See Annex 8 for photographs
from before and after the project).

In addition, although this was not conceived specifically as a climate change adaptation
project, the new infrastructure in place will strengthen HCMC’s more densely populated
wards’ resilience to flood events, which under the most probable climate change
scenarios are increasing in frequency and intensity.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

Currently, illegal solid waste dumping in the sewers and canal is a major problem and a
threat for the adequate operation of the system and the drainage capacity of the basin.



                                            19
This is the cause of a considerable additional effort to keep the facilities in good
condition and to avoid obstructions in the pumping station. Clear measures need to be put
in place to reduce this problem to a minimum. There is already an Information Education
and Communication program implemented by the city authorities that should be
continued and expanded. Installation of additional screening at road gullies/catchpits
within the NLTN basin should be adopted commencing with a survey, to be conducted
soon, and preparation of a cost estimate. This should also be well coordinated with a
sound solid waste management policy in the city.

Operation and Maintenance costs are likely to further increase due to the operation of the
new facilities. Costs are expected to keep rising in the long term with the future operation
of a new waste water treatment plant. For that reason, it is important to ensure predictable
revenue that allows allocating enough funds to carry out the required O&M activities.
This flow of funds should ideally be coming from a progressively increasing wastewater
tariff, entirely directed to the provision of wastewater and drainage services, and a
progressively shrinking subsidy. With this purpose, during the preparation of phase II, the
municipal government has committed to update the city’s tariff roadmap for the next
years.

Adequate operation of the pumping station, in coordination with the pumps and sluice
gates at the mouth of the canal requires a sound knowledge of all the variables involved,
such as the runoff levels related to the intensity and duration of a specific rainfall event,
the hydraulic capacity and concentration time in the canal, the tides…etc. In that sense
UDC will benefit from additional training and capacity building activities.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance.

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The project was well justified and its objectives were closely aligned with the CAS and
the Borrower’s policy instruments such as the HCMC Wastewater Master Plan. The
project was prepared with sufficient time, taking advantage of the progress made by the
local government in the previous six years in transforming the area around the canal in
the NLTN basin.

Feasibility studies were also prepared way in advance, and served as basis to elaborate
the corresponding bidding documentation. By the time of project approval, technical
designs and bidding documents for an amount of US$ 60 million were ready as a
requirement of the Bank’s readiness filter for projects in Vietnam.

Detailed designs were approved with some delays due to small discrepancies with the
preliminary designs at the FS. There are also some emerging concerns of overdesign of



                                             20
the sewerage component of phase I, derived from an overestimation of the wastewater
production and future population. Yet, since the capacity of the drainage system is not
high (2 year return period storm), the interceptor and pumping station also provide some
additional drainage capacity to the system during storm events 10.

The Bank team during preparation, mostly based in Vietnam, was well staffed, with
senior expertise in all fields. The team was able to engage with other development
partners in the sector (JICA, Finnish Cooperation, PHRD) so additional funds were used
during preparation to conduct various preliminary studies. Extensive consultations were
effectively carried out with all relevant project stakeholders, and particularly with project
beneficiaries and project affected people.

In the context of the decentralization agenda, the team put considerable effort to try to
understand the time requirements for approval processes within the Government and tried
to set up a realistic implementation agenda for the project. Yet, these assumptions did not
fully capture the political implications around this important project, and setting up a
longer implementation period would have been more appropriate.

The decision to introduce activities of technical assistance for the preparation of technical
designs and for construction management was the right one. Certainly the challenges
during implementation would have been magnified if this valuable support was not in
place.

As mentioned, there were several shortcomings at the design stage. The economic
analysis could have been better defined. If CBA was not feasible due to the difficulty of
collecting relevant data on benefits, then the analysis could have more effectively focused
on fully developing the cost-effectiveness methodology, making explicit each alternative
and its corresponding costs in more detail. The assumption that no septic tanks would be
needed for new construction after the project completion has not proven to be appropriate,
as there is still no wastewater treatment plant in place. Also, for a project with works of
such complex technical requirements, more emphasis could have been given to preparing
more detailed technical specifications and pre-qualification criteria to better ensure the
use of more appropriate construction techniques and methodologies.

In addition, the results framework selected to monitor the results of this project could
have been better defined as indicated in section 2.3. The PDO was too broad and
ambitious so it was not possible to attribute it to project interventions. However, this
issue was not uncommon at the time of project preparation. The task team reacted to this
issue and elaborated a more realistic set of indicators during the project restructuring in
2009. Likewise, the financial covenant indicating the need to recover O&M costs, plus




10
     The capacity of the interceptor is about 6% of the canal capacity.




                                                       21
depreciation and interests by 2006 included in the DCA was not realistic. This was also
amended during the restructuring.

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Starting early during implementation, project supervision was planned and carried out
effectively. Supervision teams were appropriately staffed to address and report on
implementation issues as they emerged. The team concentrated from the beginning on
solving the challenges related to the various causes of delays. Official supervision
missions were planned twice a year, but one or two additional follow-up missions were
carried out to provide implementation support.

By 2006 the accumulated delay was considerable and the team correctly downgraded
project implementation to MU, and U the next year. The team made remarkable efforts
through the entire project life to maintain constant contact with project authorities and to
offer strong support to try to resolve the many pending issues. The Bank rightly took
determined actions to elevate communications at the adequate city and ministerial levels.
These actions proved to be the right ones, as they often derived in continued progress,
making it possible to bring the project to an end.

It would have been beneficial for the restructuring to modify the PDO and RF earlier
instead of 8 years into implementation. Several restructuring happened before that, and
could have included these changes to a revised the DO and KPIs. The amount of
undisbursed funds at project closing is significant, as US$ 35 million, and had it been
detected earlier, the funds could have been cancelled reprogrammed to other IDA
operations in Vietnam.

For all the reasons explained in section 2, this was a project that was very difficult to
supervise. Yet, despite of all the difficulties, the Bank team saw things through and made
the right choices to bring the project to a successful completion. The Bank team gave
adequate support to the client in all project supervision activities. It showed proactivity
and flexibility by amending the legal agreements and restructuring the project to improve
the results framework and reflect the new implementation arrangements resulting from a
new institutional framework in the sector. When the pace of implementation picked up in
2008 the team envisioned a successful completion of the project and rightly requested the
corresponding closing date extensions and additional financing. This proved to be the
correct decision as all the project activities were successfully completed within six
months later of the closing date established in the Additional Financing project paper.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory




                                            22
Consistent with the Bank’s performance at quality at entry and during supervision, the
Overall Bank Performance is rated as Moderately Satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance

(a) Government Performance

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

National and local authorities showed commitment to the project from the moment of
project design to the final day of completion. Reflection of this are the institutional
reforms in the wastewater and drainage sector such as the implementation of the
wastewater tariff in 2001, and the subsequent increases in 2004, 2006, 2008 and 2010, or
the establishment of SCFC and corporatization of UDC. Counterpart funding has been
adequate for this project, covering certain key components such as the Saigon River
Crossing or the expansion of the tertiary sewer network and resettlement compensation.

It was expected that decentralization would streamline the different approval processes,
but because of how new this project was city officials continued to follow old procedures
and perhaps certain risk aversion attitude towards the magnitude of the project
contributed to impose additional clearance procedures. The times for these additional
clearances were also unpredictable, even when the Bank team had made an important
effort to come up with a realistic implementation agenda considering these factors.
Delays worsened with time and the reaction from the government side to speed things up
was too slow.

During project preparation these processes should have been better mapped and
anticipated so as to better schedule project implementation. The accumulated delay and
lack of apparent willingness to change this slow pace ended up being a major constraint
affecting implementation progress and at some point the entire project was at risk of
being canceled.

The institutional changes in the wastewater and drainage sector could have been better
explained to the Bank so the activities under component 3 on Institutional Strengthening
could have been implemented as programmed, avoiding inefficiencies due to repeated
changes in scope and focus.

The year 2008 marked an inflexion point with key supervision tasks being delegated to
the municipal level. By that critical moment at the end of 2007, the city Government
showed greater commitment by endorsing a new implementation plan, and by taking
decisive actions such as allowing for more flexible and longer construction working
hours, and delegating some of the decision-making processes to the PMU. It also held
high level meetings with the contractors to solve the pending issues.




                                           23
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The overall PMU performance in conducting designs reviews and implementing
environmental and social safeguards measures is considered moderately satisfactory. The
quality of monitoring and reporting on the project indicators was sometimes irregular,
but the PMU maintained strong commitment to solve the obstacles causing delays, which
was key to be able to upgrade the project implementation to MS and pursue the
consequent restructurings, AF and corresponding extensions.

The PMU could have enforced more strongly the obligation of the contractors to comply
with health, safety, environmental and traffic requirements. This could have reduced
some of the delays occurring during project implementation. Another related issue found
was the lack of enforceability of penalties included in the contracts to the bad
performance local contractors, where there appears to be reluctance to retain liquidated
damages.

In general, the PMU's handling of procurement processes satisfactorily complied with the
agreed procurement procedures with good reputation. Nonetheless, during the execution
of some contracts, the PMU did not fully comply with the Bank's prior review procedures
for the modifications of signed contracts which has caused significant difficulties to the
Bank's review and clearance of such modifications.

During regular supervision mission and in annual audited financial reports, the Bank task
team and the auditor respectively have raised some recommendations to improve the
Project accounting and internal control system such as upgrading the Project accounting
software, archive accounting data, insufficient counterpart fund allocated, contract
management system. The PMU has implemented these recommendations throughout the
years.

The improvements in the efficiency of project implementation were also consequence of
an increasing capacity in financial management, procurement and technical supervision,
thanks in part to the influence of the technical assistance on institutional strengthening
and the close collaboration on a day to day basis with the construction supervision
consultants.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Considering the progress made in overcoming the initial challenges during
implementation, the Overall Borrower Performance is considered to be Moderately
Satisfactory.




                                           24
6. Lessons Learned

Transformational Project and perseverance against odds: This was a high risk project
that ended up having a transformational impact in HCMC. The Bank has made a
considerable impact by staying engaged through thick and thin on a project that was
critical to improving the life of the residents of NLTN basin.

Political economy issues: A key lesson learned is the importance of the need to
understand the political economy around the institutional decentralization process in
Vietnam. Despite intensive efforts to set up a realistic implementation agenda, it was not
possible to predict the time for approval processes on the government side or the reasons
behind the additional reviews at different government levels.

Decree 209: The application of decree 209 requiring additional information from the
Contractor in certification processes introduced new delays in the implementation of
construction projects. It would be therefore useful for the Government to review this
policy with the purpose of simplifying payment processes to contractors, reducing
bureaucratic constraints in project implementation and consequent delays.

Construction in dense urban environments: In cities like HCMC urban utilities need to
start thinking of mapping their infrastructure using GIS tools. This will facilitate
coordination when building or maintaining new or existing networks (including
electricity, water, wastewater, telecom and transport).

Project implementation period: large infrastructure investments in challenging urban
environments need sufficient implementation time. In such cases, phasing of the
investments should be considered - either through an APL or through discrete Bank
projects where it is clear that activities can start and finish within 5 years.

Need for a septage management strategy: In the process of modernization of urban
sanitation the city needs to have a comprehensive and integral vision of the key
challenges in the sector, and future interventions will have to be coherent with this vision.
The majority of the city habitants still rely on septic tanks which are not regularly
emptied or maintained and septage not safely treated or disposed. A combination of a
short and long term strategy to address this issue is urgently needed.

Household connectivity should be better integrated in the project. This project only
included tertiary sewers and household connections as an indirect activity to be financed
by local districts. Fortunately, the expansion of the tertiary network matched the pace of
expansion of the primary and secondary network financed by the project. However, there
was a risk of this not happening if it is not monitored closely. Failing to connect the
households could have had the consequence of failing to achieve the main project goals.

Financial sustainability of the wastewater sector cannot be overlooked. The project was
initially unrealistic in aiming at full cost recovery. However, progress has been made
since the establishment of tariffs more than one decade ago. Next interventions in the



                                             25
sector will need to comprehensively address this issue of sustainability to avoid putting
the future investments at risk. Stronger financial independence of the sector through
increasing revenues from tariffs is desired and a long term realistic tariff increase
roadmap is needed for that purpose.

Linkage between wastewater and solid waste sectors needs to be addressed. Last, solid
waste management has proven to be strongly linked to the wastewater sector, as illegal
dumping in the streets results in higher than expected maintenance costs of the network in
order to avoid undesired problems in the sewers and pumping station. Continuity should
be given to the measures put in place by the city together with others like imposing fines
or engaging district authorities in environmental surveillance activities and promoting
community-based environmental protection action.


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Borrower/implementing agencies:

The ICR was shared with Government authorities from the Department of Transport,
SCFC and the Project Management Unit. The main observations made are the following:

   -   The interceptor and pumping station have been also designed for flood alleviation
       purposes.

   -   The relocation of the water main was delayed mainly because the contractor of
       package 10 refused to undertake that activity. Once SAWACO assumed the
       responsibility for the work, it was carried out without further delays.

   -   The low rate of application of penalties to low performance contractors is due to
       the lack of specific clauses in the contractual conditions for imposing penalties to
       the contractors.

   -   An important lesson learned could be added regarding contract management: it
       should be adequately strengthened, allowing for the mobilization of the necessary
       resources.




                                           26
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing


Table 1. Project Cost by Component (in US$ equivalent)

                       Original                                                                       IDA
                                   Revised Costs (including AF)        Actual Estimate Amounts
    Component           Costs                                                                      Difference
                                   Total      IDA    Counterpart      Total      IDA Counterpart
Wastewater                60.2       89.2       79.7         9.5        70.7      62.89   7.81
Drainage                  96.9      202.0      182.8       19.2        216.3    166.76   49.54
Technical Assistance      14.4       19.9       19.6         0.3        21.7      18.35   3.35
Vehicles and               0.9        0.9        0.9
Equipment
Land Acquisition           3.3        3.3                       3.3       2.3               2.30
Incremental                1.6        1.6                       1.6       5.0               5.00
Operating Costs of
the PMU
Price Contingencies       22.5
Total Costs              200        316.9     283.0      33.9         316.0     248.0    68.0         35.0




Table 2. Financing

                                                                                 Percentage of
                    Appraisal      Revised    Actual/Latest     Percentage of
Source of Funds                                                                    Revised
                    Estimate      Estimates     Estimate         Appraisal
                                                                                  Estimates
IDA Credits             166.34        283.0           248.0           149.09%         87.63%
Counterpart Fund         33.62         33.9            68.0           202.26%        200.59%
            Total       199.96        316.9           316.0           158.03%         99.72%




                                              27
Annex 2. Outputs by Component


                            OUTPUTS BY COMPONENTS

Component 1: Wastewater

The project designed to have the wastewater diverted from the combined sewers around
56 combined storm overflow chambers into an interceptor sewer 8.4km long running
parallel to, and largely under, the NLTN Canal. The interceptor discharges by gravity into
a Wastewater Pumping Station, equipped with mechanical screens to remove solids, and
discharges through an outfall. The outfall is built as a tunnel which discharges into the
Saigon River through a diffuser designed to maximize mixing and dilution. To improve
the canal water quality in the dry season, when there is limited natural flushing of the
canal and a tendency for septic conditions to develop, two special draw-off chambers will
be located in the upper section of the canal to enable low quality to be drawn off into the
interceptor sewer.

After completion, the project constructed:

As Appraised                              As Implemented
(i) 8.4 km of wastewater interceptor with • 9.051km of wastewater interceptor, of
inside diameter of 3000mm;                  which 1.217km with an inside diameter
                                            of 2500mm and 7.834km with an inside
                                            diameter of 3000mm;
(ii) around 56 combined storm overflow • 59 combined storm overflows (CSOs)
(CSOs) chambers from 4m to 6m deep with     chambers from 4m to 6m deep with plan
plan dimensions varying from 2m to 4m       dimensions varying from 2x4m to 4x6m;
wide by 4m to 6m long;
(iii) 2 canal flushing chambers;          • Done as designed
(iv) 0.8km of outfall to the Saigon River • 0.82km outfall to the Saigon River with
with inside diameter of 3000mm;             inside diameter 3000mm;

(v) a wastewater pumping station, with a          • Done as designed
hydraulic capacity of 64,000 m3/hr
comprising of 6 mechanically cleaned bar
screens, 12 constant speed, submersible
non-clog pumps, each capable of pumping
6400 m3/hr against a 20m head; and
(vi) a control and data acquisition system        • Done as designed
(SCADA) to monitor and control canal
water quality.




                                             28
Component 2: Drainage Component
Under the Drainage Component, the project completed the following tasks:

As Appraised                               As Implemented
(i) Replacement and extension of 72km of • Replaced and extended 51.521km of
combined primary and secondary sewers        combined primary and secondary sewers
comprising pipes from 0.6m to 1.8m and       comprising pipes from 0.6m to 2m in
culverts from 1.2m to 4m wide in the basin   diameters and culverts from 1.2m to 5m
to reduce flooding and overflows of          wide in the basin
combined stormwater and wastewater onto
the streets;
(ii) Dredging, transportation and disposal • Dredged, transported and disposed
of approximately 1,100,000m3 of sludge       approximately 1,050,000 m3 of sludge
and excavated materials to increase the      and excavated material to increase the
hydraulic capacity of NLTN, and related      hydraulic capacity of the canal;
strengthening      of    18km   of   canal   Strengthened 16.778km of canal
embankments;                                 embankments using sheet piles, the
                                             difference was due to the fact that not
                                             the whole canal bank could be
                                             strengthened with sheet piles. Where not
                                             possible, such as at the foot of a bridge, a
                                             structure was put in place to secure the
                                             surrounding area.
(iii) field investigation of some 54km of • Investigated of some 54km of pre-1954
pre-1954 brick secondary combined sewers     brick secondary combined sewers using
using CCTV techniques and deign and          CCTV techniques, and redesigned and
rehabilitation of up to 30km, where          rehabilitated 5.171km of these sewers;
necessary;
(iv) extension of around 270km of tertiary • Extended around 375km of tertiary
sewers with diameter less than 0.4m to       (level 4) sewers, using local resources.
connect the 30% of mainly low-income
houses in the basin that are not currently
linked to the system.

Component 3: Technical Assistance and Institutional Strengthening

(i) Design Consultant: Detailed design for the wastewater component was carried out by
CDM International Inc. using a Project Preparation Advance. This contract was awarded
on July 12, 2000 with a Contract Completion Date of December 31, 2001. The design for
the drainage component was also carried out by CDM International Inc. as part of the
project implementation and was completed in April 2005.

(ii) Construction Supervision Consultant: The contract was signed with CDM
International Inc. on August 15, 2003, 3 years after the Procurement Notice. For
assessment of CDM performance under this assignment please refer to Section 5 of the
ICR.


                                           29
(iii) Institutional Strengthening and Capacity Building: The Institutional Strengthening
work was aimed at helping UDC adapt to its new role as an operational Public Service
Enterprise with a guaranteed revenue stream (and therefore responsible for repaying the
loan in the future). In addition to corporate planning and financial aspects, the technical
assistance was expected to help UDC develop capacity to procure and supervise service
contracts covering operation and maintenance activities. At appraisal, the technical
assistance to UDC included: (a) a corporate plan; (b) an upgraded financial accounting
system; (c) environmental standards, monitoring procedures, and public awareness
campaigns; (d) procedures for contracting operation and maintenance work; (e)
preventative maintenance procedures and related costing methods for maintenance work;
(f) an integrated MIS; and (g) a human resource development strategy and related
training.

The contract was signed with COLENCO on February 27, 2004 but was not completed
until June 30, 2010, more than two years after the anticipated date of March 01, 2008.
However, the outputs done within the first 18 months were largely lost due to several
institutional rearrangements in 2005-2006 and 2008, which reassigned the role of asset
management vis-à-vis this project first to the Urban Transport Management Department 1
(UTMD1) within the Department of Transport & Public Works, and then to the Flood
Control Center (FCC) – or the Steering Center for Flood Control (SCFC) 11 as it is known
today – in 2008 (details of the rearrangements are illustrated below). With such
rearrangements, the scope of work under this contract was revised significantly, and
COLENCO was asked to shift their focus to UTMD1 and SCFC. It was at least fortunate
that the staff members from UTMD1 drainage and wastewater divisions were reassigned
to SCFC and therefore the training program retained a level of continuity.

Within this package 3, COLENCO provided the following technical assistance to the
project:

As Appraised                         As Implemented
(a) a corporate plan;                • A Business Planning template was also
                                       delivered    to     UDC    before   the
                                       rearrangements;
                                     • An        organization     plan     for
                                       UTMD1/Drainage         and   Wastewater
                                       Divisions
                                     • A Development Plan has been prepared
                                       and approved for SCFC;
(b) an upgraded financial accounting • The procurement for 15B (Accounting
system;                                and Financial Management System), and
                                       15C     (Integrated     Operation  and


11
     The ICR will refer to this institution as SCFC for consistency




                                                       30
                                                Maintenance Management System) was
                                                significantly delayed due to delays in
                                                other projects in the city. Therefore the
                                                procurement of these packages was
                                                canceled during the supervision mission
                                                in April 2011.
(c) environmental standards, monitoring •       Two       courses     in     environmental
procedures,  and     public  awareness          management (28 teaching hours in total)
campaigns;                                      were delivered as part of the professional
                                                training program in part (g) below;
                                            •   Public Relation & Community Education
                                                Strategy and some relevant activities
                                                were developed and proposed to
                                                UTMD1 but were not approved in time.
                                                Currently activities are undertaken under
                                                this Strategy with funding from the city.
(d) procedures for contracting O&M work;    •   A draft management contract for the
                                                operation and maintenance of the NLTN
                                                Pumping Station and an option report
                                                were delivered.
(e) preventative maintenance procedures •       An O&M Manual, as approved and
and related costing methods for                 accepted by PMU and SCFC in 2010,
maintenance work;                               and training was            provided by
                                                construction contractor on O&M
                                                procedures to UDC and SCFC staff;
(f) an integrated MIS;                      •   COLENCO delivered an MIS Strategy
                                                and bidding documents for the hardware
                                                and systems software platform (Package
                                                14B) and for a Web Portal and
                                                associated software (Package 15A). But
                                                the procurement was canceled during the
                                                supervision mission in April 2011 due to
                                                delays in related projects of the city and
                                                not having sufficient time for the
                                                procurement        and     implementation
                                                processes.
(g) a human resource development strategy •     An HR Strategy for UTMD1/Drainage
and related training.                           and Wastewater Divisions and job
                                                TORs;
                                            •   Assessment of training needs and a
                                                proposed training program to address
                                                those needs for UTMD1 and SCFC;
                                            •   15        training       courses       (25
                                                participants/course) for UTMD1 and
                                                SCFC staff with total time of 208
                                                teaching hours on topics including (1)


                                           31
                                               general management and administration;
                                               (2) management information systems; (3)
                                               environmental management; and (4) out-
                                               contract management;
                                             • English communication courses in 2
                                               phases for a total number of 70
                                               participants from SCFC, UDC, and
                                               PMU.

(iv) External Environment Monitoring: the work was contracted out to ENTEC on August
8, 2003 and has been carried out up to April 30, 2012. ENTEC has regularly conducted
environmental quality monitoring at agreed sites and prepared auditing reports under the
supervision and review of the Bank’s environment specialist. At the start, there were
some issues with ENTEC duplicating some of the work done by CDM environmental
specialists to measure health, environment, safety and traffic aspects, and consequently a
lack of independent judgment of ENTEC on some measurements. However, these issues
were addressed and resolved between ENTEC and the project team. The environmental
monitoring reports have been included in the aide memoires and discussed with the client
along the supervision period.

 (v) Financial Auditing responsibility was contracted to PricewaterhouseCoopers
(FY2002-2007), AASC (FY2008), and KPMG (FY2009-2011). They have all fulfilled
their responsibility and submitted auditing reports on time to the Bank’s Financial
Management Specialist to discuss key issues for improvement with the PMU.

(vi) Independent Monitoring of RAP implementation: In 2001, HADECON was awarded
the contract which they completed in December 2012. HADECON submitted reports to
the PMU and the Bank’s social development specialists to monitor the implementation of
the RAP as required.




                                           32
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

Economic Analysis

Economic Background: Ho Chi Minh City has continued to lead the economic growth
of the country in the last decade. Average annual GDP growth between 2005 and 2010
has been consistently over 10 %. Exports from the city make up to 40% of the entire
country. As of June 2006, the city has been home to three export processing zones and
twelve industrial parks. Ho Chi Minh City is the leading receiver of foreign direct
investment in Vietnam, with 2,530 FDI projects worth 16.6 $ billion at the end of 2007.

Project Benefits and Costs: The project objectives remained unchanged and focused on
avoiding frequent floods in the basins and improving the sanitary conditions of
households in the NLTN basin. Despite delays, all project activities were completed as
planned.

The economic justification of the project was initially assessed through a cost–benefit
analysis at appraisal that was complemented with a least-cost analysis due to the
difficulties in quantifying health, environmental and new economic development-related
benefits. However, the least cost analysis did not clearly state the different technical
alternatives to achieve the project objectives and its corresponding costs, and therefore
the conclusions of the economic analysis were not clear. The assessment was further
complemented with a socio-economic user survey that confirmed that the need to solve
the frequent flooding problems and unsanitary conditions of the basin was considered a
high priority among NLTN dwellers. Their willingness to pay was broadly consistent
with the proposed tariff for the wastewater service at that time.

In order to have a sense of how the economic analysis results could have changed after
project completion due to implementation delays and cost overruns, an exercise was now
conducted to update the cost-benefit analysis by using the hypothesis that, as all project
activities have been completed as planned, the key assumptions behind some project
benefits would still hold. Costs estimated at appraisal were then expressed in real terms,
discounting the effect of inflation.

The discount factor used and the time life of the new infrastructure was maintained for
the purpose of this update: 12% and 45 years after completion, respectively. This analysis
estimates the NPV in the year base (1999) and ERR. The results of this analysis are
shown below:

Project costs: Annex 2 summarizes the final project costs compared to costs estimated at
appraisal. The project had an extra cost of US$ 89 million in nominal terms. This
difference is reduced to US$ 26 million if the effects of inflation are discounted 12. Project


12
     In real prices of 1999.




                                             33
activities were completed with a total accumulated delay of almost 5 years. Consequently,
the NPV of the total costs (capital and future expected O&M) after project completion is
estimated at VND 847,7 billion compared to VND 1,233.8 billion at appraisal.

Project benefits: At appraisal, the following were expected to be the main economic
benefits from the project:

Reduced flood damage: Reduced flood damage was estimated on the basis of a survey of
damage to households caused by a 5-year storm, which occurred in HCMC in 1994. The
costs included physical damage to property and possessions, cleanup, loss of commercial
goods and loss of trading income. The analysis estimated that these costs were equivalent
to VND 34.1 million per hectare (US$ 2,436/ha) of area flooded. The benefits associated
to the project were calculated with the reduction of flooded area due to the new drainage
infrastructure. The flooded area was calculated using the SWMM hydraulic model. This
exercise assumes that, as the scope of the drainage works were constructed with no or
small variations related to the design, the benefit of avoided damage due to floods
remains the same. The NPV of reduced flood damage considering project delays is now
estimated at VND 182 billion compared to VND 384 billion at appraisal.

Avoided cost of Private Flood Protection: This benefit accounts for the monetary value of
physical modifications to private properties made as preventive measures for flood
protection assuming that these works would be no longer needed as a consequence of
reduction in flood events due to the project. This update assumes that this hypothesis is
still valid and therefore the economic value is only updated to the new timeline. This
benefit is now estimated at a NPV of VND 153.2 billion compared to VND 292 at
appraisal.

Time savings: At appraisal, it was estimated that avoided floods will also mitigate the
frequent traffic disruptions within the basin. Data from surveys showed that the average
storm delayed traffic by about 30 minutes on average. Using data from traffic counts and
overlapping it with flood maps, it was assumed that 20 % of the traffic could be affected
during a storm. Using the average wage rate, this benefit was estimated in VND 115
billion. Assuming that these hypotheses are still valid, and the annualized benefits are
only adjusted to the new timeline, the updated associated benefit is a NPV of VND 65
compared to VND 115 calculated at appraisal.

Savings in installation and desludging of septic tanks: At appraisal, it was assumed that
all new constructions in the NLTN basin after project completion would not be required
to build septic tanks since households could directly connect to the new sewer system.,
Consequently, it was assumed that there would be a saving in both the investment in
septic tanks of future constructions and the corresponding desludging services. This
benefit was estimated at VND 129 billion. However, and despite the completion of the
new sewerage network in the basin as planned (included tertiary sewers and household
connections), current regulation still mandates the construction of septic tanks in
consolidated urban soil also for new buildings. There is no signal that this regulation will




                                            34
be eliminated in the short or medium term. Consequently this benefit is today estimated
at zero.

Public Health Benefits: The initial analysis acknowledged the potential of the project to
improve the sanitary and health conditions of the residents in the basin. However, it did
not quantify them due to the complexity of attributing these benefits to the project. For
the same reasons this component was also not quantified this time. Data from the
Department of Health collected up to 2006 shows certain improvement in the incidence
of cases of malaria, dysentery, diarrhea or typhoid and it is very possible that the
improvement of sanitary conditions in the basin, although not much advanced in 2006,
could have contributed to this progress.

Encouraging New Investments and Economic Development: the other benefit that was not
calculated at appraisal was the increase in land value in the areas around the canal,
mainly due to the difficulty of predicting the nature of the development that would take
place and speculating on future property values. However, now that the project is
completed, it is indeed possible to estimate this benefit. Property prices in areas around
the canal were collected after project completion. The difference of land value in these
areas before and after the project was compared with the average difference before and
after the project in other areas of the basin. The table below shows the results of the
survey:

       Table 1: Land price increases. (Source: PMU)

Land prices in USD / Year 1999                    Year 2012             Increase
m2 (average)
Area around the      195                          2140                  1945
Canal
Average of other     1950                         2855                  905
areas in the Basin


Therefore, an economic benefit of US$ 1040 / m2 could be attributed to the interventions
around the area of the canal. These are mainly the improvements in the canal, but also the
works on parks and conditioning in the area financed by the city. Therefore an
assumption was made that 70% of the associated benefits of increased land value could
be associated to the project. Calculating the area of the first line of properties along 8 km
of canal gives a total benefit of VND 4,077 billion. It is assumed that this is benefit is
materialized through transactions occurring during the next five years following project
completion, giving a total NPV of VND 528.

Cost-benefit analysis summary: The main results of the updated CBA are included in
the table 2 below.

The first column indicates the results of the analysis at appraisal. It showed a negative
NPV of VND 251 billion and a ERR of 9.9 percent, acknowledging that the health


                                             35
benefits and the benefits derived from the increase in land value prices were not possible
to calculate. A sensitivity analysis was also conducted at that time accounting for possible
delays during implementation and also capital costs overruns. This analysis showed that a
capital cost overrun of 20% implied a loss of NPV of VND 232 billion and a reduction in
the ERR of 1.4 percent (second column). The consequences of a delay of two years
would decrease in the NPV an additional VND 18 billion.

The third column shows the effects of the project delays and cost overruns in the overall
net benefits at completion without considering the benefits from higher land prices along
the canal. This stills considers the expected benefits from avoiding septic tank
constructions in the future. The NPV under these hypothesis is VND 100 billion lower
with respect to the original estimated NPV and the ERR would be 1.8 points less.

The fourth column includes the effect of the increase of land value along the canal due to
the project, which is significant. The introduction of this factor changes the overall result
of the analysis, showing a positive NPV and increase in the ERR. Here the benefits from
avoiding septic tank construction were not considered for the reasons explained before. It
is important to note that if the city allows for direct connection to the new combined
system avoiding the construction of new septic tanks in future constructions during the
life of the project, additional benefits could be added.

Last, the negative environmental externalities created by the discharge of raw sewerage
in the Saigon river should also be taken into consideration in a more detailed analysis.

Table 2. Net Present Value and ERR of the investment at Appraisal and Completion

                                                  At            ICR       ICR with land
                                                  appraisal     without   value effect
                                        At
                                                  with 20%      land      and no
                                     appraisal
                                                  increase in   value     benefits from
                                                  CAPEX         effect    septic tanks

 Costs                               (1,233.8)     (1,465.5)    (847.7)        (847.7)
   Capital                           (1,158.6)     (1,390.3)    (813.7)        (813.7)
   O&M                                  (75.2)        (75.2)     (34.0)         (34.0)
 Benefits                                982.4         982.4      496.9          928.3
   Flood Damage Avoided                  384.0         384.0      181.8          181.8
   Savings in Flood Protection           292.3         292.3      153.2          153.2
   Time Savings                          115.4         115.4       65.1           65.1
   Savings in Septage installation       129.5         129.5       65.6            0.0
   Savings in Septic servicing            61.2          61.2       31.1            0.0
   Health Savings                          0.0           0.0          0              0
   Land Appreciation Along the
 Canal                                     0.0           0.0          0          528.1
 Net Benefits                          (251.4)       (483.1)    (350.8)           80.6
 ERR                                     9.9%          8.5%       8.1%          13.2%


                                             36
Financial Analysis

The assumptions and policy principles ruling the sector identified at appraisal were: a)
that the urban economy in Ho Chi Minh City could directly support a higher proportion
of infrastructure investments and b) that it is more efficient and equitable to recover the
costs of wastewater services through user charges than via general taxation. Consistent
with these principles, this project was implemented with an IDA credit that was on-lent to
the city and user charges were applied to recover part of the cost of operating the
sewerage and drainage network.

Wastewater tariffs were introduced for first time in 2001 and the policy at that time
aimed to recover by the year 2006: i) operations, maintenance and capital depreciation of
wastewater assets under this project and the similar JBIC project in THBN basin; and ii)
operation and maintenance of the combined sewerage system plus depreciation of
associated maintenance equipment.

The wastewater fee is collected by the water company and is established at 10% of the
amount billed. SAWACO retains around 3-4% of the generated revenue to cover
administration costs and the rest is transferred to the Department of Finance which is
responsible for allocating SCFC’s annual budget and providing SCFC with a regular
revenue stream to cover its operational costs.

Although decree 88/2007 still requires full cost recovery for the sector, the targets on cost
recovery initially set for this project were acknowledged to be too ambitious during
project restructuring and new targets were set at that time: VND 450 / m3 by the year
2009 which was supposed to cover a significant part of the O&M costs and on track to
achieving operational cost recovery in subsequent years. The financial covenant of the
project was relaxes to ensure at least that the entire revenue coming from the wastewater
tariff was fully transferred to SCFC.

However, by 2009 the wastewater fee was lower than the target and cost recovery rate
through user fees today is still low. The following table summarizes the financial
situation of SCFC:

Table 3. Costs and revenues in the Wastewater Sector. Source: SCFC, 2012.

VND billions / Year                        2002 2003     2004    2005 2006 2007      2008   2009 2010 2011     2012
Total Budget for O&M *                      63   62       65      74   102 201        244    288 386 427       N/A
Total Expenditure (VND billion, including
                                          59.2    58.7   61.5    70     96.6   190   230    272   353   413    N/A
O&M, Depreciation, Interest and Taxes )
Revenue (VND billion)                      55.5   52.4   59.4    65.9   75     93    140    169   241   260    N/A
Percentage of Cost Recovery with
                                           88%    84%    91%     89%    73%    46%   57%    59%   62%   61%    N/A
respect to O&M budget
Domestic wastewater tariff up to 4m3 per
                                           264    264    264     250    250    250   300    350   400   440    480
person per month (VND/m3)
Commercial wastewater tariff (VND /m3)     N/A    264    264     400    400    400   700    800   900   1350   1520
Institutions wastewater tariff (VND/m3)    N/A    264    264     400    400    400   600    700   800    810    930
Source: SCFC


                                                                37
* SCFC provided budget for years 2010 and 2011. The O&M budget for previous years has been estimated using the
proportion between O&M budget and Total costs for the years 2010 and 2011. Actual O&M needs have not been
provided by the PMU and could be higher than budget amount.

Data on costs provided by SCFC do not reflect real O&M needs, but only the actual
expenditure. Data on real O&M budget for years 2010 and 2011 indicate that actual
allocation for O&M is lower than the real needs. This fact has been constantly pointed
out by the Bank during supervision missions.

Figure 1: Cost recovery in the wastewater sector. (Source: SCFC, 2012)




The table and graph show a constant increase in SCFC costs from the year 2002 and the
increasing difficulty to recover costs through revenues from user fees.

The completion of the project and other improvements in the sewerage network in the
city will imply a considerable increase in SCFC running costs in 2013. Thus, the
operation of the pumping station (VND 27 additional billion in 2013), new sewers (89
additional billion in 2013, of which 14 are for the in the NLTN basin) are the most
significant examples. SCFC will also assume in 2013 the operation of the sluice gates and
pumping station at the mouth of the NLTN canal, which will also contribute to increase
the budget.

Figure 2 below, shows a prediction made on future costs and revenues considering the
new costs indicated before and future ones if phase II (new WWTP and possible
extension of sewerage in District 2) is completed in the year 2017.




                                                      38
                   Figure 2: O&M Costs and Revenues from Tariffs in the Sector




                   Tariffs

                   The wastewater tariff has been evolving since its establishment in 2001. By definition,
                   revenue from the wastewater fee is subject to the increase in the water tariff, which is
                   revised and approved every year by the People’s Committee. Increases in the wastewater
                   tariff itself are reviewed less frequently. Table 4 below shows the evolution of the water
                   tariff, tariff revenue and the operation costs of the water supply company:


                   Table 4. Tariffs, Costs and Revenues. SAWACO.

   Period starting from         3/2000                                  7/2004                                           01/2009    3/2010    01/2011     01/2012
   Water tariff                 2000      2001      2002      2003      2004      2005      2006      2007      2008      2009       2010      2011        2012
Domestic
           Within the quota        1700     1700      1700      1700       2700     2700      2700      2700      2700      2740       4000       4400       4800
  > 4m3 to 6m3/capita/month        2500     2500      2500      2500       5400     5400      5400      5400      5400      5440       7500       8300       9200
      3 -      3
 > 6m       10m /capita/month      3200     3200      3200      3200       8000     8000      8000      8000      8000      8040      10000      10500      11000
         > 10m3/capita/month       4000     4000      4000      4000
         Institutions
             Within the quota      2200     2200      2200      2200
                                                                           6000     6000      6000      6000      6000      6040       7100       8100       9300
               Over the quota      3000     3000      3000      3000
Production                         4000     4000      4000      4000       4500     4500      4500      4500      4500      4540       6700       7400       8200
Services                           6500     6500      6500      6500       8000     8000      8000      8000      8000      8000      12000      13500      15200
     Operation Costs (million
                       VND)                                             340 847   397 845   425 506   486 783   939 051 1 154 294             1 208 251
      Revenues from Tariffs
              (million VND)     448 684   501 206   520 170   561 732   742 395   960 199 1 015 285 1 110 223 1 203 915 1 301 683 1 897 910 2 313 593




                   Under this arrangement the challenge is for the city to define tariff levels that suits both
                   the water supply and sewerage sectors. According to the current numbers it seems that
                   SCFC is in more urgent need to increase tariff levels. The current tariffs both in the water
                   and wastewater sectors are way below the projections made in the year 2000, which were



                                                                                    39
projecting a water tariff in 2010 of VND 6200 in the lower block and a wastewater tariff
of VND 1300, more than 5 times the actual tariff in that year.

Affordability

An analysis on affordability is useful to understand the margin to increase tariffs in the
next years. Using income per capita data from the last GSO survey in 2010, a low income
4 member household paid about 1.6 % of its income the water bill 13. Assuming that 5%
would be a reasonable threshold, it means there is, in theory, margin to increase the tariff
level if there is also willingness to pay for sanitation services.




13
   4 member household with two adults making VND 1.54 million on average and each consuming 3 m3
per capita per month.




                                               40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
Names                      Title                              Unit
                                                                       Specialty
Lending
Alan Coulthart             Lead Municipal Engineer            EASUR TTL
Alex Bakalian              Senior Water Supply Specialist     LCSWS Peer Reviewer
Alex McPhail               Senior Economist                   FFPSI Peer Reviewer
Cliff Garstang                                                      Lawyer
Hong Vu                    Social Specialist                        Social Specialist
Lanfranco      Blanchetti-
                           Social Specialist                          Social Specialist
Revelli
Ming Zhang                 Economist                       EASUR Economist
                                                                 Sanitation
Luiz Claudio Tavares      Sr Water & Sanitation Specialist EASUR
                                                                 Engineer
Stuart Whitehead                                                    Financial Analyst
Nguyen Cong Thanh         Program Officer                     EASUR Operations
Cuong Duc Dang            Operations Officer                  EASUR Operations
Dennis Long               Environment Specialist                    Environment
Patchamuthu Illangovan    Environment Specialist                    Environment
Nipa Siribuddhamas        Financial Specialist                      Finance
                          Sr    Financial      Management
Behdad Nowroozi                                           EAPCO Finance
                          Specialist
                          Sr    Financial      Management
Omowunmi Ladipo                                           LOAAS Finance
                          Specialist


Supervision/ICR
Dean Cira                 Lead Urban Specialsit          EASVS Team Leader
Cuong Duc Dang            Sr Urban Specialist            EASVS Operations
                                                               Urban
Arish Adi Dastur          Urban Specialist               EASIN
                                                               Development
                                                               Urban
Yoonhee Kim               Urban Economist                LCSUW
                                                               Development
William D. Kingdom        Lead Water and Sanitation Spec SASDU Water & Sanitation
                                                               Urban
Hung Duy Le               Sr Urban Spec.                 EASVS
                                                               Development
                          Sr    Financial        Management
Hung Viet Le                                                  EAPCO Finance
                          Specialist



                                            41
Laurent Msellati          Manager                             LCSSD Operations
                                                                     Social
Hoa Thi Mong Pham         Sr Social Development Specialist EASVS
                                                                     Development
                                                                     Social
Tuan Anh Le               Social Specialist
                                                                     Development
                          Sr    Financial        Management
Cung Van Pham                                                 EAPFM Finance
                          Specialist
Quynh Xuan Thi Phan       Financial Officer                   GEF    Finance
Tran Thi Thanh Phuong     Sr Environmental Specialist         EASVS Environment
Kien Trung Tran           Sr Procurement Specialist           EAPPR Procurement
Mai Thi Phuong Tran       Financial Management Specialist EAPFM Finance
Hien Minh Vu              Program Assistant                   EACVF Administrative
                                                              EASSO
Hong Vu                   Sr Operations Officer                     Operations
                                                              - HIS
Victor Vazquez Alvarez    Young Professional                  EASIN ICR Team Leader
Linh X. Le                Research Analyst                    EASVS Economist


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                               USD Thousands
Stage of Project Cycle
                                     No. of staff weeks     (including travel and
                                                               consultant costs)
Lending
  FY97                                                                   1.78
  FY98                                                                  27.26
  FY99                                                                  47.54
  FY00                                         70                      197.84
  FY01                                         64                      147.38
  FY02                                                                   0.00
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
  FY08                                                                   0.00

                          Total:              134                      421.80
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                                                   0.00


                                            42
FY98                     0.44
FY99                     0.40
FY00                     0.00
FY01               8     8.99
FY02              25    55.65
FY03              40    99.97
FY04              27    54.22
FY05              17    42.05
FY06              15    42.38
FY07              25    64.37
FY08              31    98.06

       Total:    188   466.53




                43
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

Districts and Ward authorities, responsible for the extension and upgrade of tertiary
sewers and ensuring household connections to the network, were consulted on the total
number of households that are still not connected today. Lists of all households in the
basin by district and ward and its status with respect to connectivity were reviewed by
consultants hired by the project. Results show that only 570 households out of 266,000
remain today unconnected. This reflects a connectivity ratio of almost 100%.




                                          44
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

 A workshop was conducted in HCMC with representatives from main beneficiaries
 groups. In total, 50 people participated in the workshop.

 Consolidated comments were received from the 13 training workshops carried out in
 local communities about protecting the environment of the canal. The presentation
 presented public suggestions on areas such as (1) developing rules and regulations; (2)
 strengthening reinforcement mechanism; (3) scaling up public education campaigns; as
 well as (4) some technical solutions to continue improving the environment around the
 canal.

 The main part of the workshop was used for the community representatives to share
 additional comments over different areas:

 Benefits of the canal:

    •    Numerous comments focused on the quality of life improvements, such as (i)
        reduced concerns for traffic accidents since they can walk safely on the large
        sidewalk; (ii) new safe space for hanging out, exercises, etc.; (iii) less time spent
        on anti-flood measures; and (iv) an overall ease being around the canal, as
        opposed to the avoidance before. One woman felt very proud as she witnessed
        youngsters stopping to take pictures with the nice sight around the canal.

    •   For former residents on the bank of the canal from the early 1980's to the 1990's,
        it was a life-changing experience from their unstable lifestyle before. With the
        resettlement well done, these households were given a new apartment and money
        to stabilize, settle, and develop their lives. In Vietnamese, the adage "settled
        housing brings professional prosperity" is well appreciated by these residents.

Suggestions/Actions for the next steps:

    •   Build public toilets and trash cans, with frequent collection by the city's Urban
        Environmental Sanitation Company.
    •   Address the remaining issues of garbage cleaning for the drains and the canal,
        including the installation of additional screens.
    •   Scale up the public education campaigns to stress the importance of environment
        protection.
    •   Establish clear regulation on environmental protection and strengthen
        enforcement mechanism, especially regarding local businesses.
    •   Coordinate and distribute a uniform guidance across districts on best practices.




                                             45
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower has prepared a Project Completion Report submitted to the Bank on
October 31 2012. The following is a summary of more relevant sections and conclusions:

Strategic Context

The Project aimed to make a significant contribution to the Bank’s overarching goal of
alleviating poverty by improving the living conditions of the urban poor in HCMC, who
suffer disproportionately from the consequences of flooding and pollution. It will also
address the CAS goal of Raising Productivity through Infrastructure by reducing the cost
of doing business and by enabling the city to create a more favorable impression on
potential investors through environmental improvements. Decentralization will also be
supported by providing direct support to HCMC municipal government and by
strengthening its institutional capacity.

Key issues related to Project Design

Of significant relevance to the design is the geotechnical condition in the Project area,
which is indeed variable. This is clearly indicated in the design and is shown on the
borehole logs provided to the Contractors. Where geotechnical condition represents a
major factor in construction activities (e.g., construction of interceptor), the BOQ
allocates the item “Soil Boring and Testing? for Contractor to offer the price in his Bid
Documents. Variable geotechnical condition is already known at the bidding time, and
further investigations do not reveal significant differences. A comparison of geotechnical
data obtained by the design consultant and by the Contractor indicates that there is no
substantial difference.

Key issues related to Construction

The shafts should preferably have been hydraulically jacked into the ground. Instead, the
Contractor chose a cheaper method of allowing the shafts to sink by gravity. This is
cheaper but less predictable and takes longer. The quality of the interceptor is acceptable
and conforms to the Technical Specifications. The alignment accuracy of the pipe jacking
is remarkable. The pipe manufacturing is of a very high quality.

Some contractors (Packages 7 and 10) quoted very low prices for certain components and
this resulted in an overall low bid price that helped them win the contract. Obviously the
Contractor would suffer from financial loss for the underpriced component, so he found
excuses not to undertake his work. The Employer had to assign another party to
undertake the refused work – at a price much higher than the original bid price. As an
illustration, the bid price for soil improvement work of Package 10 was so badly
underpriced; it was not even enough to buy cement alone.

A number of contractors often stated that they had financial constraints. Some contractors
appeared to focus all their attention on the one activity where they could recover



                                            46
reasonable costs. There was a risk that activities in which there was little cost recovery
might become neglected. In fact, the contractors proposed, and was accepted, that some
components be removed from the original scope of work. This created a bad precedent in
that any contractor could propose to remove components that did not yield profits to
them.

Similarly, the poor attention to compliance to health, safety, environmental and traffic
requirements (largely due to contractors’ reluctance to spend money) resulted in various
orders for work suspension, which was a totally unacceptable situation.

There was also a concern that the “sudden sinking? was due to uncontrolled excavation
and over excavation. The technique of sinking by excavation is too uncontrolled and
imprecise for the upper soft layers, this method should only be used once the soft layer
has been penetrated and the shaft is vertical, after 10m. It may also be found necessary to
jack once the shaft reaches harder layers at depth. In fact, the three events of TBM
sinking could have been avoided if the respective Contractors had taken more care in
implementation and had used better equipment.

Significant delays in implementation were also due to the fact that ICB procurement was
still relatively new to Vietnam and approvals remained highly centralized. There were
significant delays due to various factors. However, as the Project progressed, HCMC
agencies have improved their procedures to facilitate implementation.

Other contract management issues: During the bidding and contract negotiation, it
requires adding some specific conditions of the contract (COPA) for dealing related
issues i.e. imposing penalties for sectional non-performance/non-compliance or
safeguards non-compliance; or opening a separate account for respective contract. The
contract management during the implementation should be adequately strengthened for
mobilization of necessary resources and preventing multiple subcontracting.

Risk Assessment

The SCFC will continue contracting UDC to operate and maintain the system properly.
HCMC is committed to increasing wastewater charges to a level sufficient for cost
recovery.

Even though HCMC leadership is committed to keep the canal clean and has given
instructions to concerned Districts to take needed actions, indiscriminate dumping of
garbage into NLTN Canal represents a challenge.

Construction risks were confirmed but not due to unforeseen problems as suspected
during preparation: although geotechnical conditions in HCMC are complex, there are
technologies and equipment to overcome these conditions. The Interceptor Contractor did
not adequately control his operations and used unsophisticated equipment for pipe
jacking, resulting in failures and delays. As the Contractor tried to cut costs to fulfill prior
low bid price, he opted to adopt poor construction method.



                                              47
Environmental risks during construction were mitigated. Water quality monitoring results
indicated that in sections of the NLTN Canal where dredged materials were transferred or
transported, water quality was practically the same as “before? situation.

There are no discernible risks related to the sustainability of the Project outcomes in the
future. The capacity is in place to properly operate and maintain the system properly.
Achievement of Objectives

   -   The reduction of pollution in the Nhieu Loc–Thi Nghe Canal, and throughout the
       basin in general, has been achieved. The Project has designed a post-construction
       monitoring program to determine the degree of this improvement.

   -   Food reduction throughout the Nhieu Loc–Thi Nghe Basin has been achieved.

   -   The development of UDC into a well-managed and efficient wastewater utility
       has been procedurally set-up, and UDC has been contracted to operate and
       maintain the Project’s Pumping Station starting July 2010.

As a result, the physical objective of creating sustainable improvements to the public
health and well-being of around 1.2 million residents within the NLTN Basin,
particularly the poor, has been achieved. The goal of achieving increased economic
development in the commercial center of the city is not immediately apparent. However,
the unpleasant environment once caused by the septic canal and the flooded streets within
the basin has now been replaced with a pleasant waterway and flood-free streets which
are more conducive to development. The NLTN Basin is now a place to live healthily and
work effectively, not one to avoid.

Assessment of Institutional Strengthening

Capacity building was carried out in financial management, business plan formulation,
human resource development, management information system (MIS) development, skill
development in operation and maintenance, and in environmental management. A
professional team has been formed through training programs in drainage and sewerage
system management, financial management, management information system, system
operation, and consultancy in urban drainage, wastewater collection and treatment, etc.

The city was committed to cost recovery after the year 2004. HCMC authorities increased
the tariffs at different periods. During 2004-2009, Ho Chi Minh City collected VND 536
billion from household wastewater fees but only VND 36 billion from industrial
wastewater fees. The wastewater tariffs have benefited Ho Chi Minh City's finances and
provide a more reliable means to finance an adequate level of drainage maintenance.

Bank Performance




                                            48
The Bank provided valuable guidance to the PMU in relatively new areas of project
management such as site clearance and resettlement, dispute resolution, and
environmental auditing. The Bank’s guidelines in procurement, disbursement, contract
management, etc. had to be strictly complied, which caused delays up to the issuance of
Decree No. 16/2005/N?-CP of the Government (2/7/2005) on the management of work
construction investment projects. It took considerable time to resolve unexpected
situations in the tendering process so that the solutions satisfied both Bank’s guidelines
and Vietnam’s regulations. This achievement was not easy.

Also, too many tendering works required both approvals from the Vietnamese side and
no-objection from the Bank. This made tendering process extremely time-consuming and
consequently led to cost escalation. For more effective coordination between the
Borrower and the Lender, it is necessary that the Bank pays more attention to Borrower’s
ideas, rather than imposing its own procedures. On the other hand, Vietnam should
develop regulations more compatible with the international community, as “global
integration? – or “hội nhập? – has been repeatedly encouraged by the Government of
Vietnam.

Government and PMU performance

Project implementation is a process of complex coordination among parties. In reality,
there is no common norm for such coordination when there are discrepancies between
Borrower’s regulations and Lender’s practices.

HCMC PC: During the first stage, the role was simply to submit technical documents for
appraisal by central ministries before the latter presented those documents for Prime
Minister’s approval. Therefore, HCMC PC’s interest during the first stage was limited.
With decentralization policy from the central Government, HCMC PC had a right to
delegate to the Department of Transport (as the Project Owner) authority to approve
important matters in the Project such as the amended bidding plan, the amended budget,
tender documents and bid evaluation results. Through this delegation, project
implementation was accelerated, fulfilling the Bank’s requirements for Credit Agreement
extension.

PMU: During the beginning stage, PMU personnel lack experience related to ODA
projects so they could not address effectively all unexpected situations. Therefore the
tendering for Wastewater packages was delayed. Later on, the PMU learned their lessons
and improved its performance in tendering for Drainage packages.

During the process of project implementation the PMU’s capacity in tendering, contract
management, financial management, site clearance and compensation was gradually
strengthened.

Lessons Learned




                                           49
For complex works like this, more attention should be given to preparing more detailed
Technical Specifications and Pre-Qualification criteria in the bidding documents.

There should be “floor prices? for some critical components which costs are well known,
e.g., water main relocation. In this Project, the bid price for water main relocation was
unrealistically low: 17.7% of the approved estimated cost whereas the bid prices of two
other bidders were comparable to the estimated cost.

Contractors’ progress should be more tightly controlled by defining detailed benchmarks
that the Contractors must achieve, or else they will be penalized. Contractors could be
required to purchase adequate insurance in order to cover damages caused to the third
parties, e.g., house cracking due to Contractors’ activities.

This was the first massive urban upgrading project in HCMC, in dense traffic streets.
Difficulties and constraints, as well as costs and time associated with them, were
somewhat underestimated.

It was the first major ODA project in HCMC, thus several issues have arisen regarding
the discrepancies between Vietnam’s regulations and funding agency’s requirements. In
spite of various difficulties that caused delays and cost overruns, overall the Project has
remarkably achieved its objectives. Above all, construction works were maintained at
high quality standards.

The Project represents a major undertaking by Ho Chi Minh City and the World Bank to
bring immediate benefits in environmental improvements and urban upgrading, and long
term benefits in health improvement and economic productivity. The NL-TN Canal, with
its clear water and green space along its banks, will provide an attractive urban ecological
setting for City residents to relax and enjoy modern city life. Benefits in spin-off
development, like office buildings, catering industry, retails and services (including
tourism) are expected – and in fact they are already happening.

Above all, this comprehensive sewerage/drainage system using proven technology may
have been designed and built with foreign expertise at the start but later with substantial
involvement of domestic companies and city institutions, who are now better equipped to
handle similar works on their own in the future. The Project is sustainable as HCMC
citizens are paying reasonable fees for system maintenance, operation, and depreciation
for reinvestment in the future.




                                            50
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents

   1. Institutional Framework of the Sewerage and Drainage Sector in HCMC




                                                        51
     Institutional Strengthening activities in component 3 were initially planned according to
     the existing institutional framework in 2001, where UDC was both the infrastructure
     owner and service provider. This structure was later modified, in part also with the
     support of the institutional strengthening activities of the project. The People’s
     Committee issued a formal decision on September 8, 2006 making the Urban Transport
     Management Department (UTMD), and its Drainage and Wastewater Division
     Department (DWD) responsible for managing and financing the city's drainage and
     wastewater facilities.

     Later in 2009, the Steering Center for Flood Control (SCFC) was established as the new
     institution responsible for the provision of sewerage and drainage services, reporting
     directly to the PC. The responsibilities from DWD were then transferred to SCFC and the
     activities of institutional strengthening were redirected to this new institution and UDC
     was converted into a SOE.




        2. Environmental Monitoring and Water Quality Data

     For Ho Chi Minh City Environmental Sanitation Project (NL-TN Basin), Environmental
     monitoring program is executed in accordance with environmental control request
     originated in environmental impact assessment process of NL-TN project as shown in
     Table 1, including:
         • Monitoring of Sai Gon River surface water quality (twice a month);
         • Monitoring of NL-TN canal surface water quality (twice a month);
         • Monitoring of Rach La canal surface water quality(once a month);
         • Monitoring of Rach Chiec canal surface water quality (once a month);
         • Monitoring performance of pumping station (noise);
         • Monitoring soil quality at sludge disposal site (2 times).

    Table 1: Environmental Monitoring Implementation Plan
Sampling position     Parameters     Sampling time Frequency                Implementation Data
                                                                            status         collection
                                                                                           period
1. Outfall construction water quality
Sai Gon River: 03 SS, COD, pH, Before, during Twice at high                 Before          3/2012
locations near the outfall DO,     BOD, and after the and low tide.         construction
construction and 01 Ammonia,            construction                        process
location has highest Fecal                                                  In construction 5/2012
concentration          of Coliforms                                         process
pollution                                                                   After           6/2012
                                                                            construction
                                                                            process
2. Water quality during dredging and disposal of materials



                                                53
- Estuary of NL-TN           SS, COD, pH, Before, during            Twice a month In construction   From 07/2009
canal.                       DO, BOD          and after the                         process         to now
- Rach La - An Thoi                           construction          Once a month
Dong site.                   - Hg, As, Cd, During         and       02       times, Finished        5/2011    and
- Rach Chieu - Da Phuoc      Pb, Total Cr     after        the      repeated    for                 9/2012
site                         - Oil, pesticide construction          parameter
                                                                    exceeding
                                                                    allowable
                                                                    limits
3. Soil quality (*)
Rach Chieu - Da Phuoc - Hg, As, Cd, After closing 01 time                            Finished       9/ 2012
site                      Pb, Total Cr the  disposal
                          - Pesticide  site
4. Water quality at startup
NL-TN canal : 6              Flow,        SS,   Every     hour, Four          times/a Not yet       After
locations                    COD,        pH,    four full tidal year                                commissionin
Pump station: Influent       BOD,        DO,    cycles                                              g
chamber                      Ammonia,                                                               (100% sewer
Sai Gon river: 03            Fecal coliform     - Pre-startup: 2                                    hookup)
locations near the outfall                      full tidal cycles
construction     &     01                       before
location has highest                            commissioning
concentration          of                       24h
pollution                                       -     Operation:
                                                Every hour, 4
                                                full tidal cycles
                                                (48h)
5. Noise
Pump station : 1m and        Wind           5 minutes               2 times          Finished       Prior to end
6m from equipment            direction,                                                             of
Pump station: 1m from        speed,         1 hour                                                  commissionin
nearest noise sensitive      humidity,                                                              g
receiver.                    temperature,
                             and noise (dB)

6. Flooding reduction
NL-TN canal: 6 locations Flow,       Tide Every hour, 2 Twice/year                   Completed once After
                         level, survey days          with                            time           commissionin
                         cross section    storm day.                                                g



     (*) To be measured at the end of disposal operation

     The results of the monitoring are compared with Vietnam standards:
        ? The surface water quality assessment standard: QCVN 08: 2008/BTNMT;


                                                      54
                                                                     5
                                                                         6
                                                                             7
                                                                                 8
                                                                                     9




                             0
                                 1
                                     2
                                         3
                                                                                              site .
                    Bsl(2)                                 Bsl (1)
                   1/10(1)                                 Bsl (2)




                                             DO
                                                                                         pH
                   1/10(2)                                7/09(1)
                   3/10(1)                                7/09(2)
                   3/10(2)                                8/09(1)
                                                          8/09(2)
                                                          9/09(1)
                                                          9/09(2)




     NM1
                                                         10/09(1)
                                                         10/09(2)
                                                         11/09(1)
                                                         11/09(2)
                                                         12/09(1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26:2010/BTNMT;
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            40:2011/BTNMT;




                                                         12/09(2)
                                                          1/10(1)
                                                          1/10(2)




     NM2
                                                  NM1
                                                          3/10(1)
                                                          3/10(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SURFACE WATER QUALITY

                                                                                                                                                                                  Trends of NL-TN water quality
                      Bsl1                                   Bsl1
                      Bsl2                                   Bsl2
                   1/11(1)                                1/11(1)
                   1/11(2)                                1/11(2)




                                                  NM2
                   2/11(1)




     NM3
                                                          2/11(1)
                   2/11(2)                                2/11(2)
                   3/11(1)                                3/11(1)
                   3/11(2)                                3/11(2)




55
                   4/11(1)                                4/11(1)
                   4/11(2)                                4/11(2)
                   5/11(1)                                5/11(1)
                   5/11(2)                                5/11(2)




                                                  NM3
                   6/11(1)                                6/11(1)
                   6/11(2)                                6/11(2)
                   7/11(1)                                7/11(1)
                   7/11(2)                                7/11(2)
                   8/11(1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            QCVN 03:2008/BTNMT, QCVN 15:2008/BTNMT




                                                          8/11(1)
                   8/11(2)                                8/11(2)




     QCVN 08_B2
                   9/11(1)                                9/11(1)
                   9/11(2)                                9/11(2)
                  10/11(1)                               10/11(1)
                  10/11(2)                               10/11(2)
                  11/11(1)                               11/11(1)
                  11/11(2)                               11/11(2)
                  12/11(1)                               12/11(1)
                  12/11(2)                               12/11(2)
                   3/12(1)                                3/12(1)
                   3/12(2)                                3/12(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            06:2009/BTNMT, QCVN 19:2009/BTNMT, QCVN 20:2009/BTNMT,




                   4/12(1)                                4/12(1)
                   4/12(2)                                4/12(2)
                   5/12(1)                                5/12(1)
                   5/12(2)                                5/12(2)
                   6/12(1)                                6/12(1)
                   6/12(2)                                6/12(2)
                   7/12(1)                                7/12(1)
                   7/12(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ? The air quality assessment standard: QCVN 05:2009/BTNMT, QCVN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ? The wastewater quality assessment standard: QCVN 14:2008/BTNMT, QCVN




                                                                                              Sampling locations: NM1: is at 0.2m depth at the estuary of NL-TN, NM2 is at 0.2m
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ? The soil quality assessment standard: TCVN 5297:1995, TCVN 5960:1995,



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ? The noise assessment at residential compound and public standard: QCVN




                                                          7/12(2)
                                                                                              depth and 100m from S-NLTN; and NM3: is at 0.2m depth and 100 m from the dredging




                   9/12(1)                                9/12(1)
                   9/12(2)                                9/12(2)
                  11/12(1)                               11/12(1)
                  11/12(2)




       TIME
                                                         11/12(2)
                                                  TIME
                                                                                                                        0
                                                                                                                            20
                                                                                                                                 40
                                                                                                                                      60
                                                                                                                                           80
                                                                                                                                                                                            120




                                                                                                                                                                              0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              120




                                                                                                                                                                                  40
                                                                                                                                                                                       80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         80
                                                                                                              Bsl (1)
                                                                                                              Bsl (2)                                               Bsl (1)                                           Bsl (1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                TSS




                                                                                                                                                                    Bsl (2)                                           Bsl (2)




                                                                                                                                                                                                  COD




                                                                                                                                                BOD
                                                                                                             3/10(1)
                                                                                                             3/10(2)                                                7/09(1)                                           7/09(1)
                                                                                                                                                                    7/09(2)                                           7/09(2)
                                                                                                                                                                    8/09(1)                                           8/09(1)
                                                                                                                                                                    8/09(2)                                           8/09(2)
                                                                                                                                                                    9/09(1)                                           9/09(1)




                                                                                                                                                                                                        NM1




                                                                                                                                                      NM1
                                                                                                                                                                    9/09(2)                                           9/09(2)




                                                                                               NM1
                                                                                                                                                                   10/09(1)                                          10/09(1)
                                                                                                                                                                   10/09(2)                                          10/09(2)
                                                                                                                                                                   11/09(1)                                          11/09(1)
                                                                                                                                                                   11/09(2)                                          11/09(2)
                                                                                                                                                                   12/09(1)                                          12/09(1)
                                                                                                                                                                   12/09(2)                                          12/09(2)
                                                                                                                                                                    1/10(1)                                           1/10(1)


                                                                                                                                                                                                        NM2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1/10(2)




                                                                                                                                                      NM2
                                                                                                                                                                    1/10(2)




                                                                                               NM2
                                                                                                                                                                    3/10(1)                                           3/10(1)
                                                                                                                                                                    3/10(2)                                           3/10(2)
                                                                                                                Bsl1                                                   Bsl1                                              Bsl1
                                                                                                                Bsl2                                                   Bsl2                                              Bsl2
                                                                                                             1/11(1)                                                1/11(1)                                           1/11(1)
                                                                                                             1/11(2)                                                1/11(2)                                           1/11(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NM3


                                                                                                             2/11(1)                                                2/11(1)                                           2/11(1)




                                                                                                                                                      NM3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2/11(2)




                                                                                               NM3
                                                                                                             2/11(2)                                                2/11(2)
                                                                                                             3/11(1)                                                3/11(1)                                           3/11(1)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3/11(2)




56
                                                                                                             3/11(2)                                                3/11(2)
                                                                                                             4/11(1)                                                4/11(1)                                           4/11(1)
                                                                                                             4/11(2)                                                4/11(2)                                           4/11(2)
                                                                                                             5/11(1)                                                5/11(1)                                           5/11(1)
                                                                                                             5/11(2)                                                5/11(2)                                           5/11(2)
                                                                                                                                                                    6/11(1)                                           6/11(1)
                                                                                                             6/11(1)                                                                                                  6/11(2)
                                                                                                             6/11(2)                                                6/11(2)                                           7/11(1)
                                                                                                             7/11(1)                                                7/11(1)                                           7/11(2)
                                                                                                             7/11(2)                                                7/11(2)                                           8/11(1)
                                                                                                             8/11(1)                                                8/11(1)                                           8/11(2)
                                                                                                             8/11(2)                                                8/11(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                        QCVN 08_B2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9/11(1)




                                                                                                                                                      QCVN 08_B2
                                                                                                             9/11(1)                                                9/11(1)                                           9/11(2)




                                                                                               QCVN 08_B2
                                                                                                             9/11(2)                                                9/11(2)                                          10/11(1)
                                                                                                            10/11(1)                                               10/11(1)                                          10/11(2)
                                                                                                            10/11(2)                                               10/11(2)                                          11/11(1)
                                                                                                            11/11(1)                                               11/11(1)                                          11/11(2)
                                                                                                            11/11(2)                                               11/11(2)                                          12/11(1)
                                                                                                                                                                   12/11(1)                                          12/11(2)
                                                                                                            12/11(1)                                               12/11(2)
                                                                                                            12/11(2)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      3/12(1)
                                                                                                                                                                    3/12(1)                                           3/12(2)
                                                                                                             3/12(1)                                                3/12(2)                                           4/12(1)
                                                                                                             3/12(2)                                                4/12(1)                                           4/12(2)
                                                                                                             4/12(1)                                                4/12(2)                                           5/12(1)
                                                                                                             4/12(2)                                                5/12(1)                                           5/12(2)
                                                                                                             5/12(1)                                                5/12(2)                                           6/12(1)
                                                                                                             5/12(2)                                                6/12(1)                                           6/12(2)
                                                                                                             6/12(1)                                                6/12(2)                                           7/12(1)
                                                                                                             6/12(2)                                                7/12(1)                                           7/12(2)
                                                                                                             7/12(1)                                                7/12(2)




     The results show that baseline water in NL-TN is often inferior to QCVN 08: 2008 class
     B2. In general, dredging operation cause minor local impacts on water quality, however,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9/12(1)
                                                                                                             7/12(2)                                                9/12(1)                                           9/12(2)
                                                                                                             9/12(1)                                                9/12(2)                                          11/12(1)
                                                                                                             9/12(2)                                               11/12(1)                                          11/12(2)
                                                                                                            11/12(1)                                               11/12(2)
                                                                                                                                                       TIME
                                                                                                                                                                                                          TIME




                                                                                                TIME
                                                                                                            11/12(2)
after dredging water quality has been likely improved indicated by increase of DO and
decrease of BOD and COD. Water quality has improved over time, but will not reach the
target levels until the canal has been sufficiently flushed.

Map of the sampling locations:




                                         57
  Annex 9. Photographs




             Before Improvement                                   Before Improvement




Nhieu Loc–Thi Nghe Canal: During Construction ... and ... After improvement




Nhieu Loc–Thi Nghe Canal: During Construction ... and ... After improvement



                                                58
Package 7: Shaft construction, with 2 softeyes        Package 7: Interceptor jacking




 Package 8: Pumping station: Working day...                    ... and night




                                                 59
Package P10: Capbeam rebars and formwork        Package 10: Pile installation from barge
               installation




                                           60
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 31221R



                                                                                                                                                          VIETNAM
                                                                                                                                                                                                        NHIEU LOC-THI NGHE BASIN

                                                                                                                                          HO CHI MINH CITY                                              (PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY)

                                                                                                                                                                                                        COMBINED SEWER IMPROVEMENTS

                                                                                                                                     ENVIRONMENTAL SANITATION                                           DREDGED CANAL


                                                                                                                                              PROJECT                                                   NHIEU LOC-THI NGHE INTERCEPTOR

                                                                                                                                                                                                        WASTEWATER PUMPING STATION

                                                                                                                                          NHIEU LOC-THI NGHE BASIN                                      RIVER CROSSING PIPELINE

                                                                                                                                                                                                        STORM OVERFLOW SITES

                                                                                                                                                                                                        CANAL FLUSHING AND FLOW
                                                                                                                                                                                                        MONITORING LOCATION




                                                                                                                                                TYPICAL COMBINED
                                                                                                                            CANAL FLUSHING &    STORM OVERFLOW
                                                                                                                            FLOW MONITORING
                                                                                                                                LOCATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                   WASTEWATER
                                                                                                                                                                                                    PUMPING
                                                                                                                                                                                                     STATION


                                                                                                                                      NHIEU LOC-THI                NHIEU LOC-THI                                     RIVER CROSSING
                                                                                                                                      NGHE                         NGHE CANAL                                        PIPELINE VIA
This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                                                       INTERCEPTOR                                                                    TUNNEL
The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                            CANAL FLUSHING &
                                                                                                         FLOW MONITORING
                                                                                                             LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Rive
                 100                     105                       110

                                                        CHINA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  igo
 MYANMAR




                                       Hanoi                                                                                                                                                                    Sa
                                                                                                                                                                                          OUTFALL
                           LAO                                                                                                                                                         DIFFUSER PIPE
                                                                     20
                          P.D.R.




                                                                          Tay          Binh
                 THAILAND                                                 Ninh        Duong
15
                                                                     15
                                                                                                  Dong
                                                     VIETNAM                Project                Nai
                                                                             Area                                                                                                  0         500         1000
                                CAMBODIA
                                                                           Long       Ho Chi Minh City
                                                                                                                                                                                            METERS
                                                   See inset                An
                                                   at right                                  T.P. Ho
10               Gulf                                                10
                                               Ho Chi Minh City                             Chi Minh
                   of
                  Thailand                                                    Tien
           100                     105                       110
                                                                             Giang
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    DECEMBER 2012
