lAl
Report No.    PA-90a
This report is for offici use only by the Bank Group and specifically authorized organizations
or persons. It nay not be pubhshed, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The
Bank Group does not accept responibflity for the accuracy or completeness of the report.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
INDIA
June 16, 1971
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00          =     Rupees (Rs) 7.5
Rs 1.00          =     US$0.13
Rs 1 million     =     US$133,333
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 hectare (ha)           =     2.47 acres (ac)
1 kilometer (km)         =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 meter (m)              =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 cubic meter (i3)       =     1.31 cubic yards or 35.31 cu ft
1 million m3 (Mn3)       =     810  acre-feet
1 m3/sec                 =     35.31 cfs
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (LOCAL SYSTEM)
1 thousand million
cubic feet (TMC)      =     28.31 Mm3
ABREVIATIONS
GOI       -   Government of India
GAP       -   Government of Andhra Pradesh
PWD       -   Public Works Department of Andhra Pradesh
LMB       -   Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank
APSAIC    -   Andhra Pradesh State Agro-Industries Corporation
CWPC      -    Central Water and Power Commission
SOI       -   Survey of India
SOD       -   Andhra Pradesh State Groundwater Directorate



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ..........................               i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ....... .................1 
II.   BACKGROUND    ..................................                    2
III.   THE PROJECT AREA .................................                   3
Climate .....................................                 3
Topography, Soils and Land Use ....         ..........        4
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure    .......              4
Agriculture .................................                 5
Transportation ..............................                 5
IV.   THE PROJECT   ...................................                   5
A.   Project Works ...............................                  5
Pochampad Dam ..........................                6
Main Canal .............................                6
Irrigation Distribution System         .........        7
Drainage System ........................                8
Land Levelling .........................                8
Roads   ..................................              8
Land Acquisition and Resettlement    ......             8
B.   Water Demand, Supply and Quality ....          ........       9
Water Demand & Supply ...................               9
Water Ouality and Drainage Requirements.                9
C.   Construction Schedule .....          ..................      10
D.   Cost Estimates .......          .......................      10
E.   Financing Plan ......          ........................      12
Procurement .........                                  13
Disbursement ........       ...................        14
Auditing of Accounts ......        .............       15
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
India in November 1969, comprising Messrs. A. Golan, Y. Abe, C.M. Bolt,
D.J. Parsons (IDA) and Messrs. A. Bergan and R. E. Bloodworth (consulltants),
and has been updated and revised by Messrs. C.M. Bolt and D.M. Haynes on the
basis of information supplied by GOI.



-2-
Page No.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT              .       .            15
A.   Project Coordination andl Management                   15
B.   Supervision   of  Works   ........................     36
C. Operation and Maintenance .17
D.  Agricultural Support Program.                           18
E.  Agricultural Taxes and Recovery of Project
Cost .19
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOMES               20
A. Production.                                              20
B.   Market Prospects ............................          21
C. Prices .22
D.   Farmers' Income .............................          22
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .24
Environment .25
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS .25
ANNEXES
1.   Rainfall
2.   Soils
3.   Agriculture
4.   Description of Project Works
5.   Water Demand, Supply and Quality
6.   Construction Schedule
7.   Cost Estimates
8.   Organization
9.   Grain Storage, Agricultural Processing and Marketing
10.   Agricultural Support Program
11.   Present and Projected Cropping Patterns
12.   Charges for Water and Other Levies
13.   Farm Budgets
14.   Economic Rate of Return
15.   Sensitivity Analysis
16.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
FIGURES
1.   Water Supply and Demand
2.   Reservoir Storage Capacity
MAP



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Agriculture plays a dominant role in the Indian economy, and
irrigation is essential for the achievement of higher productivity as well
as to reduce farmers' dependence on unpredictable rainfall. In its Fourth
Five-Year Plan, 1969-74, the Government of India (GOI) placed emphasis on
the completion of on-going irrigation projects.
ii.       The Pochampad Irrigation Project is a major scheme in the State
of Andhra Pradesh in southern India and has been under construction since
1964. Upon completion, it would irrigate about 400,000 ha along the right
bank of the Godavari river. The first phase of the project would irrigate
100,000 ha and includes construction of most of the dam and 113 km of the
Godavari South main canal; distribution canals and a drainage system; roads;
and levelling and bunding of farm land. It would also provide for the
establishment of an agricultural demonstration and training center and an
experimental station, a study of water charges, a groundwater investigation
and preparation of feasibility studies for further development of the
irrigation potential of the reservoir.
iii.      The estimated total cost of the first phase of the project is Rs
944 million (US$126 million). Of this, about Rs 262 million, or 28% of total
project costs, had been spent by the end of March 1971; of the remaining
Rs 682 million (US$91 million) about Rs 129 million would be provided by
farmers and credit institutions for on-farm development. The proposed
credit of US$39 million would assist in financing about 53% of the balance
of government expenditures of Rs 553 million (US$74 million). The estimated
foreign exchange cost of the project is US$10 million (about 18% of project
construction costs). Of this amount US$3.1 million would be for equipment
and materials to be procured after international competitive bidding and
US$1.7 million would be for imported special equipment and spare parts which
would be unsuitable for competitive bidding. The balance (US$5.2 million
equivalent) comprises the foreign exchange component of locally procured
goods and services. Proceeds of the IDA credit would be channeled to GOI,
which would relend to Andhra Pradesh an amount at least equivalent to the
proceeds of the Credit, which would be allocated specifically to the project.
iv.       With the exception of final designs for Pochampad dam, prepared
by the Central Water and Power Commission (cWPC), design of all civil works
as well as supervision of construction would be the responsibility of the
State's Public Works Department (PWD). These works, as well as remaining
works on the masonry dam, would be constructed by local contractors
generally using labor-intensive methods. However, the State Government
also intends to use heavy machinery whenever it is economically justified.
The procedures used in awarding contracts and executing works by force



- ii -
account are satisfactory and would be followed on the project.  While most
of the civil works would be carried out under cotitracts awarded following
local competitive bidding, some would be carrifd out by department forces.
vI        A senior government official would be appointed as Project
Coordinator for all engineering and agricultural activities on the project.
He would also be a member of a State-level Development Committee, comprising
the Secretaries and heads of the departments and agencies associated with
the project. The Committee would be responsible for the allocation and
coordination of departmental operations and would exercise direction of
policy, planning and management for the project. In addition, improvements
would be made in the agricultural supporting services, particularly in
extension, training, research and demonstration farms.
vi.       At full agricultural development of lands, in the first phase
the annual incremental net value of production would be about Rs 114 million
(US$15.2 million). The economic rate of return would be about 9% if all
past expenditures are included, or 14% if they are disregarded. However, if
reservoir and main canal costs are allocated to the present project and to
future phases in proportion to the respective cropped areas, the rate of
return is 19% (26% excluding sunk costs).
vii.      The project is suitable for an IDA Development Credit of US$39
million equivalent. The borrower would be the Government of India and there
would be a Project Agreement with the State Government of Andhra Pradesh.



INDIA
APPRAISAL OF
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Pochampad Project, in the State of Andhra Pradesh, may
eventually irrigate about 400,000 ha with 3,397 Mm3 (120 thousand million
cubic feet, TMC) of water from the Godavari river. However, the riparian
states (Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Orissa) have disagreed
over their allocation of Godavari water, and have submitted their dispute
to a tribunal that is not expected to reach a decision until 1973. The
Government of India (GOI) has sanctioned construction of Pochampad dam but
all parties have agreed that diversions will be limited to 1,870 Mm3 (66 TMC)
pending the tribunal's decision. Full development of the first phase, com-
prising the present project, will require an annual diversion of about
878 Mm3 (31 TMC).
1.02      An IDA reconnaissance mission reviewed the project in early
1969 and the Public Works Department (PWD) and the Agricultural Department
of Andhra Pradesh prepared the feasibility study with assistance from the
FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program. The project was first appraised by IDA in
November 1969. However, it was not until December 1970, that the Association
was informed that GOI and the Government of Andhra Pradesh (GAP) had agreed
to a financing plan making provision for the project in the Fourth Five-Year
Plan, 1969-74.
1.03      The Bank Group's lending for agricultural projects in India
totalled some US$250 million up to April 1, 1971. If approved, this would
be IDA's second credit since 1968 for a major Indian irrigation scheme.
The first (176-IN, US$35 million) for the 140,000 ha Kadana project in
Gujarat was signed in February 1970 and was declared effective on July 29,
1970. Progress on the civil works has been satisfactory and initial dis-
bursement difficulties have been overcome. Land development and agricul-
tural aspects of the project are still behind schedule. A third project,
rehabilitation of the Cauvery Delta system in Tamil Nadu, was appraised in
1969 but negotiations were postponed sine die when an inter-state water
rights dispute arose in 1970. A fourth major irrigation project - Tawa
in Madhya Pradesh, - was appraised in November 1970. An IDA reconnaissance
mission, in February-March 1971, has discussed future lending for irrigation
with GOI and state governments.
1.04      In most Indian states, institutional credit is available for private
investment in shallow wells, tubewells, land levelling and farm mechanization.
Up to June 1, 1971, the Association had approved agricultural credit projects
in five states as well as a seeds production project and an agricultural
aviation prolect.
1.05      This report is based on the feasibility study and on the findings
of the November 1969 mission: Messrs. A. Golan, Y. Abe, C.M. Bolt,



D.J. Parsons (IDA) and Messrs. A. Bergan and R.E. Bloodworth (consultants)
and of subsequent missions in February, April and September 1970, and February
1971 by Mr. Bolt and other members of IDA staff. Final revisions and updating,
on the basis of information supplied by GOI and GAP in February 1971, were
carried out by Messrs. C.M. Bolt and D.M. Haynes.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      India's gross national product (GNP), about US$51 billion in 1971,
has been increasing at about 3.5% per annum. Preliminary results of the
1971 population census indicate a total of 547 millions which suggests a
growth rate of about 2.25% per annum over the last ten years. Per capita
income at current prices is about $90. However, if income is expressed in
1960/61 prices and rupee value, per capita incomes have remained nearly
static at US$40-45 during the decade.
2.02      Agriculture sector generates about 40-45% of GNP and provides
employmenc for about 70% of the labor force. Agriculture is still an
important factor in exports, although its share of the total has fallen
from 65% in the early 1960's to 50% in 1968-70. Output of foodgrains rose
from 82 million tons in 1960/61 to 99.5 million tons in 1969/70, but all of
the increase was in rice and wheat. Production of other cereals and pulses
decreased. Production of oilseeds, sugarcane, cotton lint, jute and other
crops has been, at best, static since 1960/61. Per capita production of all
major agricultural commodities has declined, the loss being most serious for
pulses, oilseeds and cotton.
2.03      The Fourth Five-Year Plan, 1969/70 to 1973/74, projected a 5%
growth in agricultural output. While foodgrain production increased at this
rate during the first two years of the Fourth Plan, there were shortfalls in
other crops due partly to a shift of lAnd and other resources to wheat and
rice and partly to the lack of effective technology.
2.04      Efforts to accelerate agricultural development have concentrated
on the introduction of vheat and rice varieties that are more responsive
to fertilizers, irrigation and pest control; and an increase in multiple
cropping by irrigation, in many cases facilitated by farm mechanization
including tractors. The development strategy has included improvement of
the quantity and quality of agricultural extension staff, especially in
areas with responsive soils and adequate water resources.
2.05      The High-Yielding Variety program, started in 1964/65, provided
seeds for 11 million ha by 1969/70. Fertil:.zer consumption rose from
400,000 tons in 1961 to 2 million tons in 1969/70. However, shortages of
assured and timely water supplies to crops, lack of fertilizer production
and distribution, and of credit and marketing services, limit rapid adoption
of the new technology. The total irrigated area has increased from 28 million
ha in 1960/61 to 37 milLion ha in 1969/70. Thus, about a quarter of the total



area of ^rops - 160 million ha per year - are now irrigated but complementary
techniques necessary for fully effective water use, such as field channel
construction, land-shaping and drainage, are lagging behind provision of
basic irrigation.
2.06      The State of Andhra Pradesh has invested large sums in irrigation
projects during the past 20 years but returns have been low, mainly because
scarce resources have been spread over too many projects, resulting in long
construction and gestation periods and delayed benefits. The emphasis
has been on engineering works at the expense of agricultural development
and, in some cases, limited water supplies have been distributed over too
large an area.
2.07      The Andhra Pradesh Cooperative Central Land Mortgage Bank (LMB),
in association with some commercial banks, provides credit for agricultural
investments, especially in minor irrigation, land levelling and farm mechan-
ization. In January 1971, the Association made a credit of US$24.5 million
(226-IN) to help finance this program until June 1973. Some of the invest-
ments will be in the Pochampad project area: in particular, provision is
made for credit to farmers for land levelling.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
3.01      The project area covers about 240,000 ha in the Karimnagar and
Nizamabad districts of the State of Andhra Pradesh (see map). It lies at an
altitude of 250-360 m on the Deccan plateau along the right bank of the
Godavari river. The Godavari, the largest river in southern India, rises in
Maharashtra and flows eastwards 1,500 kis to the Bay of Bengal, but over
half of its length is within the boundaries of Andhra Pradesh.  The estimated
dependable flow is 77,850 Mm3 (2,750 TMC) per annum and less than about
one-third of the flow is now used for irrigation.
3.02      The Pochampad dam, which will be one of the longest in Asia, is
about 200 km by road from the State capital, Hyderabad. The river is about
900 m wide and the valley is broad and slopes gently: at ultimate develop-
ment, the reservoir will cover 452 km2.
Climate
3.03      The climate is monsoonal, with 85% of the annual rain falling
during the kharif season from June through October, the remainder occurring
as variable light rains in the rabi season, November through February. The
average annual rainfall is about 1,000 mm but the 75%-probability annual total
is less than 600 mm (Annex 1). Temperatures range from about 13°C (December)
to over 42°C (May) and the relative humidity drops to about 20% in the rabi
season. While conditions are suitable for crop growth throughout the year,
irrigation is a prerequisite for most rabi crops and in most seasons is
needed for rice, chillies and turmeric during kharif.



-4-
Topography, Soils and Land Use
3.04      The country is open and undulating, characterized by numerous
granite outcrops rising 80 m or more above the general plain. Natural
drainage channels are traditionally used for irrigation and many small
reservoirs ("tanks") have been created by damming small streams. Groundwater
resources have not been studied in detail but a small area (7,000 ha in all)
is irrigated from privately-owned shallow wells.
3.05      A soil survey has been made by the Agriculture Department.  There
are two dominant soil types, both inherently suitable for irrigated farming
with proper management:
(a) light, sandy red soils, usually shallow, with good permeability.
They are non-saline and neutral but of low fertility and respond
well to fertilizers.
(b) heavy, black, fine-textured clay soil,usually deep, with poor
permeability and imperfect drainage. They are non-saline but
slightly alkaline and will require careful management under
irrigation.
The red soils cover nearly two-thirds of the area, generally adjacent to
hills and on slopes of up to 3%. They require erosion control measures
and careful levelling for efficient irrigation. The black soils are found
in lower-lying, gently undulating lands with slopes of about 1%. Although
they have not been affected by the present scale of irrigation from tanks,
sustained irrigation would cause waterlogging and increasing salinity unless
adequate drainage is provided. Further details of the soils are given
in Annex 2.
3.06      About 20% of the project area - mainly on the hills - is under
forest and only about 150,000 ha is suitable for cropping. About 10,000
ha would be excluded from the project because they are already satisfactor-
ily irrigated from tanks. A further 40,000 ha cannot be commanded by gravity.
The net cultivable area irrigated under the project, therefore, would be
100,000 ha.
Population, Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.07      Population density in the project area, 135 per km2, is low
compared to other parts of India. There are about 67,000 farm families,
averaging four persons, in the area to be irrigated in the first phase but
the Pochampad reservoir is designed to provide irrigation water ultimately
to over 380,000 holdings.
3.08      The overall average farm size is 2.2 ha.  Fragmentation is common
but is not sufficiently serious to have a significant influence on produc-
tion or irrigation layout. By far the largest number of farms (85%) are less
than 4 ha but they account for only 40% of the area: only 6% of farms are
over 6 ha, but they account for 36% of the area. Under a 1961 state law,



-5-
the maximum permissible size of holding is 30 ha but, while the law has been
generally implemented, large holdings may be registered under the names
of several family members. Tenancies are uncommon - less than 7% of all
farms - and all tenants are protected by law and enjoy security of tenure.
Agriculture
3.09      Local farmers are generally competent and industrious, though their
efforts are handicapped by the uncertain rainfall. New, proven crop varieties
are readily accepted and the use of fertilizers and pest control chemicals is
growing. Most farms grow rainfed kharif crops such as sorghum, millets,
pulses, maize, sesame and groundnuts. Where supplementary irrigation is
available, the main crops are rice (irrigated mainly from tanks) and turmeric,
chillies and castor (with supplies from shallow wells). Most of the cultiva-
tion and seeding is done with bullock-drawn implements. Further details are
given in Annex 3.
Transportation
3.10      The national highway to Nagpur and Delhi passes close to the project
area, crossing the Godavari just below the dam site (see Map). The project
area is also served by the Central Railway, which has a junction at Warangal.
The internal road system connecting villages with main markets in the area,
however, is inadequate even for the present levels of production. The all-
weather roads system does not reach many of the communities, and construction
and maintenance standards are poor.
IV.  THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would be the comprehensive development for perennial
irrigation of a net area of 100,000 ha along the right bank of the Godavari
river, including construction of the Pochampad Dam to its first phase level;
resettlement of the population of the area to be inundated by the reservoir;
construction of a lined main canal, and of distributaries, drains and roads.
The project would include the introduction of an adequate agricultural
support program; land levelling and bunding in most of the project area;
and studies of recovery of project costs and of the need for processing,
storage and marketing facilities. It would also include establishment of an
agricultural demonstration, training and experimental center; an investigation
of groundwater movement and water losses; and preparation, including air
photography, mapping and feasibility studies, for the development of the full
potential of the reservoir.
A. Project Works
4.02      Construction of the works started in 1964, and in March 1971 the
remaining engineering works (Annex 4) to be carried out included:



- 6-
(a)  continuation of the construction of Pochampad dam to
a level (spillway overflow elevation 318.5m) creating
live storage of 270 Mm3 (9.5 TMC);
(b) completion of the remaining excavation and structures for
the first phase of the Godavari South main canal (about
65 km) and lining of its entire first phase length (113 km);
(c) completion of branch, distributary and minor canals and
field channels to serve 83,000 ha in addition to those
under construction in 17,000 ha of the system;
(d) construction of field drainage where necessary within the
project area; and
(e) construction of about 460 km of village roads.
Pochampad Dam
4.03      The dam has a total length of 14.6 km and consists of extensive
earth embankments up to 36 m in height, flanking a central spillway section
1 km long constructed in hand-laid masonry. Under the project, the spillway
crest would be raised to a temporary level 4 m short of its final height of
28 m (elevation 322.5 m) to provide sufficient live storage capacity to meet
first phase dry-season irrigation requirements (para 4.13). The dead storage
volume of the reservoir 850 Mm3 (30 TMC), is expected to provide for
deposition of silt inflow for about 90 years. The masonry dam is founded
on very sound granite gneiss, and the design satisfactorily provides for
possible local earthquake forces. The levels of flood peaks have been re-
corded nearby for over 50 years, and the spillway has been designed safely
to pass a flood of a size (45,000 m3/sec) which is expected to occur less
than once in 1,000 years, with an acceptable margin for operational factors.
4.04      Preliminary designs and site investigations for the dam were made
in 1961-62 by the PWD, although GOI's Central Water and Power Commission (CWPC)
were made responsible for final detailed designs prepared in Delhi during
1964-66. Construction was started in 1964, but progress was constrained by
shortage of funds until 1967. Heavy earth-moving is undertaken by PWD, which
has already purchased most of the necessary equipment. However, there is a
chronic shortage of spare parts and the project includes provision for
replenishment of proper stocks. Work is now progressing satisfactorily in
accordance with the construction program (Annex 6) and about 50% of the dam
has been built.
Main Canal
4.05      The first phase of construction of the Godavari South canal,
designed by the NWD, would be about 113 km long including a tunnel of
about 1 km. Because of the terrain, which is broken by natural drainage
ways leading to the river, the canal would require an unusually large



number of flumes, syphons and other structures, and it would be difficult
and expensive to increase its size at a later stage. The canal is therefore
being built with a bed width (38 m) and discharge capacity adequate for the
second phase of development (150 m3/sec), and it would be lined during
the construction period of the project. The lining will not only reduce
losses and water-logging but also permit the extension of the irrigable area
and increased velocities of flow required for later phases. Higher discharge
capacities would then be obtained by raising the banks and extending the
lining, without the need for canal reconstruction closures which would other-
wise have called for widespread and unacceptable reductions in rabi cropping
and project benefits. Since there is no suitable brick-clay in the area, the
112 km of lining would be of concrete, and the estimated cost would be Rs 75
million (US$10 million). Since the lining has to be constructed to an exact-
ing schedule, the FWD has agreed that it would be carried out under four
large contracts, covering the first 68 km by June 1974 and the remaining 44
km by June 1976, and an assurance has been obtained to this effect.
Irrigation Distribution System
4.06      The production of rice, the staple food in the project area, should
be limited as far as possible to lower-lying black clay soils ("Wet" lands),
since its cultivation on permeable red soils ("Irrigated Dry" lands) would
require excessive amounts of water. Criteria for selection of "Wet" and
"Irrigated Dry" lands have been modified and are now acceptable to the
Association (Annex 2). The capacity of each distributary canal is related
to the proportion of its minor canals which serve exclusively either "Wet"
or "Irrigated Dry" lands. For the design and efficient operation of the
canals in the present and later phases it will be important to obtain data
on crop irrigation requirements and water losses, particularly those due
to seepage from canals and percolation in fields, which are liable to be
exceptionally high in the project area (Annex 2). These studies will be
included in the project.
4.07      The distribution system is being designed by PWD. The standards
adopted are acceptable but at present the layout is based on surveys by
Survey of India (SOI) and the project staff. The surveys, though accurate,
are insufficiently detailed for designing irrigation and drainage systems.
To assist the proper planning of the present project and the remaining area
irrigable from the reservoir, it will be necessary to provide large-scale
mapping of the relevant areas as soon as possible. The maps would be based
on air photography produced by the SOI with UNDP support, using improved
techniques with equipment to be procured under the project.
4.08      The 1,800 km of branch canals and distributaries would be
completed by 1975. In many previous Indian irrigation projects the
realization of benefits has been delayed because the permanent irrigation
outlets from minor canals to field channels as well as the field channels
themselves, were not constructed until long after completion of the
larger canals. To achieve early benefits from the project, permanent outlets
and field channels would be constructed as part of the project by PWD before
each minor canal is commissioned, according to a schedule that would ensure



that all first phase channels are operational by June 1976. Outlets would
serve no more than 40 ha, and the exact site of each outlet would be
dletermined by teams of officials (each comprising a Revenue Inspector, PWD
Supervisor, Agricultural Extension Officer, Cooperative Supervisor and
Block Development Officer) after consultation with farmers. Two such teams
Eltarted work in April 1970, and additional teams would be formed as and when
necessary.
Drainage System
4.09      The natural drainage system would be improved and new drains built
as necessary by PWD, to prevent waterlogging and salinization of low-lying
lands and also to prevent erosion and to protect roads and other works. As-
surances have been obtained during negotiations that construction of drainage
systems would proceed simultaneously with on-farm development in each area,
and would be completed before June 1976.
Land Levelling
4.10      Land levelling would be required in most parts of the project area
and "wet" lands would also require bunding to provide adequate water control
for rice cultivation. Farmers on smaller holdings are expected to do this
work by hand or with bullocks, with their own resources. On larger holdings
farmers would employ labor contractors or the mechanized units of the State-
owned Agro-Industries Corporation for at least part of the work. Based
cn experience with similar projects in Andhra Pradesh, it is expected that
farmers will seek long-term credit from the LMB for development of about 25%
(17,000 ha) of the "irrigated dry" lands and 40% (14,000 ha) of the "wet"
lands. The Agricultural Credit Project (226-IN, see para 2.07) would assist
in financing these works until June 1973. Assurances have been obtained
during negotiations that the State will at all times ensure that appropriate
technical staff are posted to the project area for this purpose, that
satisfactory standards are adopted and adequate equipment provided, and
that sufficient funds will be available to assist farmers in the project
area who require credit for land levelling.
Roads
4.11      The Public Works (Roads and Buildings) Department would be
responsible for construction of the project roads according to its customary
standards and practices. Upon completion of these roads the project area
would have about 1,000 km of all weather roads which, with adequate mainten-
ance, should satisfy the major transport requirements of the project. Costs
of road construction will be financed entirely by GAP but there is a provision
for road maintenance equipment in the Credit.
Land Acquisition and Resettlemsent
4.12      Pochampad reservoir will eventually inundate or infringe on the
areas surrounding 82 villages. During the first phase of construction of the



-9-
dam, 26 villages will be wholly or partly submerged, involving the resettlement
of some 7,500 families. Under a phased plan, villagers are being resettled
by GAP in cleared forest areas on both banks of the Godavari river. Families
who have cultivated land for more than three years would be given an equivalent
area free of charge, subject to a maximum of 2 ha dry land or 0.8 ha irrigated
land. Housing sites, transport and other services would be provided by the
state government. Sites for new resettlement centers have been selected, and
four villages have already been resettled by special teams. Families who
wish to move elsewhere are eligible for cash grants of Rs 500 - 2,000 in lieu
of land.
B. Water Demand, Supply and Quality
Water Demand and Supply
4.13      At full development of the 100,000 ha which it would be feasible
to bring under irrigation during the 5-year project period, there would be
a 75% probability that the water demand at the reservoir would be less
than about 880 Mm3 (31 TMC) annually. This demand would be less than half
of the utilization of 1,870 Mm3 (66 TMC) which has been sanctioned by GOI.
River flows have been gauged daily on the Godavari river near Pochampad for
more than 20 years, and rainfall data have been recorded for 78 years in the
catchment area. Figure 1 shows that the river flow far exceeds project demands
from June through November, but that it must be supplemented by releases from
reservoir storage to meet demand during the dry season. On completion of the
present project in 1976, up to 200 Mm3 (7 TMC) must be released from January
through May. The project provides for construction of the dam to a level
which will provide 270 Mm3 (9.5 TMC) of storage, adequate to meet irrigation
needs and losses, as shown in Figure 2. Full irrigation development upstream
could, if sanctioned, eventually reduce river flow to the point when release
of 340 Mm3 (12 TMC) from storage would be needed for the project during the
period December through May. Figure 2 shows that, even if no further work is
carried out after 1976, the 425 Mm3 (15 TMC) of storage capacity eventually
needed for 100,000 ha could be provided by raising the dam by a further 2 m.
Water Quality and Drainage Requirements
4.14      For irrigation purposes, the quality of the river water is good
in the 6-month high flow season and adequate in the low flow season. It
would be satisfactory for continuous irrigation, even in the black clay
soil areas, provided that the water table is not permitted to rise excess-
ively and cause salt accumulations.
4.15      It is likely that irrigation, especially in the rabi season,
would raise the water table, possibly to a level where it would cause
drainage problems and reduced yields. Pre-irrigation groundwater levels
were studied during the soil survey but detailed observation of water table



- 10 -
fluctuations, and of their effect on drainage, would be needed when large-scale
irrigation starts. Provision was made in the Agricultural Credit Project
(226-IN) for three experts to strengthen the State Groundwater Directorate
(SGD), who would be competent to advise PWD on location of test sites and
interpretation of data. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
either SGD or PWD would prepare and initiate a groundwater monitoring program
in the project area by April 1972, and that further studies of field drainage
needs would be carried out according to terms of reference satisfactory to
the Association (see Annex 2, para 6).
C. Construction Schedule
4.16      The dam, which is already 50% completed, would be constructed to
its first phase height in 1976. The main canal (except for 20 km of lining),
the branch, distributary and minor canals would be completed throughout the
project area in 1975. All other works, notably outlets, watercourses and
roads as well as the remaining 20 km of the lining of the main canal, would
be completed by June 1976, and the whole of the 100,000 ha would be irrigated
by the kharif and rabi seasons of 1976. The construction schedule is shown
in Annex 6, and includes the program of irrigation development.
D. Cost Estimates
4.17      Overall costs of the first phase of the project are estimated at
Rs 944 million (US$127 million). About Rs 262 million, or 28% of the total
cost, had been spent by the end of March 1971.  The balance, Rs 682 million
(US$91 million), would be required for remaining first phase works includ-
ing the cost of land levelling and bunding. The cost of thiss-on-farm devel-
opment work is estimattd at Rs 129 million (US$17 millinon) of which about
Rs 37 million would be required for loans to farmers through the LMB.  The
cost of the project to the Central and State Governments would be Rs 553
million (US$74 million) including contingency provisions.  Details -of the
costs are given in Annex 7.  The remaining costs to complete the first phase
of the project by June 1976 are summarized in the table below:



- 1 1 -
COST ESTIMATES
Foreign
Item                     Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange
---(Rs million)---   -(US$ million)---    %
Pochampad Dam:
Equipment                        4       6      10   0.5   0.8       1.3    61
Construction                    60       5     65   8.0   0.7        8.7     8
Land Acquisition and
Resettlement                  48      -      48   6.4    -        6.4      -
Subtotal                    112     11    123  14.9   1.5    16.4         9
Water Distribution System:
Main Canal:
Equipment and Materials         10      19      29   1.3   2.5       3.8    66
Construction                   194      20    214  25.9   2.7    28.6        9
Land acquisition                 1       -       1   0.1    -        0.1      -
Subtotal                   205      39    244  27.3   5.2    32.5    16
Distributary canals,
field channels & drainage:
Equipment                        2       -       2   0.3    -        0.3      -
Construction                    70       3      73   9.3   0.4       9.7      4
Land acquisition                 3       -       3   0.4    -        0.4      -
Subtotal                     75       3     78  10.0   0.4    10.4        4
Road Development:
Construction                    27       2     29   3.6   0.3        3.9      8
Land acquisition                 2       -       2   0.3    -        0.3      -
Subtotal                     29       2     31   3.9   0.3       4.2      7
Maintenance equipment              1       6       7   0.1   0.8       0.9    88
Subtotal                     30       8     38   4.0   1.1       5.1    22
Supporting Services and
Investigations:                  3       3       6   0.4   0.4       0.8    50
Contingencies:
Physical                        23       2      25   3.1   0.3       3.4      8
Price                           32       8      40   4.3   1.0       5.3    19
Subtotal                     55     10      65   7.4   1.3       8.7    15
TOTAL (without on-farm develop-
ment)                          478      75    553  63.7  10.0    73.7    14
On-farm Development:
Land levelling and
bunding /1                     129       -    129 j17.2             17.2      -
TOTAL (with on-farm develop-
ment)                          607      75    682 |81.0  10.0    91.0    11
/1   To be financed partly by Agricultural Credit Project (226-IN).



- 12 -
4.18      Cost estimates for Pochampad Dam are based on unit rates and
prices obtained from contractors on the dam and on rates for similar works
elsewhere in Andhra Pradesh. Estimates for canal constructioni are based on
actual costs of work so far completed. Allowances for physical contingencies
vary from 5% to 20% on individual items, depending on the nature of avail-
able estimates, averaging 8% on construction works. Allowances for future
price escalation (7% per annum for imported equipment and 5% for local
materials, supplies and labor) increase the overall contingencies to 12%.
The estimated foreign exchange costs of the project are US$10 million, equi-
valent to 18% of construction costs, or 14% of the overall costs, excluding
on-farm development.
E. Financing Plan
4.19      The project would be financed from the Andhra Pradesh development
budget with the help of grants and loans from GOI and by farmers. The
Revenue Department of the State Government would advance the funds needed for
field channels (Rs 7.5 million) and obtain repayments from farmers. LMB is
expected to provide loans of about Rs 37 million for land levelling and
bunding: providing that criteria are met, LMB could seek reimbursement, at
the rate of 66%, under the Agricultural Credit Project 226-IN. GAP would
finance both foreign and local costs of roads (para 4.11). The financing
plan for the period April 1971-June 1976 would be as follows:
Rs million   US$ million
equivalent   equivalent
IDA Credit
Foreign exchange, 100% of requirements
(other than roads)                                        73           9.7
Local currency expenditures on project
works, approximately 46% of requirements               220          29.3
Subtotal         293         39.0
Andhra Pradesh State and GOI
Foreign exchange for roads                                 2           0.3
Local currency expenditures on project works,
approximately 54% of requirements                      258          34.4
Total (without on-farm costs)         553          73.7
Farmers and Credit Institutions
Land levelling and bunding                               129          17.2
Total            682         91.0



- 13 -
4.20      The proposed IDA Credit of US$39 million (Rs 293 million equiva-
lent) would finance 100% of foreign currency requirements and 46% of
the remaining local currency items other than roads, land levelling and
bunding. The Association's share of the items other than on-farm financing
development would be about 55%, large enough to bring about necessary improve-
ments in organization, funding and execution of the project. The Agriculture
Credit Project (226-IN) will also provide a share of the financing, through
assistance to on-farm development.
4.21      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that GOI would relend
to Andhra Pradesh an amount equal to the proceeds of the Credit (except for
the amount provided for the photographic mapping equipment for SOI), which
would be allocated specifically to the project.
4.22      Assurances were obtained that GOI and the Government of
Andhra Pradesh would review annually with the Association the proposed
construction schedule for the following fiscal year and the budgetary
allocations necessary to meet this schedule.
Procurement
4.23      Equipment and materials costing about Rs 23.5 million (US$3.1
million) would be purchased by international competitive bidding in which
local manufacturers would receive a preference of 15% or the actual custom
duty, whichever is lower. Photographic mapping equipment and spare parts for
existing equipment, as well as supplementary spares for new equipment, would
be purchased from the manufacturers or their agents at an estimated cost of
Rs 12.5 million (US$1.7 million).
4.24      Contracts amounting to about Rs 35 million have already been
awarded, after local competitive bidding, for most of the remaining works on
the dam; the balance of about Rs 20 million (US$3 million) would be carried
out mainly by force account. For other major civil works (totalling about
US$30 million) consisting of the main canal and its lining, a branch canal,
and most village roads, international competitive bidding would be a techni-
cally appropriate procurement procedure. There are Indian contractors
capable of carrying out this type of work to acceptable standards in accord-
ance with the construction schedule, and they would most probably submit
lowest bids. For this project, the Association would agree that, as an
exception to its Guidelines, procurement of civil works, other than force
account, would be by competitive bidding limited to Indian firms (i.e.,
those registered in India and in which Indian concerns hold a majority
interest). However, international bidding, where appropriate for civil
works in its future irrigation projects in India, is under active discussion
with GOI.
4.25      To ensure efficient construction of the main canal lining, syphon
and tunnel by contractors, assurances were obtained during negotiations that



- 14 -
the terms, conditions and procedures for award of these six cont-racts would
be acceptable to the Association and would TIclude, inter alia:
(a)  adequate provision for advances for the purchase and
mobilization of equipment required by contractors as
stated in their bids;
(b)  provision of licenses and foreign currency allotments for
the import by contractors of equipment and spare parts if
not available in the country and required for carrying out
the works as bid, or if the necessary Indian-made equipment
cannot be delivered by dates specified in their bids;
(c)  provision for bonus payments for early completion where
there is a quantifiable advantage to be obtained, as in
the lining of the main canal; and
(d)  general conditions of contract which would suitably define
and restrict the supervisory and arbitration functions of
PWD.
The latter provision is necessary since under existing procedures PWD
engineers retain substantial powers to direct and control the contractors'
work and exclusive power to arbitrate in any claims or disputes. Without
such changes to existing contract provisions, substantial local contractors
may not be willing to bid for civil works contracts administered by PWD.
4.26      For the remaining contracts for excavation of the main canal
and of the largest branch canal, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that the works would be divided into contracts estimated to cost
at least Rs 2.5 million each. Bids would be invited in groups of at
least three such contracts, and provision would be made for tenderers to
choose to submit bids for one or more contracts or to bid for a combina-
tion of any or all in the group. The contracts would be awarded to the
lowest bidder for each contract unless a combination bid were lower than
the sum of the individual bids.
4.27      Minor civil works, including distributary canals and drains, can
only be awarded in small contracts to avoid interference with crops and to
circumvent delays due to unavoidable difficulties over land acquisition.
These contracts would be awarded after local bidding.
Disbursement
4.28      Disbursements would cover the full CIF cost of imported equipment,
spares and materials (US$4.8 million) or the FOR cost of Indian-made goods,
aind an agreed percentage, presently estimated at 80%, against the cost of
civil works for the dam, main canal (including lining), and the distribution
anid draiiage systems. The documentation for disbursement would consist of
(n) norm.ail shipping documents for imported items; (b) certified and receipted
progress payment vouchers under contracts whose total value exceeds Rs 300,000;
and (c) monthly summaries, signed by the Superintendent Engineer and Budget



- 15 -
Officer, for small contracts and force account costs including labor, fuels
and lubricants, miscellaneous materials and payments to SOI for maps and air
photography. The cost of roads, land acquisition, overheads and administra-
tion, duties, and costs not directly related to civil works would not be
eligible for reimbursement from the Credit account. Any savings in equipment
and spares categories resulting from the procurement contracts not approved
by the Association would be cancelled. Other savings would be used only to
meet increases in costs. Withdrawals for force account work would be limited
to Rs 30 million.
4.29      The estimated schedule of project costs is given in Annex 7, and
is summarized as follows (excluding on-farm development costs):
Government Fiscal Year
19117/72  1972[73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  Total
Rs Million         89      122       121      136        72       13      553
US$ Equivalent    11.9      16.3      16.1     18.1       9.6       1.7    73.7
The estimated schedule of disbursements from the Credit is given in Annex 16.
Auditing of Accounts
4.30      PWD maintains separate accounts, which are subject to internal
audit, for the Pochampad Project. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that the Accountant General of the State of Andhra Pradesh would send the
Association copies of the audited PWD accounts, together with certified
statements of expenditures on the project by Agriculture, Revenue and other
departments, within six months after the close of the fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Coordination and Management
5.01      The organizational arrangements established by the Government
of Andhra Pradesh for irrigation projects in the state generally consist
of four levels of committees; a High Power Committee under the Minister for
Irrigation as chairman; a State Level Committee under the Commissioner for
Development of Ayacuts (areas under irrigation); District Level Committees
under the District Collectors; and a Rehabilitation Committee under the
Member in charge of rehabilitation of persons displaced from reservoir
areas (Annex 8). For the Pochampad project, the first three of these
committees were formed in 1970, and the last was constituted in 1968.
5.02      The High Power Committee meets every six months and can make
rapid decisions at ministerial level to assist in removing difficulties
in implementation of the project. The State Level Committee performs the
important functions of allocating and coordinating departmental activities



- 16 -
on the project, and enisuring that progress is maintained according to the
developmeat program.  In addition to the Ayacut Development Comnmtssioner,
the members of this committee include the Secretaries and heads of all
departments and agencies concerned with the project (Annex 8).  In view of
its importarit role in implementing the project, assurances were obtained
d1aring negotiations that the terms of reference of the State Level or
Development Cortmittee would be acceptable to the Association, and that the
Committee would have responsibility for the policy direction of the planning
and managemenit of the project.
5.03      The IDistrict Level Committees formed for Nizamabad and Karimnagar
District:s, are intended to deal with matters connected with the development
of irrigated 2gt iculture under the project in each district.  Project areas
do not however coincide with district boundaries so that responsibility for
agricultural development, which is organized on a district basis, is often
obscure within a project. The more extensive agricultural. support programs
anUd the increased tempo of civil works construction proposed for the project
will require the collection of data, planning, coordination, budgeting and
review of all activities on the basis of the project area rather than
district-wise. Assurances were therefore obtained during negotiations
that a Project Working Committee would be established before November 1971,
with tetms of reference acceptable to the Association, to ensure full liaison
between departments working on the project, and with responsibility for the
iraplementation and operation of the project.
5.04      The Project Working Committee would operate under the chairmanship
of a senior official in a new key post, Project Coordinator, who would also
be a member of the State Level committee. Because of the importance
attached to this appointment, assurances were obtained that the Government
of Andhra Pradesh would consult with the Association with respect to the
experience and qualifications required for the post of Project Coordinator
before appointing an officer to the post. It would be a condition of
effectiveness of the Credit agreement that a Project Coordinator had been
appointed with suitable rank, powers and responsibilities.
5.05      A committee consisting of representatives of the GOI Ministries
of Irrigation, Agriculture and Finance, is responsible for the coordination
of data collection on irrigation projects to be presented by the GOI to IDA.
This liaison should be continued during the implementation of the project to
coordinate project programs with those conducted by the GOI. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that arrangements would be made to ensure
GOI's continuing association with the implementation of the engineering and
agricultural aspects of the project through its coordinating committee.
B. Supervision of Works
5.06      A Chief Engineer of PWD is presently responsible for the execution
of all project works. He is assisted by Superintending Engineers in charge
of four construction units and by the Executive Engineer in charge of a
quality control unit. This arrangement is adequate for the canals and



- 17 -
structures designed by PWD provided that adequate staff are posted to the
project. The present arrangement is not however satisfactory for the dam.
Responsibility for the adequacy of the dam as constructed should rest with
the design agency (CWPC). The construction agency (PWD) is not in a position
to determine the inter-action between actual site conditions encountered and
CWPC's design criteria.  Therefore to ensure the safety and proper functioning
of the dam, all changes and additions to the original design should be drawn
up or approved by CWPC, whose staff should also maintain surveillance over
the construction standards. Assurances were obtained that CWPC would assign
competent and experienced staff as necessary to review work at the dam site,
including design changes and quality control, and that CWPC would certify
that the major components of the dam, when completed, have been carried out
in accordance with their designs and specifications.
5.07      Occasional independent maintenance inspections would be needed to
ensure that the dam continued to be in a safe and satisfactory condition.
Assurances were obtained that arrangements would be made satisfactory to the
Association to inspect the dam at intervals not exceeding five years to
determine whether there are any actual or potential deficiencies in the
structure or earthworks, quality and adequacy of maintenance, or methods of
operation that might endanger the safety or affect the satisfactory
functioning of the dam.
C. Operation and Maintenance
5.08      Dam and Canals:  The construction staff would be responsible
for the operation and maintenance of the dam until its completion. There-
after a separate operation and maintenance division would be formed. The
canal operating and maintenance division, based at Jagtiyal, would take
over from the construction division in 1975. The main canal would be
operated from June through April and closed in May for repairs and annual
maintenance. Distributary canals would be opened continuously in kharif
and intermittently opened in turn during rabi, according to an operating
program to be established annually by PWD in collaboration with the Department
of Agriculture and the Panchayats (local administrative councils). Farmers
would take their supplies from field channels in turn according to a timed
routine.
5.09      Roads.  Existing feeder roads which are under the jurisdiction
of the District authorities would be maintained by the maintenance organi-
zation of those authorities, and the project includes some equipment for
this purpose. The existing and new village roads would be maintained by the
Public (Roads and Buildings) Department with machinery to be provided under
the project. The State Government has agreed that adequate funds will be
provided for maintaining these roads.



- 18 -
5.10      Operation and Maintenance Costs.  Traditionally, all irrigation
projects in Andhra Pradesh have been allocated Rs 10 per ha annually for
operation and maintenance costs. To keep Pochampad reservoir and canal
system in efficient order, it would be necessary to increase the annual rate
to at least Rs 20 per ha. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that
the allocation of funds for maintenance of the project would cover 0 & M
costs and that they would be reviewed every five years. Farmers are respon-
sible for maintenance of field channels and the cost is included in farm
production costs.
D. Agricultural Support Program
5.11      The State's Joint Directors of the Departments of Agriculture and
Cooperatives would be responsible to the Project Coordinator for agricul-
tural development and supporting agricultural services for the project.
Deputy Directors of Cooperatives, Agriculture and Animal Husbandry, engaged
full time on the project, would be responsible for supervision of all their
departments' activities at the project level. They would be assisted by
technical staff from their respective departments and by subject matter
specialists from the Agricultural University at Hyderabad. The present
agricultural staff in the area, however, cannot meet the requirements of an
irrigation project.
5.12      A general outline of a basic support program, and an estimate of
the staff required, are given in Annex 10. Assurances were obtained that
the State Government would finalize a comprehensive program, satisfactory
to the Association, within six months of signing the proposed Credit and
thereafter would post the necessary staff to the project area.
5.13      While the present demand for production credit is negligible,
it would rise to perhaps half of production costs - or Rs 50 million per
annum - when the project area is fully developed. This would be four or
five times the present capacity of existing cooperative societies in the
project area. The agricultural support program would therefore include
provision for strengthening and expanding the societies.
5.14      Marketing, storage and processing facilities will not be adequate
when the project reaches full development. Present estimates of the
requirements, and their financial implications, are given in Annex 9. How-
ever in order to ensure orderly development, the project would include
provision for carrying out a comprehensive study of the optimum size,
location and timing of construction of the new facilities required and their
financial and administrative implications.
5.15      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that this comprehensive
study would be carried out and that, by December 1972, the State Government
and GOI would discuss the implementation of its recommendations with the
Association.



- 19 -
E. Agricultural Taxes and Recovery of Project Costs
5.16      The Land Revenue Act lays down different scales of land taxes,
cesses and levies for rainfed and irrigated farming land. The Act makes
provision for changes but rates are rarely revised at intervals of less than
about 20 years. Revenues from rainfed farming in the project area are very
small - the average for the whole State is only about Rs 10 per ha. More-
over, collections are erratic partly because taxes are reduced or waived
if the rains are poor.
5.17      The rates are higher, and collections more consistent, from
irrigated land. Land tax, a local cess equivalent to about 25% of the tax,
and a water cess are general revenues which contribute to the State's annual
budget and finance local development projects. The actual rates vary from
project to project and within projects, depending on soil fertility and
the type of irrigation provided (Annex 12). In the present project, the
combined rate would be about Rs 62.50 per ha (US$3.40 per ac) for irrigated
kharif crops and about Rs 42.10 per ha (US$2.30 per ac) for irrigated rabi
crops.
5.18      A betterment levy is the only means of recovering government's
investment in the project but the levy is based on the increase in land
value resulting from irrigation and not on actual project costs. The Land
Revenue Act provides that the betterment levy should be equal to half the
increase in land values and should be paid in 20 equal annual instalments
without interest. The levy would be about Rs 625 (paid in 20 instalments
of Rs 31.20) for land irrigated in the kharif, and about half that amount
for land irrigated in rabi.
5.19      Allowing for the proportion of different types of land, the
annual revenue collections at existing rates in the fully-developed project
would be:
Rs million per annum
Land Revenue and Water Cess              4.3
Betterment Levy                          2.1
6.4
Local Cess                               0.6
Total               7.0
The land revenue and water cess would cover the annual operation and
maintenance costs of Rs 2 million (para 5.10). However, under present
land, the betterment levy would recover only Rs 42 million of the total
investment of about Rs 300 million. 1/ While additional taxes or levies
might prove a disincentive to small farms, owners of holdings of 4 ha or
1/   Project cost with reservoir and main canal costs allocated to the
present and future phases in relation to area served.



- 20 -
more could contribute to the full recovery of project costs without adversely
affecting their incentives. Assurances were therefore obtained that the
Government of Andhra Pradesh would:
(a) collect the authorized charges payable on irrigated land
by the end of 1972, or as soon thereafter as water is
allocated to any land in the project;
(b) complete a study by the end of 1974 on arrangements for
the recovery of:
(i) the full cost of operation and maintenance
of the irrigation system, and
(ii)  as much as practicable of the capital cost of the
reservoir and the irrigation and drainage system
which would be attributable to the project area,
taking into account the incentives and repayment
capacity of farmers, and would then discuss the
results of the study with the Association; and
(c) implement arrangements for recovery of the costs described
in (b), by the end of 1976.
5.20      Farmers would repay the cost of field channels (Re 75 per ha) to
the Revenue Department. LMB loans for land levelling would be repaid over
10 years, with 9% interest (see Credit 226-IN).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND FARM INCOME
A. Production
6.01      Present yields are erratic and low, reflecting the vagaries of
the imonsoon. Without the project, new technology would be expected to bring
about some improvement in years of good rainfall, but the long term average
yield would remain low. The assured, regulated water supply; the on-farm
developments, especially land levelling; and the inputs and extension service
provided by the project would raise yields markedly. Thus paddy yields are
expected to increase from 1.2 to 4.0 tons per ha and groundnuts from 0.7 to
1.5 tons per ha. Maize, which yields less than 1 ton per ha as a rainfed
crop, is expected to yield 3.7 tons per ha under irrigation. These increases
would, of course, be accompanied by increases in production costs. Proj-
ections of annual requirements in the project area for improved seed,
fertilizers and agricultural chemicals indicate that these inputs would
be available in adequate quantities, from existing sources of supply, to
achtieve the expected yield levels. Details of yields, production, prices
,;iiJ costs ure given in Annex 11.



- 21 -
6.02      During kharif, about one-third of the project area (the "Wet" lands)
would grow paddy, the most popular crop with farmers. Rainfed grains, pulses
and oilseeds will be grown on the unirrigated land but overall there may be
a slight reduction in cropping intensity during kharif. However, there would
be a major increase in maize and groundnuts grown under irrigation during
rabi when irrigation would be available for the other two-thirds of the
project area ("Irrigated Dry").
6.03      Overall, the cropping intensity in the 100,000-ha area would
increase from the present 110% to 155% as summarized below:
Cropped Area             Production
Present  Future   Present  Future  Increment
2-'506 ~ha--------- 000 ton----
Kharif
Paddy (irrigated)               -        34        -       136        136
Foodgrains (rainfed)           25        12       20        10       -10
Pulses                         33         9       13         4        - 9
Oilseeds                       18        15        8         7       - 1
Subtotal, Kharif             76       70
Rabi
Irrigated
Maize and other foodgrains  -         36         -       133       133
Groundnuts                    -       20         -        24         24
Commercial crops               7 /1   10         8        13          5
Non-Irrigated
Foodgrains and fodder         27      19         4         2        -2
Subtotal Rabi:             34      85
Total Project:           110      155
Cropping Intensity               (110%)   (155%)
/1   Mostly chillies and turmeric under irrigation from shallow wells.
B. Market Prospects
6.04      Foodgrains production in Andhra Pradesh during the 1952-69 period
increased, on an adjusted basis allowing for weather conditions, at about
1.9% per annum. Over two-thirds of the production growth was due to an
increase in the area under cultivation and the rest as a result of improved
yields. This trend was heavily influenced by paddy production, which accounts
for nearly two-thirds of all foodgrains produced in the State. Despite the
slow increase in production, the State had some surplus grains during most
years in the 1960's. Using a projected per capita demand for foodgrains of



- 22 -
about 165 kg per annum, and an annual population growth rate of 2.5%, demand
in Andhra Pradesh (including 12.5% allowance for stock feed, seed requirements
and waste) would amount to about 9.6 million ton annually in 1975. By
comparison, the highest annual production on record was the 1966/67 crop of
7.7 million tons. Andhra Pradesh would therefore have to increase its food
production by at least 4.5% annually until 1975, Just to meet rising demand
within the State. Even if per capita demand should turn out to be lower,
the annual incremental foodgrains production from the project of around
255,000 ton should find a ready market in the State.
6.05      During the 1960's, Andhra Pradesh accounted for about 15% of total
groundnut production in India and had large exportable surpluses. Demand
for groundnuts in India by 1975, according to GOI projection, will be about
9.0 million tons per annum. Assuming that Andhra Pradesh is to retain its
share of the total production in the country, groundnut output in the State
would have to increase from the present level of around 750,000 tons annually
to 1.8 million tons by 1975. The annual incremental production from the
project area of about 20,000 tons would not be difficult to market under
these circumstances.
C. Prices
6.06      The food zone policy in the country - under which the movement
of major agricultural commodities between the States is controlled by
Government - has caused differences in foodgrain prices between the States.
Furthermore, chronic shortage of foodgrains in the past resulted in un-
usually high grain prices, especially in those States that are not self-
sufficient. With the prospect of India reaching self-sufficiency in food
production during the 1970's, it is assumed that prevailing price differ-
ences for foodgrains between the States, caused in part by present market-
ing restrictions, would gradually disappear; and furthermore that prices
in India by the end of the 1970's, when the project would be reaching full
production, would generally correspond with projected foodgrain prices on
the world market. Similarly, the prices for groundnuts were assumed on
the basis of projected world market prices. Due to its current surplus
position in foodgrains and groundnuts, Andhra Pradesh already has relatively
low prices by comparision with other parts of the country.
D. Farmers' Income
6.07      Computation of farm income is based on returns from irrigated
and rainfed crops in the area commanded by the irrigation system. It does
not include returns from paddy cultivation under tanks, even though these
areas would benefit from increased inflow due to seepage losses on the
project, nor returns from dry farming lands not commanded by the project's
distribution system. Future farm prices used are based on projected 1975



- 23 -
world market prices, valued at the current exchange rate. All figures
relate to income at full development, four years after the introduction of
irrigation. Based on these assumptions, cash farm income 1/ in the project
area would vary between Rs 1,100 and Rs 1,300 per ha, depending on farm
size and the cropping pattern, and averaging about Rs 1,200 per ha for the
project area as a whole. By comparison, the average cash income for the
project area, based on prevailing prices, is presently only Rs 250 per ha.
Representative sample farm budgets for farms of different sizes and cropping
patterns are presented in Annex 13 and summarized below:
Cash Income                          Project Charges
Farm Size        Without    With                 Project           as % of
(ha)           Project  Prect  Increment   Charges              Increment
------------Rs-----------------------
0.6            Nil   655 to 840  655 to 840  55 to 75           8 to 9
4.0            995     5,140         4,145        405             9.7
9.0          2,515    10,710         8,195        905           11
6.08      After irrigation is introduced, cropping intensities and net
returns per unit of land before deductions for family subsistence are
expected to be higher for smaller farm units than for larger ones. Cash
income per ha would, however, be lower on smallholdings since these must
feed a larger number of persons per unit of land by comparison with the
larger holdings. However, since farming activities under the project would
not absorb the entire family labor in smallholdings, small farmers could
continue to supplement their income as casual agricultural laborers and
thus be in a position to pay all the project charges. On the other hand,
there is considerable leeway for increasing charges on the larger holdings.
6.09      The annual repayment of loans for land levelling and bunding
will vary considerably. On small farms, it is expected that most, if not
all, of the work would be done by the family so that no credit will be
necessary. As noted in para 4.10, medium and large farmers are expected
to seek credit for levelling 40% of the "wet" and 25% of the "dry" land.
The maximum repayment likely to be incurred by a typical 4-ha farm would
be Rs 650 per annum, or less than 18% of the incremental income after payment
of project charges. For a 9-ha farm, the maximum repayment would be
Rs 1,460 per annum, or 20% of incremental income after taxes.
1/   Cash farm income is equal to gross value of production less family
subsistence allowance and production costs in which management and
family labor contributions are costed at zero and before payment of
"project charges". Project charges assume that the full cost of the
project, over 45 years, and operation and maintenance costs are
recovered on a uniform basis, proportional to area irrigated.



- 24 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      Through the introduction of irrigation, the project would enable
agricultural activities to be intensified and stabilized in an area pre-
sently dependent upon an erratic rainfall and would bring about a substan-
tial increase in farm income. It would also contribute to India's efforts
to attain self-sufficiency in foodstuffs and improve the balance of payment
by reducing import needs. Assuming all incremental foodgrain production
from the area to be import substitution, foreign exchange savings through
the project at full development would amount to about US$18 million annually.
Aside from these direct benefits, the project would also permit a more
rapid development of subsequent stages, thereby improving their economic
profitability. Labor intensive construction methods and the increased
cropping intensity will create additional employment.
7.02      In the economic analysis of the project (Annex 14), payments for
fami:Ly labor have been excluded from farm production costs, but those for
hired labor have been included. This is justified not only because there
is a general surplus of agricultural labor in the State, but also because
fami:Ly labor in the area already receives what amounts to a subsistence
wage. Fuller utilization of available family labor, as a result of the
project, would not, therefore, give rise to substantial additional economic
cost.
7.03      The present project would bring 100,000 ha under irrigation and
increase the gross value of production from the present level of Rs 60 mil-
lion to Rs 250 million. After allowance for increases in production costs,
the annual incremental net value of production, at projected world market
prices, would be Rs 117 million when full agricultural development is
reached in 1980. Loss of production due to inundation of the reservoir
area is estimated at Rs 3 million per year. The estimated economic rate of
return, over the 50-year life of the project, is over 14% when sunk costs
are excluded. The sensitivity analysis (Annex 15) shows that the economic
rate of return of the project is sensitive to delays, either in construction
or in effective use of the irrigation water, rather than to crop prices. A
delay of two years would reduce the economic rate of return to about 13%: of
four years, to 12%. Particular attention has been paid in formulating the
project to aspects which are liable to cause delays.
7.04      However, the present project includes some costs which are incurred
because it is the first phase of a system which will extend to about 400,000
ha, and which is expected to have an economic rate of return of 24%, excluding
sunk costs. If these first phase costs are allocated between the present and
future projects the economic rate of return for the investments solely for
the present project is about 26Z, again excluding sunk costs.
7.05      As has been seen, work on the Pochampad irrigation system started
in 1962 but progress has been slow due to inadequate financing. About a
quarter of the cost of completing the first phase will have been incurred



- 25 -
before the start of the present project. If these sunk costs are included,
the economic rate of return of the project is about 9% if all costs are
included, or about 19% if joint costs are allocated to future phases.
Environment
7.06      The Pochampad reservoir will be shallow and is not likely to cause
any siesmic nor other adverse effects. The main effect of the project on
the ecology of the area would be the gradual rise in the water table level
brought about by increased irrigation. Provided this is controlled, it
should prove beneficial not only to the annual crops but also to the natural
vegetation and perennial tree crops, enabling them to take advantage of an
extended growing season. It is possible that a more equable provision of
available groundwater would bring about a change in the composition of the
natural vegetation which would increase supplies of fuel and building timber.
The increasing use of insecticides with project development will bring with
it the usual dangers of pollution. However, insecticide use is being closely
controlled in government programs and should not become a serious danger to
the environment in Pochampad.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on the
following principal points:
(a) the construction schedule, estimates and budget
allocation of funds for the project would be re-
viewed each year with the Association (para 4.22);
(b) CWPC, after assigning staff to review work at the
dam site, would certify that the dam had been
constructed in accordance with their designs and
specifications; and the State Government would make
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to have
the dam inspected for defects every 5 years (paras 5.06
and 5.07);
(c) Development and Project Working Committees would be
established before November 1971 with membership and
terms of reference acceptable to the Association
(paras 5.02 and 5.03); and
(d) the authorized charges payable on land irrigated under
the project would be collected by the government; a
study would be made by the end of 1974 of the means of
recovery of operation and maintenance costs, and as much
as possible of the attributable capital cost of the



- 26 -
irrigation system; and arrangements for recovery of these
costs would be implemented by the end of 1976 (para 5.19).
8.02      The only additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit is the appointment of the Project Coordinator (para 5.04).
8.03      The proposed project constitutes a suitable basis for a
Development Credit of US$39 million on standard terms. There would be
a Project Agreement with the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
June 10, 1971



ATNEX 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD -R-RIGAT ION PROJECT
Rainfall
Rainfall in project area
-__________ NTizamabad -------------
Average, 1901-66          Highest       Lowest         75%
Karimnagar   Nizambad        Recorded    Recorded   Probability
(with year)  (with year)       _
---- millimeters ------------------------
January                         5           6          75 (1943)        _
February                       22          19          97 (1901)       -
March                         12           13         111 (1944)        -
April                          22          16         119 (1937)        -             -
May                            23          1.2        128 (1918)        -             2
June                         137          i14         398 (191h)        -            7L
July                         234         285          545 (1958)  57 (1899)         196
August                       177          231.        589 (1963)  92 (1909)         ,_67
September                    179         219          512 (1928)  24 (1899)         133
October                       64           53         192 (1939)        -             9
November                      23          16          96 (1936)        --
December                        L           5          49 (1918)        -
Year                         902       1,016       1,720 (1893) 495 (1899)






ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Soils
1.        Soils in the project area have been surveyed by the State's
Agriculture Department and classified on the basis of surface soil texture
and structure, effective depth, salt content, nutrient status, suitability
for irrigation and, in some cases, surface drainage needs. The Department
has prepared the following maps for use in the project's land classification
and development program: soils; salinity index; soil fertility index; lime
status; salinity and alkalinity; irrigation suitability; soil depth; and
water table depth. Recommendations have been made regarding drainage needs,
crop adaptation, land treatment, special problems concerned with specific
areas and soil-water management.
Soil Types
2.        There are two main types of soils, consisting of several sub-
classes, in the project area; light, sandy, red soils; heavy, clay,
black soils. Both soils are inherently suitable for irrigation. Particulars
of these soils are presented in Table 1 and are discussed below.
3.        The red soils, which account for about two-thirds of the project
area, include loamy sands, sandy loams and sandy clay loams. They range
from brown to red in color; are non-saline because of good internal permea-
bility; have a near neutral reaction (pH - 7.0) and a relatively low clay
content; and occur mostly near the hills, on hillsides and on elevated but
sloping lands. Rock outcrops occur throughout the area where the red soils
are found. In most places, the red soils rest on disintegrating rock
morrum or on the parent rock itself. Due to their shallowness and occurrence
on sloping terraces with diverse slopes of over 2%, irrigation development
of these soils must include erosion control and land leveling for better
distribution of water over the surface and to retain rainfall. Most of
the red soils are low in organic matter and plant nutrients but they
respond rapidly to the addition of both.
4.        The black soils are fine textured soils found on gently sloping
lands with slopes of 1% or slightly more. The surface soil (0-60 cm) is
somewhat lighter in color due to cultivation and is well drained; however,
with an increase in depth, the clay content increases and internal drainage
becomes more restricted. Drainage restrictions are further indicated by
mottled pockets at various depths in the lower subsoil. The soil reaction
is slightly alkaline, ranging from pH 8.0 at the surface to pH 8.5 in the lower
layers. Although no deleterious effects on crop growth are now apparent,
fact that the subsoils are dense, slowly permeable and contain mottled
layers, clearly shows adequate drainage facilities must be provided to
prevent waterlogging and, eventually, salinity.



iXNN!TX 2
I ;-' ge 2
5.        About one-third of the area, the "wet" lands, would receive irriga-
tion during kharif for rice cultivation.  Thie rema-iinIng two-thirds, which
would be irrigated during rabi, are designated as "irrigated dry' lantds.
Origin:ally, two--thirds of the "wet" lands w're to be concentrated on the red
soils and the balanec oza the black soilis tiowever, seepage losses on redi
soils used for rice cultivation are su'stantially hlighier than those experi-
enced on the black soils and, to tlle extent possible, rice production should
be limited to black soils. This, aowever, would be in conflict withi a basic
premise of the State that, for social as well as project reasons, rice cul-
tivatLon should not be concentrated in large homogeneous areas but rather
thiat it should be distributed througihout the area. Thie State authorities
have agreed to revise the selection of "wet" lanids in the project area s j
that at least two-thirds of the lands whichi will be under rice cultivation
are located on black soils and thiat not more than one-third are on red so -s.
Thlis revision in irrigated land use has been reflected in the estim,ates of
project irrigation water requirements (Annex 5, Table 2).
6.        While the presently sanctioned water allocation for the Pochampad
Project is about double the estimated requirement for the first phase, proper
plann:lng of subsequent stages requires detailed knowledge of seepage losses
on the red soils and the extent to which they would be used for rice cultiva-
tion. Seepage losses would also have a considerable bearing on drainage re-
quirements in the area. In order to collect the necessary data on seepage
and drainage needs over so large an area, the following studies would be
needed:
(a)  Evaluation of permeabilities of subsoil and substrata
(seepage losses).
(b)  The introduction of piezometric or open well studies of
existing irrigated areas of different textured soils.
The profile permeability studies and water table investigations
should be conducted simultaneously in order to derive maximum
benefits from both; and
(c) Establishment of observation stations to record water table
fluctuations by means of piezometers or open wells. These
stations should be located on irrigated land of known soil
conditions and irrigation schedules. Continued records of
these data will aid greatly in securing a better understanding
of water table fluctuations due to rainfall and irrigation.
Stations must be carefully selected in order to secure
representative conditions.
7.        All three studies described above should be closely linked to the
stratum survey (soil profile textural characteristics) to be made of each lo-
cation of piezometric or water table study. Once sufficient information is
collected from these studies, a program of application to drainage and/or
seepage problems can be started. Irrigation efficiency and crop consumptive
use factors which would also be under study, would be incorporated into an
overall drainage program.
June 7, 1971



INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Characteristics of Soils Found in the Project Area
RED SOIIS                         BLACK SOILS
Loamy     Sandy      Sandy Clay         Clay       Silty Clay
Sands     Loams        Loams            Loams        Loams
_,
Area Covered                                            ha (%)         5,000(5%) 45,000(45%) 17,000(17%)    32,000(32%)   1,000 (1%)
Depth of Soils
Extremely shallow (less than 20 cm)                   ha               200       8,000          600             20C           -
Very shallow (20-30 cm)                               ha             1,100      18,000       4,000            1,400           -
Shallow (30-60 cm)                                    ha               900      17,000        9,500           4,000           100
Medium deep to very deep (more than 60 cm)            ha             2,800       2,000        2,900          26,400           900
2/
Water Holding Characteristics                inch available/ft of soil
depth         0.75-1.0   1.0-1.5       1.5-1.8         1.8-2.2          -
Infiltration Rates
Unsaturated Profile                                 inch/hr            1.5        4.0       0.5-1.0          0.1-0.5
Saturated Profile                                   inch/hr       0.003-0.008 0.10-0.08  0.001-0.005   0.00025-0.00095
pE                                                                     6.5-7.5      7.0          7.5           7.0-8.0       7.0-8.o
Mechanical Analysis (surface soil)
Sand                                                   %                65         84           58              25            10
Silt                                                   %                20         12           17              24            70           e 3
Clay                                                   %                15          4           25              51            20 
These areas are derived "pro ratal" from the distribution of soils surveyed over the original gross project area.
/ Estimated from soils of similar texture - T'hxas Agricultural Experiment Station Bulletin No. 937.
'!






ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agriculture
General
1.        The Pochampad project area is part of the Deccan plateau, an
open, rolling plain in central and southern India ranging in altitude from
300 to 1,000 m above mean sea level. Grassland is the natural climax
vegetation of the area except where rainfall increases to about 1,000 mm,
when scrub teak forest is found on uncultivated hills. All grasslands
are heavily grazed by cattle, but due to the very high porosity of the
red soils which dominate the area, soil erosion is not at present a
serious problem. Consequently, fields growing dry-land crops tend to be
large, and apart from cultivating and row cropping across the slope of
the land, no soil conservation measures are employed by farmers. Primary
cultivations as well as drilling and weeding of row crops are carried out
by bullock draft utilizing traditional implements. The standards of
cultivation achieved by these means are impressive and diligent hand
weeding of rice fields and of other crops that cannot be weeded by bullock-
drawn implements produces crop growth of high potential for increased
yields under improved conditions of water supply. Rice is the preferred
grain for consumption but under existing conditions in the project area
the staple is sorghum and maize.
Crops
2.        Kharif crops grown under monsoon rain-fed conditions in the project
area are mainly sorghum (Sorghum vulgare) and pulses. Most of the sorghums
are long-strawed varieties, and can be divided generally into grain and
fodder types. The main pulses grown are red grams (Cajanus indicus),
usually interplanted with the sorghum and black and green grams (Phaseolus
radiatus and P. Mungo). Bengal grams (Cicer arietinum) and llorse grams
(Dolichos sp) are grown for fodder on residual soll moisture in the rabi
season. Where irrigation water is available from tanks, rice is grown in
the kharif and again in the rabi season if the water supply is sufficient.
Irrigation from wells is largely devoted to growing high value crops such
as chillies, turmeric, and castor and sometimes hybrid maize undersown
to grams. Minor rain-grown crops include local varieties of yellow maize,
sesamum, groundnuts and a little wheat, together with small millets such
as Bajra (Pennisetum typhoideum) and Ragi (Eleusine indica) and leguminous
fodders such as Mucuna (or Stizolobium) and cluster bean (cyamopsis psora-
loides). Small areas of ginger, cotton, and tobacco are also grown in the
area. Sugar cane is grown on quite a large scale on the Nizamsagar project
adjoining the project area.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
3.        Future cropping patterns (see Annex 11) envisage continuation of
the growing of the existing cereal varieties under rainfed conditions. Under
irrigation hybrid maize and sorghums will be grown. These hybrids are
produced under existing programs that operate effectively within the State.
New paddy varieties are being produced in India at various centers and
those considered potentially suitable for the project area, together with
introductions from Taiwan and the Philippines, are being tested at Rudrur
(an experimental station adjoining the project area) and will be grown
under irrigation in the area. Dietary protein and oil requirements will
be largely met by groundnuts which will replace much of the present gram
and sesamum acreage.
Yields
4.        In view of the general standard of cultivation, present yields in
the project area are surprisingly low. The very low sorghum yields recorded
reflect in part the failure to differentiate between grain and fodder sor-
ghums. In the case of other rain-grown crops, the low yields reflect both
the large variations in total monsoon rainfall from year to year and the
unreliability of rainfall within a season. Recorded paddy yields in the
area include both the kharif and rabi crop. Since the tanks' water
supply is rarely adequate for a second crop, the presentation of yields as
an annual average is misleading. However, even during kharif present paddy
yields are not very high. This is in part because farmers in the area
have not yet adopted the improved varieties but due also to the low level
of fertilizer application in the past.
5.        The projections of yields to be attained four years after the
introduction of irrigation (Annex 11) are conservative and could probably be
exceeded as farmers gain experience with improved cultivation teclniques and
with better water management. The yields assume higher levels of fertilizers
and pesticides application than those prevailing in the area at present for
all irrigated crops and the adoption of hybrid grain varieties. In the case
of rice it was assumed that no more than two thirds of the cropped area would
be planted to the new high yielding varieties, largely because the varieties
now available are not entirely suitable for the area. However, with further
research new varieties especially tailored to suit the project conditions are
likely to be developed.
Irrigation
6.        About 7% of the project area to be provided wtth an irrigation
system is already being irrigated from shallow wells utilizing either
traditional methods of lifting water, mainly bullocks, or electric and
diesel driven pumps. The wells are used for irrigating holdings of 0.4
to 0.8 ha. Existing inundation canals irrigate a small area of paddy along
the- Godavari River. By far the largest area irrigated, however, is
riceland irrigated from "tanks". These tanks have been made by constructing
earth dams across the numerous drainage channels found in the area, and
providing stone spillways and canal offtakes for up to;120 ha from the
impounded water.   Many tanks date back several hundreds of years.  They
are! used, as are the wells, for rabi irrigation, in addition to irrigation



ANNEX 3
Page 3
during the kharif season, for so long as the water supply is sufficient.
One of the non-quantifiable but significant benefits of the project would
be the improvement of water supply to the tanks and wells as a result of
seepage to the groundwater and surface drainage.
Pests and Diseases
7.        The main rice pests are gall midge and stem borer (also affecting
maize and sorghum). Some virus infection does occur, but is not serious
with the present varieties. Trials to control gall midge and borers are
being carried out at the Agricultural Research Station at Rudrur, close
to the project area. At present, the most successful measure seems to be
to control planting dates. Crops planted after July 15 are heavily
attacked.
8.        Aniother major factor affecting cropping patterns is the prevalence
of fungus and insect attack on sorghum heads that flower during the humid
monsoon months. This severely reduces yields from irrigated crops planted
before the advent of the rains, or from early maturing varieties planted
at the beginning of the monsoon season. Both factors have been taken into
account in arriving at a recommended cropping pattern for the project.
9.        The existing program of plant protection whereby farmers purchase
insecticides from cooperatives or from private distributors for application
themselves appears to be working satisfactorily. The range of products
available is rather wide, covering such formulations as BIIC, DDT, Endrin,
Malathion, Parathion, Dimecron, Nucron and Diazinon, and sulphur and copper
compounds for horticultural crops. The projected requirements at
development are estimated to be 1,800 tons of dusts and 160,000 liters
of liquid. This compares with present consumption of 70 tons and 1,000
liters, so that considerably increased storage will be required to
accommodate these amounts.  Existing supply arrangements would be able to
meet this demand satisfactorily.
Fertilizers
10.       Present potash sales in the area are negligible since its use is
only recommended in the production of tobacco, chillies and the new
high-yielding varieties of rice. The average rate of nitrogenous and
phosphatic fertilizers application per hectare cultivated in the State is
12.5 kg N. and 4 kg P205 respectively. A similar pattern can be found in
the project area indicating that many of the crops grown, and particularly
sorghum, are not adequately fed.  Nitrogen is presently applied in the form
of Ammonium Sulphate and Urea in almost equal proportions with some
Ammonitim Sulphate Nitrate, Calcium Ammonium Nitrate and Ammonium Chloride
also being used.  The principle phosphatic fertilizer utilized is single
superplhosphate (16% P205) and a considerable amnount of compounds are sold
in the form of Ammonium Phosphate Nitrate, Nitro-phosphate, Ammonium
Phosphate, Diammonium Phosphate and a mixture containing 14 N-14 P205
and 14 K20.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
1:L.      Annual project requirements at full development are estimated at
9,000 tons of N, 6,000 tons of P205 and 2,500 tons of K20. This compares
with the present sales of 500 tons of N and about 60 tons of P205 and
indicates the necessity for a considerable increase in storage capacity
in the area. The existing organizations for the supply of fertilizers
through cooperatives and through the pri.vate sector would be adequate to
meet this increased demand.
Jtne 7, 1971



ANNEX 4
Page 1
INDIA
POCHANPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Description of Project Works
1.        The project includes the construction of a storage dam to provide
irrigation supplies for 100,000 ha on the right bank of the Godavari River,
the completion of the first 113 km of the main Godavari South canal, the
distributary canals, watercourses and drains within the irrigated area, to-
gether with extensions to the road system in the area.
A. Pochampad Dam and Reservoir
2.        Purpose:  To store monsoon flows in the Godavari River for release
when required to provide assured and timely irrigation supplies for the proj-
ect. Provision would be made for releases for present and future downstream
requirements and for the later installation of a minor hydro-electric plant
at the dam, as well as a future canal on the left bank.
3.        Location:  Global coordinates, latitude 18°58'N, longitude 8°20'E.
175 km north of Hyderabad, the capital of Andhra Pradesh, and 5 km west (up-
stream) of Soan Bridge across the Godavari River on the HLyderabad-Nagpur
national highway. The reservoir would be located in Nizamabad and Adilabad
Districts, where the river elevation is 280 m (950 ft) above sea level.
4.        Hydrology:
Catchment area at dam site:                    92,000 km2
Maximum flood discharge, observed:              25,700 m3/sec
(909,000 cusecs)
Maximum flood discharge, designed:             45,000 m3/sec
(1,600,000 cusecs)
Annual yield:                                    7,100 Mm31
(250 TMC -)
Dependable yield:                                4,000 Mm3
(140 TMC)
(further details, Annex 5, para 12)
/1   TMC (thousand million cubic feet) is the normal Indian unit
for large quantities of water. I TMC - 28.31 million m3.
5.        Dimensions:  The dam would consist of a masonry central section
in the malni river chlannel, flanked by an earth dam on each bank.  The total
lengtht of the darn would be 14.6 km, and it would be one of the longest con-
tinuous dams ln Asia.



ANNEX 4
Page 2
Dam:      Length of masonry spillway section:             704 m (2,310 ft)
Length of masonry non-overflow, power,
canal regulator and core sections:           253 m (  831 fj)
Total length of masonry dam:                   957 m)3,14l ft)
Length of left earth dam:                    7,559 m (24,80()  ft)
Length of right earth dam:                   6,083 m (19,959 ft)
Total length of earth dam:                  13,642 m (44,759 ft9
Total length of the dam:                    14,599 m (47,900 ft)
First phase      Completion
Maximum height of earth embankments, m   33.5 m             36 m
Maximum height of masonry dam, m            39.1 m          42.6 m
Volume of earthwork, m3                     10.5 million   11.3 million
Volume of masonry, m3                      490,000         570,000
Spillway opening length, m                 -765-----
gates, no.                           None            42
crest elevation, m above
sea level                         318.5           322.5
discharge capacity, m3/sec          ------45,000----------
Maximum discharged observed, m3/sec        ------25,700---------
Reservoir: Storage capacity, total TMC                40              112
cApacity, live TMC                 9.5            82
capacity, useful, TMC              7              75
silt capacity, TMC               ---------30-----------
ReserVoir atea at maximum flood level km2  -_450---_------
6.        Other des.ign features:  A curtain of cement grout Would be
injected 40 m into the tock to prevent seepage and uplift beHeath the dam
foundations.  The dam site is located about 150 km from the nearest
potentially active seismic zone, and the designs of the masonry dam and
the earth embankments have been checked fbt safety in relation to
possible earthquake forces due to a hdtii6titai aeteletation of t0,5g and
found to be satisfactory.
7.        The spillway capacity to be provided during the first and aubse-
quent phases would be adequate to pass the estimated max,timum probable flood
of 45,000 m3/ sec without encroachment Upoh the designed freeboard of the
dam, even if only 39 of the 42 spillway gates to be installed at a latet
stage are fully open.  Minimum provisions for a future hydro-electric plant
would be incorporated in the masonty sedtion of the dafl.
8.        Czn,s.txrctIon:  Work started on site investigations in 1963, and
dit the consttuetf o df the dam in 1966. About 30± of the total co8t of
the dam has been expefided.  Using cofittaet forces and labor intensive,
ttaditional mieth6ds, the tfiasonry bl-cIs have been taised to 3 m above
the whole width of river bed and the flank blocks ate 12 m high.  The
eartli embanktents hcte been taised to abiut 20 tfi above bed level using
tiii ly dtpartmenti11 eiarth-mioving eqtuiifielit on the left bank, and conttactots
oii tlh  right hlink.  Is-v employing about five local contractors in addition,



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the first phase of the dam would be completed by 1976. To provide sufficient
storage for increasing dry-season irrigation requirements, the crest levels
of the masonry and earth sections of the dam would have to reach the
following elevations by the last month (June) of the construction seasons
indicated:
Year                                  1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976
Masonry spillway crest elevation,m 309    311    313    313    315   318.5
Earth embankment crest, m             323    325    327    329    332       334
9.        Resettlement:  82 villages would be affected by inundation due to
the construction of Pochampad dam and reservoir. 46 village areas would
eventually be wholly or partially submerged, necessitating the resettlement
of over 16,000 families. In the first phase, about 7,500 families would be
resettled, some in forest lands with sparse tree growth on the left bank of
the Godavari River, and others in cleared forest lands within the irrigated
area on the right bank. A land acquisition anl rehabilitation scheme is in
operation by the Revenue Department and the PWD in consultation with the
village panchayats concerned.
B. Canals
10.       Main canal:  The principal dimensions of the first phase length
of the Godavari South canal to be constructed under the IDA project, and
taking off from the right flank of Pochampad dam, would be as follows:
Length,                             113 km         (70 mi)
Head discharge capacity,            150 m3/sec   (5,370 cusec)
(Stage II, 245 m3/sec   (8,600 cusec))
Capacity at 113 km (70 mi) limit
of first phase,                   110 m3/sec   (3,800 cusec)
Bed width at head:                 37.7 m          (  124 ft)
Full supply depth,                  3.9 m          (12.75 ft)
(Stage II, 4.3 m         (14.0 ft)
11.       Excavation and structures are complete for about the first 37 km
(23 mi) and are under construction up to 77 km (48 mi). The terrain is
undulating, and rock outcrops are frequent. A considerable amount of blast-
ing is necessary, and the shortage of explosives has been a limiting factor
to progress, although construction is presently on schedule. Work is carried
out by labor-intensive methods which are appropriate in the varIable condi-
tions of rock occurrence. Engineering planning, quality control and super-
vision are noticeably good.
12.       The design of the main canal calls for the perimeter to be lined
with concrete to permit the 25% higher velocities and discharges required at
later stages of development and to redtuce heavy seepage losses. For
installation of the lining, which could only be carried out in the dry



iANNEX 4
.- <ig, C,
season, It would be necessary to close each exayil reachi under construction,
and temporarily cut off rahi irrigati.on sup!Ie;es to project areas frirth'er
along the canal.  T5he ensuing loss of benefits would become increasingly
greater in proportion to the delay In iin!n;, construction.  The effe Ls
would be reduced to tlhe grcatest possibic extent if the proposed progt-aTnS Or
canal excavation and lining are followed:
Year                1971   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/7f
tixcavatlon and
st:ructures, km  Up to 35  35-56   56-67       67-82      82-113
Lining, km            -        0-23   23-45      45-68      68-90       90-113
13.       The appropriate material for canal lining in the project area
would be concrete. To carry out the lining construction satisfactorily
at the required rate, it would be necessary for the contractors to have
available or to procure fully proven, mobile concrete aggregate crushing,
screening, stockpiling and handling equipment, and mobile concrete batching
and idxing plants to provide high-quality concrete in several locations
simuLtaneously. Concrete handling and special compaction equipment would
also be required, possibly with suppliers' technicians continuously resident
o(n siLte to assist with proper assembly, use and maintenance, so as to obtain
the necessary quality of lining.
14.       Branch distributary and minor canals and field channels:  The
irrigation distribution system in the project area has been partly constructed
in about 17,000 ha. To achieve the development objective, the construction
Of branches, distributaries and field channels would be carried out as follows:
Year                1971   1971/72   1972/73  1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
"iistrty command
ha (total)        16,000  32,000   50,000   74,000    100,000         __
Watercourse do.,
ha (total)         2,000  12,000   24,000   52,000        72,000   100,000
Wet: (kharif)      2,000  10,000   18,000   21,000        33,000    33,000
Irrig. Dry (rabi)   -       2,000    6,000   31,000       39,000    67,000
15.       This program would require a considerable increase in PWD staff
for its implementation as well as a significant improvement in the topograph-
ical maps available for the design of the system and its execution. Combined
use of 1:10,000 scale air photos and plane-table surveys offer the quickest
and lowest-cost method of providing the essential maps, and the cost has
been allowed for in the project. It would be necessary to install water-
courses, crossing structures and field channels of adequate dimensions to
stand up to local conditions without frequent maintenance, and the standards
for their design and construct:ion would be agreed between the Agriculture
Department and PWD.
16.       I)rnlnae:  DAe to the nature of the soils, topography and sub-
strata in thin prolect area, it would be essential to investigate, design



ANNEX 4
Page 5
and construct a suitable drainage system throughout muchl of tIie rrojlct
area from the start of large-scale irrigation, if unsatisfactory erosion,
surface runoff and groundwater conditions are to be prevented. The program
of implementation for the drainage system would follow after the installation
of watercourses as scheduled in para 13 above. The design and construction
of interceptor drains above the low-lying "wet" lands would be particularly
important, and would receive early attention after the levelling of farm
lands.
17.       Roads:  The Public Works (Roads and Buildings) Department will
build up about 460 km of new village roads. Roads will be on a raised em-
bankment and have a single carriageway. Further design details will be de-
termined after completion of additional surveys. Field offices will be
established in the project area to look after design and construction of the
new roads.
June 7, 1971






ANNEX 5
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAUMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT STAGE I
Water Demand, Supply and Ouality
1.        This Annex outlines the methods adopted to estimate the irrigation
water demand in relation to the supplies available and the storage needed
for the Project. Due to the absence of direct field data on the use of
irrigation water by crops in the area, empirical methods (based on Penman)
were used to obtain the probable levels of monthly water demand at the head
of the main canal, as shown in Table 1, using the data described in the
following paragraphs.
A. Field Irrigation Requirements
2.        Consumptive use of water (evapotranspiration) by the plants was
estimated for each crop by months, on the basis of evaporation together
with coefficients relating to the stage of crop growth (crop factors), as
stated in Table 1. The probable losses due to percolation of irrigation
supplies below the crop root zone were taken into accotnt, since these would
be significant in much of the project area. The proportion of rainfall
which would be effective for plant growth was also allowed for, together
with the anticipated field irrigation efficiencies likely to be experienced
at farm level on each major soil type and crop, as shown below.
Evaporation Data
3.        Values for evaporation, corrected for rainfall effect, were
derived from seven years of record from the Indian Meteorological Department
Class "A" pan at Warangal, as follows:
Jan.  Feb.  March  Apr.  May  June  July  Ag.  Spt.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Total
--------------------------------------mm---------------------------------------
130   180    250   275   390   300   200  155    143   155   127   122   2,420
Field Percolation
4.        The estimated rates of water loss below the crop root zone accord-
Ing to soil type were as follows:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Cippt               Clay loam (black soils0        Sand loam (red soils)
Paddy rice          0.00125 mm/hr (0.0005 in/ihr)  0.0125 mm/hr (0.005 in/hr)
Maize, jowar, wheat          15% of CUR /a                  20% of CUR
Grourndnuts                        -                        20% of CUR
Chillies, Turmeric                10% of CUR                15% of CUR
/a   CUR = consumptive use rate.
Rainfall Data
5.        From the Indian Meteorological Department station records for
Nizamabad 1901-66, 75% probability monthly rainfall were derived as follows:
Jan.-April   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov./Dec.   Total
--_.---------------------------------lin -------------------------------
nil      2.5    75      196   167     133     9        nil       582.5
The percentage of rainfall effective to plant growth was taken to be:
June, July, August: 85%
September/October:   90%
Field Irrigation Efficiencies
6.        The field irrigation efficiency which is applicable is related to
the soil infiltration rate and the surface waste. It is a function of several
variables including the type of crop, the soil type, the slope of the land
and the formation of field bunds. The efficiencies adopted for the estima-
?ion of irrigation requirements were as follows:
Clay loam     Sandy loam
Crop                locality and bunding       (black soils)   (red soils)
lPaddy rice           Level areas, high bunds           85%            80%
Maize, jowar, wheat  IHigher slopes, low bunds          80%             75%
Groundnuts            Higher slopes, low bunds           -              75%
Chillies, turmeric    Lower slopes, low bunds           85%            80%
Field Irrigation Requirements
7.        The net monthly irrigation requirements of the crop plants, when
modified by the field irrigation efficiencies, provided an estimate of the
field irrigation requirements for each crop as shown in detail in Table 1
and sumarized below:



ANNEX 5
Page 3
Field Irrigation Requirements
Season, Crop and Soil              May   June   July  Au_i  Sept.   Oct.  Total
Kharif
Rice, coarse (135 days):
Clay loam (black) soil          100/a  150/b   75    75    75         -     475
Sandy loam (red) soil           100/a  150/b  175   175   125         75    800
Rice, fine (155 days):
Clay loam (black) soil          100/a  150/b   75    75    75         75    550
Sandy loam (red) soil           100/a  150/b  175   175   125        200    925
Rabi                              Oct.   Nov.   Dec.  Jan.  Feb.   March  Total
-----------------------mm--------------------
Groundnuts:
Sandy loam (red) soil            -       75    125   200   250       150    800
Maize, jowar, wheat:
Clay loam (black) soil           -       75    100   175   150        -     500
Sandy loam (red) soil            -       75    125   200   150        -     550
Chillies, turmeric:
Sandy loam (red) soil           200    200    150    75    -          _     625
/a   Pre-irrigation requirement.
/b   Including nursery period.
B. Canal Head Demand
8.        Based on the above field irrigation requirements and the cropping
pattern described in Annex 11 and adopting the GAP's localization of one-
third of the project area for rice ("Wet") and two-thirds for rabi crops
("Irrigated Dry"), the monthly irrigation water demand for the 100,000 ha
project was estimated, taking into account the distribution losses from the
field to the head of the main canal. Details are shown in Tables 1 and 2.
Distribution Losses
9.        The overall losses from seepage, evaporation, escapage and opera-
tion waste in field channels, watercourses and canals, were estimated to be
as follows (assuming that the main canal would be concrete-lined):
Jan.  Feb.  March  Apr.  May  June  July  A!&   Sept.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.
25    25      35    40    45   35    30    30    25        25    25    25
These percentage losses were applied to the quantities of water entering, the
main canal at Pochampad Darn.  The figures were based on experience elsewhere,



ANNEX 5
Page 4
since no data were avallablle locally.  A hy'rologic;al study would be cairried
out by the PWI) in adjacent aiLas and in the project itself to verify the
assumptions .
Main Canal Head Demand
10.       The resulting monthly demand at the head of the main canal was de-
rived in thousand million cubic feet (TMC) and is shown in Table 2 of this
annex.  There would be ample capacity in the main canal to provide for the
peak irrigation demand in the project.  There would also be sufficient capa-
city in the canal system to allow for considerable flexibility in the crop-
ping pattern, with consequent changes in the irrigation demand.  The total
canal head demands for the year, for December through May, and for January
through May, are estimated to be 883 Mm3 (31.2 TMC), 521 Mm3 (18.4 TMC)
and 410 MmZ (14.5 TMC) respectively, as shown in Table 2 and Figure 1.
C.  Water Su  1
Ll.       Although the total catchment area of the Godavari River upstream
of the Project is about 92,000 km2, the "free" catchment area below any po-
Icential storage or major diversion scheme on the river is about 27,000 km2.
The river has been gauged at Soan bridge for 24 years and metered at a site
about 80 km upstream for 5 years, while rainfall data have been available
for 70 years and flood levels recorded for over 50 years. These records
hlave been used in conjunction with observations from the adjacent Nizamsagar
project to estimate the dependable water supplies for the project from the
"free" catchment. The average annual yield of the Godavari attributable to
the "free" catchment and which would flow into Pochampad reservoir has been
estimated at 7,100 Mm3 (250 TMC). After allowances for projected major and
rninor scheme utilization and return flow at full upstream development, the
net yield equalled or exceeded in 75% of the years of record has been pro-
visionally estimated to be 3,980 Mm3 (140 TMC). Of this amount the mean
aonsoon runoff from June to October would be 3,580 Mm3 (126 TMC), and 400
Mm3 (14 TMC) in the remainder of the year. The quantity authorized, however,
by the GOI Ministry of Irrigation and Power in 1963 for annual utilization
writhin the project was 1,875 Mm3 (66 TMC), and this volume has been adopted
ats the maximum available. It is more than double the estimated annual main
canal head demand for the project shown in Table 2 to be 885 Mm3 (31.2 TMC).
only limited schemes for water diversions are planned upstream of Pochampad
in the near future, and during the project construction period there is only
a remote possibility that the dry season inflow to the reservoir would be
less than tile lowest recorded winter flows measured in 1966-67. In that
season, although the annual flow was 15,700 Mm3 (554 TMC), the flow from
January through May was only 221 Mm3 (7.8 TMC), and this has been adopted
for the estimation of storage requirements for the first phase (see para 13,
anid Figure 1).



ANNIEX 5
Page S
D. Reservoir Storage Requirement
12.       The provisional 75%-probability monthly distribution of the inflow
to the reservoir at full upstream development, and the lowest dry-season river
flow on record, are approximately as follows in TMC and in Mm3:
With full upstream development              Lowest recorded
Accumulated    _      Iry sasor_
Monthly      Accumulated  dry season       Monthly   Accumulated
Inflow         inflow        inflow,       Inflow       Inflow
TMC   _m_      TMC    Mm      TMC   MmJ   TMC    Mm3   TMC   Mm3l
June            9.4    266    9.4    266
July           18.4    512   27.5    778
August         34.5    976   62.0  1,755
September      41.2  1,166  103.2  2,921
October        22.0    622  125.2  3,544
November        7.0    198  132.2  3,742
December        2.5     70  134.7  3,813    2.5   70  (9.6)  (271)
January         1.5     42  136.2  3,855    4.0  113   3.2        90    3.2   90
February        0.9     25  137.1  3,881    4.9  138   1.9         53    5.1  144
March           0.8      22  137.9  3,903    5.7  161   1.6        45    6.7  189
April           0.7      19  138.6  3,923    6.4  181   0.9        25    7.6  215
May             0.5      14  139.1  3,937    6.9* 195   0.2         5    7.8* 220
13.       The accumulated inflows are shown in Figure 1.  To meet crop water
demand at full development of 100,000 ha, the net storage requirement in the
reservoir would be as follows, using the dry season demands derived in
Table 2 of this Annex:-
(dry season demand) - (dry season inflow*) + (dry season evaporation)
- (18.4 - 6.9*) TMC + evaporation          )
or (520 - 195) Mm3 + evaporation           ) at full
-  11.5 TMC + 1.2 metres surface loss   ) upstream development,
or 325 Mm3 + 1.2 metres surface loss )
and       - (14.5 - 7.8*) TMC + evaporation           )
or (410 - 220) Mm3 + evaporation           ) during project
3   6.7 TMC + 1.2 metres surface loss   ) construction period.
or 190 Mm3 + 1.2 metres surface loss    )
Reservoir characteristics indicate that this requirement would be met with an
ungated spillway crest elevation of 318.5 m, (1045 ft) after due allowance for
operational losses, as shown in Fig. 2.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
1.  1!ater Oualitv
14.       Chemical analyses made over three years indicate that while the
soditum values were invarinblY low, the condluctlvity of the (odavarf river
water sometimes rises to over 1,000 micro-mhos/cm for not more than three
months.  The quialitv of the water Is, therefore, good in the high flow
season of about six months In the year, and adeqtuate for irripation use in
the remaininsg low flow seasotn. It would be satisfactory for contintuous
irrigation provi(led that the water table 1s not permitted to rlse excessively
through lack of drainage and thus prevent the removal of salt accumtulations,
particularlv In the clav loam soil areas.
June 7, 1971



INDIA: POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS & WATER DEMAND
(1WP                  (3)    (4)      (5)    (6)     (7)       (8)        (9)         (10)          (11)       (12)      (13)        (14)
CROP       Dates       Pan   Crop   Cons-   Deep   CU plus Effective Irrigation        Field    Gross Field  Distrib- Canal Head Requirement
and                 Evap'n Factor umptive Percol-   DP       rainfall Requirement Irrig.Reqt.  Irrig.Reqt.  ution               TMC/40,000 ha
Soil type                              use,   ation  (5F(6)                                                     losses %             (100,000=ac)
mm             mm      mm                 mm        mm           mm           mm                    mm      '000 M cu ft
RICE                                                                                      (85% efficy)
Clay loam     May 1-31       390    -                                                          -           100 *        4504     182        2.60      Pre-irrigation
June 1-25     264   1.3    (344)    (7)    (351)        (53)      (298)        (350)
34**   1**    35**         5         30 **        35**         75**       35%       115        1.65      Nursery
26-30      471  1.          41    2        43       11          32          38           75          35---    115        1.65
July 1-31     200   1.1      220      9       229      167          62           73          75          30%,      107       1.53
Aug. 1-31     155   1.2      186       9      195      142          53           62          75          30%       107       1.53
Sep. 1-30     142   0.9      128      9       137      120          17           20          75          25%      100        1.43
Coarse        Oct. 1-13       70   o.6       42      4        46        8          38          45           -                     -          -
Variety       Nursery period                                                       30          35          175                   297          25      Nursery
it         Field period                                                       192          226          300                   429        6.15      Field
135-day total                651     34       685      453         222        271           7                     72        10.40       Total
Oct.14-31      85   o.6       51      5        56       -           56           66          75          25%      100        1.43
Fine          Nov. 1-2        -     -                           -         -          -               -
Variety       Nursery period                                                       30           35         175                   297        4.25       Nursery
TV         Field period                                                       248          292          375                   529        7.58      Field
it         155-day total                702      39      741       453        2_7          327          550                   ___       11.o3      Total
RICE
Sandy loam    May  1-31      390    -        -      -                                                      100          45%      182        2.60       Pre-irrigation
June 1-25     264   1.3    (344)   (80)    (424)        (53)      (371)        (440)
34**   8**    42*          5**       37 **        44**         75         35%       115        1.65      Nursery
June 26-30     41   1.0       41     15               11          45          6    75 -57                       115       1.65
July  1-31    200   1.1      220     94       314      167         147          173         175          30%       250       3.58
Aug.  1-31    155   1.2      186      94      280      142         138          163         175          30%       250       3.58
Sep.  1.30    142   0.9      128     91       219      120          99          117         125          25%       167       2.39
Coarse        Oct.  1_13      70   o.6       42     40        82        8          74          87           75          25%      100        1.43
Variety       Nursery period                                                       37                      175                    297       4.25       Nursery
"i         Field period                                                       503          604          625                   882       12.63      Field
tl         135-day total                651    342       993       453         540         648          _00                  1179-      __75        Total
Fine          Oct. 14-31      85   o.6       51     54       105       -          105          124         125          25%       167       2.39
Variety       Nursery period                                                       37--7                   175                   297        4.25       Nursery
Field period                                                       608          728          750                  1049      15.02       Field    C -s
155-day total                702    396    1,098       453          T513                                                    19.27       Total o
(DH
/ Field irrigation requirement rounded-up to practical minimum of 75 mm                                                                          H H In
* Pre-irrigation (cultivation) requirement
x** Nursery rice area tak~en to be 1/10 of field crop area.



INDIA:  POCHANPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
IRRIGATION REQUTIREMENTS & WATER DEMAND
(1)       (2)        (3)    (4)    (5)      (6)     (7)       (8)        (9)         (10)          (11)        (12)      (13)        (14)
CROP      Dates       Pan   Crop   Cons-   Deep   CU plus Effective Irrigation        Field    Gross Field  Distrib-  Canal Head Requirement
and               Evap'n Factor umptive Percol-   DP        rainfall Requirement Irrig.Reqt.  Irrig.Reqt.  ution                 TMC/40,000 ha
Soil type                             use,   ation  (57)(6)                                                    losses %              (100000 ac)
mm             mm      mm                 mm        mm           mm            mm                    mm   '000 M cu ft
GROUNDNUTS                                                                                (75% efficy)
Sandy loam    Nov. 15-30   64      0.3      19       4       23         -        23           30           75         25%         100         1.43
Dec.  1-31  122      0.8     98       20     118         -       118          158           125        25%         166         2.37
Jan.  1-31  130      1.0    130       26     156         -       156          208           200        25%         265         3.80
Feb.  1-28  180      0.9    162       32     194         -       194          260           250        30%         357         5.10
Mar.  1-20  167      0.6    100       20     120         -       120          160           150        35%         232         3.32
509     10T2    7IT                  611          __ FE:                             11_20       1_C
MAIZE                                                                                     (80% efficy)
Clay loam     Nov. 15-30   64        .3     19       3       22        -         22           28           75         251%        100        1.43
Dec.  1-31  122       .8     98       15     113         -       113          141           100        25%         133         1.91
Jan.  1-31  130      1.0    130       20     150         -       150          188           175        25%         233         3.33
Feb.  1-20  128       .8    10  115                                           1 11  144     150        30%         214         3.o6
747    -5T        0 _01 -                                      520-=(75gfficy)    5
Sandy loam    Nov. 15-30   64       0.3     19       4       23         -        23           30           75         25%         100         1.43
Dec.  1-31  122      0.8     98       20     118         -       118          158           125        25%         166         2.37
Jan.  1-31  130      1.0    130       26     156         -       156          208           200        25%         265         3.80
Feb.  1-20  128      0.8    100       20     120         -       120          160           150        30%         215         30o8
377      70     717 R17 5rt575                                 550                     7hN       TO.68
CHILLIES                                                                                  (80% efficy)
Sandy loan    June 10-30  215       0.3     65      10       75       52         23          (29)           -         35%          -           -
July  1-31  200      0.5    100       15     115      166         -            -             -         30%          -           -
Aug. 1-31  155       0.7    108       16     124      142         -            -             -         30%          -           -
Sept. 1-30  142      0.9    128       19     147      120         27          (34)           -         30%          -           -
Oct.  1-31  155      1.0    155       23     178         8       170          213           200        25%         267         3.82
Nov.  1-30  127      1.1    140       21     161        -        161          200           200        25%         267         3.82
Dec.  1-31  122      o.8     98       15     113        -        113          140           150        25%         200         2.86
Jan.  1-31  130      0.5     65       10      75        -         75           94            75        25%         133         1.90
59      129    97                    9_           __                                                           C M
June 7, 1971                                                                                                                                           R   \un



I N D I A
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Demand at Main Canal Head
Water Requirements in TMC/-'
Irrigated   Seasonal
Crop               Soil Type      Area. ha     total    June   July   Aug   Sep   Oct  Nov   Dec  Jan   Feb   Mar  Apr  May
Kharif (Wet lands)
Rice, coarse      Clay loam       13,500       3.4       1.1    0.5   0.5   0.5      -     -      -     -     -      -     -   0.8
Sandy loam      6,900        2.9      0.6    o.6   o.6   0.4   0.2       -     -     -     -      -     -   0.5
Rice, fine        Clay loam        9,200       2.7       0.7    0.4   0.4   0.3   0.3      -      -     -     -      -     -   o.6
Sandy loam      4.400       2.1       0.3    0.4   0.4   0.3   0.4      -      -     -     -      -     -   0.3
34.000      11.1
Rabi (Irrigated Dry lands)
Groundnuts        Sandy loam      20,000       7.8         -      _     _      _     -   0.7   1.1   1.9   2.5   1.6       -
Maize             Clay loam        9,200        2.2        -      _     _      _     -   0.3   0.4   o.8   0.7       -
Sandy loam     26.8oo        7.2        -      _      _     _     -   1.0   1.6   2.5   2.1
36,000
Chillies
turmer'L,        Sandy loam      110,000     2.9 9                     - -        0.9   0.9   0.7   0.3      -      -           -
20.1
Totals                            100.000      31.2       2.8   j1.   1.9  1j    1.8    2.9  3.9    v          _2  1.6      -   2.2
Accumul ted total canal head demand, year:                2.8    4.6   6.5   7.9   9.8  12.7  16.6  22.1  27.4  29.0  29.0  31.2
if   II   if  It    Dec-f5ay 2/                                                   3.9   9.4  14.6  16.2  16.2  18.4
I    I    I I   I     Jan-May 3/                                                       5.5  10.7  12.3  12.3  14.5
1/ TMC = thousand million cubic ft.  1 TMC -8.31 Mm3  and = 23,000 ac ft.                                                       5 f
7/ Dry season demand at fall development, see iigure 1'. 
1/ Dry season demand in period of lowest recorded inflow (reservoir storage release period), see Figure 1.






INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
INDIAN FISCAL/PROJECT YEAR             4 -         I -       D          2       -3-      -    3                     4 --- 5-
1 971                1 972                1973                  1974                   1975                  1976
z                    z                     z                     z                     Z                     z
POCHAMPAD DAM                                                                                                       9 0  0 Z    _  Z
MASONRY SPILLWAY ......................_ 
CREST ELEVATION,                              a                    o                     o                     o                     o 
METERS ABOVE DATUM .--.--.-309  Z                             311  Z                313  0               313  0                316   O              318.5  Z
z                    z                     z                                             
EARTH EMBANKMENT                              0                    0                     0. Z...  -  Z  -°-  Z  
TOP ELEVATION, MIN.                                                                      I0
METERS ABOVE DATL    T .323                                   325                  327                   329                   332                    334
SLUICE GATES         . . 
MAIN CANAL
EXCAVATIO N .                  .
Km. COMPLETED ...........................  35                56                    7                     2                    113
STRUCTURES         . . . 
TUNNEL (KM 84 - 85) ._.
LINING ... ..........................-....._
Km. COMPLETED ...........................                     3                    45                    6                     90                   110
DISTRIBUTARIES _...          ...
HA. COMMANDED, 1,000.                    16                   32                                          74                    100
WATERCOURSES            . .      _...
HA. SERVED, 1,0005s;
KHARIF AREAS ................................  2                         10                               21          |                               34
RABI AREAS    .................................  _             2                     6                    23                    36                    66
DRAINAGE ._.
LAND LEVELI4G &
BLINDING
HA. CCMPLETED,1,000s,,---, ......         1                    12                   24                    44           1        70                   100
ROADS               .. .............
NEW, Km. COMPLETED .................                          30                    130                  295                    400                  460
AGRICULTURAL
SUPPORTING SERVICES
IRRIGATION TRAINING CENTER.
DEMONSTRATION FARMS ...
5-YR PLAN PERIOD        44----                        4TH PLAN                          '                         - 5TH PLAN
> >
oZ
IBRD - 5642(R)






ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA: POCHAMPAD TRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates, First Phase Works
Project Cost      Total                        Project Cost       Total
Expenditure     April, 1971   Completion        Expenditure    April, 1971    Completion
prior to       through         Cost             prior to       through         Cost
April, 1971     June  1976    First Phase       April, 1971    June  1976    First Phase
--------------Rs million- -------------  -------------      -        _LI
1.  Pochampad Dam:
Reservoir land acquisition       29.0            45.5          74.5                3.9             6.1         10.0
Resettlement                      1.9             2.4           4.3                0.2             0.3          0-5
Civil works                      73.0            43.2         116.2                9.7             5.8         15.5
Buildings & services             12.7             1.6          14.3                1.7             0.2          1.9
Equipment                        17.0            10.5          27.5                2.3             1.4          3.7
Engineering & administration     16.2            20.0          36.2                 2.2            2.6          4.8
Sub-total                     149.8           123.2         273.0               20.0            16.4         36.4
2. Water Distribution System:
Main canal;
Land acquisition                  4.0             1.1           5.1                0.5             0.2          0.7
Excavation & structures          57.6           127.0         184.6                 7.7           16.9         24.6
Lining                              -            75.0          75.0                  -            10.0         10.0
Buildings & services              7.1             2.5           9.6                 0.9            0.3          1.2
Equipment                        19.8            28.6          48.4                 2.7            3.8          6.5
Engineering & administration      8.2             9.8          18.0                 1.1            1.3          2.4
Sub-total, main canal          96.7           244.0         340.7                12.9           32.5         45.4
Distribution canals & drainage;
Land acquisition                  1.6             2.8           4.4                 0.2            0.4          o.6
Construction                      9.3            60.1          69.4                 1.2            8.0          9.2
Equipment                         0.5             2.0           2.5                 0.1            0.3          0.4
Engineering & administration      3.8            12.7          16.5                 0.5            1.7          2.2
Sub-total distributaries       15.2            77.6          92.8                 2.0           10.4         12.4
3. Road Deveopment:
I^-  acquisi3ftaon                 -             2.3            2.3                 -              0.3          0.3
Construction & improvements        -             26.3          26.3                  -             3.5          3.5
Engineering & administration       -              2.1           2.1                  -             0.3          0.3
Sub-total                        -             30.7          30.7                  -             4.1          4.1
Equipment                          -              7.3           7.3                  -             1.0          1.0
Sub-total                        -             38.0          38.0                  -             5.1          5.1
4.  Supporting Services:                                                                          - .  -----
rraiming & demonstration facilities-              0.9           0.9                  -             0.1          0.1
Studies & services                  -             1.0           1.0                  -             0.1          0.1
'quipment & vehicles               -              4.0           4.0                 _              0.6          o.6
Sub-total                         -             5.9           5.9                  -             0.8          O.b
5. &ontiAogncies:
Physical  -                                      25.1          25.1                  -             3.3          3.3
Price escalation                    -            39.5          39.5                  _             5.3          5.3
Sub-total                        -             64.6          64.6                  -             8.6          8.6
Total Cost of Project         261.7           553.3         815.0               34.9            73.7        108.6
to Government
(excluding on-farm
development)
6. On-farm Development:
Land levelling & bunding          o.6           129.0         129.6                 0.1           17.2         17.3
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               262.3           682.3         944.6                35.0           91.0         126.0
(including on-farm- = _                                           _                                               -
development)



INDIA:  POCHAMPAD  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
Detailed Cost Estimates and Expenditure Schedule for first phase works
J.D.A.    P REO J E C T   Y E A R                                                                   Total
(1)          (2)         (3)        (4)          (5)        (5-)    Project Cost  Project Cost Elements   Completion
Expenditure  April '71  April '72  April '73  April '74  April '75  April '76    April '71             Local        Foreign        Cost          Remarks
prior ti    through    through    through    through    through    through             through    Curree-y       Exehange  first phase
April, 1571_March '72  Marsh '73  March '74  March '75  M4arch '76   June '76    June '76
-----------------------------------------------------  Rupees Million  -----------------------------------------------------
1.  Pochampad Eas
Reservoir:
Land acquisition                 29.0         10.0         10.0        8.o        15.5         2.0          -          45.5           45.5           -          74.5   Incl.solatium  (Rs.9.8M) Excl.admin.
Resettlement                      1.9          0.5         0.5         0.5         0.5         0.4         -             2.4           2.2          0.2          4 3
Civil wnrks                         73.0          9.8         9.8         5.5        8.8          7.2        2.1          43.2          38.9          4.3        116.2
Buildings                            7.8          0.2         0.2         0.1          -           -          -            0.5           0.5           -            8.3
Services                             4.9          0.3         0.3         0.3         0.2          -          -            1.1           1.0          0.1          6.o
Equipment:
Tmported, with spares              -           1.5         3.7           -         0.3         0.2          -            5-7           0.2          5.5          5.7   Incl. freight to site
Customs duties                      -          0.2          0.5          -         0.1           -          -            0.8           o.8           -           0.8
Miner equipnent                  17.0          1.0         1.0         1.0         1.0           -          -            4.0           3.0          1.0         21.0
Engineering & administration        16.2          4.0               4.o   4.0          .e         3.0        1.3          20.0          20.0                       36.2
Sub total for dam                 149.8          27.5        30.0        19.4        30.4        12.8        3.1         123.2         112.1         11.1        273.0
2. Water Distribution & Drain-
age Systems
Main Canal:
Land acquisition                  4.o          o.4         0.4         0.3          -           -          -            1.1            1.1           -           5.1
Excavation 1. structures         57.6         28.3        28.5        28.1        32.5         9.6          -         127.0          114.3         12.7        184.6
Lining                             -          10.0        15.0        15.0        15.0        15.0         5.0          75.0          67.5          7.5         75.0
Buildings                          5.5          0.4         0.2        0.1          -            -          -            0.7           0.7           -           6.2
Services                          1.6          o.6         o.6         o.6          -           -          -            1.8            1.6          0.2          3.4
Equipment and materials
Imported with spares             -           2.0         5.8         5.7         4.y          - _                    18.2           0.9          17.3         18.2    SIcl. freight to site
Customs duties                   -           0.2         1.4         1.1         0.3          -          -            3.0           3.0            -           3.0
Minor equipment                19.8          2.0         1.5         1.5         1.4         1.0         _            7,4           5.6          1,8          27.2
Engineering & administration    8.2            2.1          2.2        2.2         2.0         1.0         0.3           9.8           9.8           _          18.0
Sub total for main canal         96.7         46.o        55.6        54.6        55.9        26.6         5.3         244.o         204.5         39.5        340.7
Distribution Canals and Drainage:
Land acquisition                  1.6          0.8          1.0        1.0          -            -          -            2.8           2.8           -           4.4
Branch & disty. canals            8.1          6.5        12.0        12.3        13.2         4.o          -          48.o           45.6          2.4         56.1
Field channels                    0.2           o.4        1.0         o.6         2.0         2.3         1.0          7.3            7.3           -           7.5    Recoverable through revenue
Drainage channels                   -            -         0.4          0.3        o.8         1.0          -           2.5            2.5           -           2.5
Bridges                           0.1          0.1          0.2        0.2         0.5          0.7         -           1.7            1.5          0.2          1.8
Buildings                          0.9          0.3         0.2         0.1          -           -          -            o.6           o.6           -           1.5
Equipment (indigenous)            0.5          0.2          0.4         0.4        o.6          0.4         -            2.0           1.5          0.5          2.5
Engineering & administration    3.8             2.5         2,5         2.5         2.2         2.0        1.0          12.7          12.7           -          16.5
Sub total for distribution
system                         15.2         10.8        17.7        17.4        19.3        io.4        2.0          77.6          74.5           3.1         92.8
3. Road Development
Land acquisition                      -            -          1.0         1.3          -           -          -            2.3           2.3            -          2.3
Construction                          -            -          2.5         7.2         9.4         7.2         -           26.3          23.7          2.6         26.3
Engineering & administration          -           0.1         0.2         0.5         o.8         0.5         -            2.1           2.1            -           2.1
Sub-total, road construction        -          0.1          3.7         9.0       10.2          7.7         -           30.7          28.1          2.6         30.7
Maintenance equipment:                                                                                                                                             6.4   Incl. freight to aite
Imported with spares                -            -           -          4.3          -          2.1                      6.4           o.4          6.6
Customs duties                      -                                  o -  i.6      -         0.3          -            0.9           0.9           -           0.9
Sub-total                           -            -           -          4.9          -          2.4         -            7.3           1.3          6.o          7.3
Sub-totals carried forward         261.7         84.4       107.0       105.3       115.8        59.9       1C.4         482.8         420.5         62.3        744.5



Detailed Cost Estimates and Expenditure Schedule for first phase works (continued)
I.D.A.    P R O J E C T   Y E A R                                                               Total
(1)         (2)        (3)         (4)        (5)        (5+)    Project Cost  Project Cost Elements   Completion
Expenditure  April '71  April '72  April '73  April '74 April '75  April '76    April '71          Local       Foreign       Cost          Remarks
prior to    through    through    through    through    through    through         through    Cim rency     Exchange  first phase
April, 1971  March '72  March '73  March '74  March '75  March '76   June '76    June '76
---------------------------------------------------         Rupees Million ----------------------                             ---------
Sub totals brought forward      261.7        84.4        107.0    105.3         115.8       59.9       10.4        482.8        420.5         62.3       744.5
4. Supporting Services
Trrigation training center         -           -           0.2        -            -          -           -          0.2          0.2            -         0.2
Demonstration farms                -            -          0.4       0.3           -          -           -          0.7          0.7            -         0.7
Agricultural studies               -            -          0.1       0.1           -          -           -          0.2          0.2            -         0.2
Groundwater investigation equip.  -            -           0.1       0.1           -          -           -          0.2          0.2            -         0.2
Extension service vehicles         -            -          0.5       0.5           -          -           -          1.0          0.2           0.8        1.0
Photo mapping                      -          0.5          0.3        -      -                -           -          0.8          0.5           0.3        o.8
Ehotographic mapping equipment     -           -           2.8        --                                 -           2.8          0.5          2.3         2.8       Incl. customs duty
Sub total for supporting services-            0.5          4,4       1.0                -           -                5.9          2.5          3.4         5.9
Total, items 1 through 4        261.7        84.9        111.4     106.3       115.8        59.9       10.4        488.7        423.0         65.7       750.4      Rs. 450M  in 4th Plan
5. Contingencies
Physical (works):
Pochampad dam (5%)               _          0.5          0.5       0.3          o.4        0.4        0.1          2.2          2.0          0.2         2.2
Main canal (10%)                 -          3.0          3.0       3.0          3.0        1.0          -         13.0         11.7          1.3        13.0
Distribution system (10%)        -          o.6          1.2       1.2          1.3        0.4          -          4.7          4.5          0.2         4.7
Roads (10%)                      -           -           0.5       1.4          1.9        1.4          -          5.2          4.7          0-5         5,2
Sub total                        -          4.1          5.2       5.9          6.6        3.2         0.1        25.1         22.9           2.2       25.1       Rs. 15.2Min 4th Plan
Price escalation:
Equipment (7% per annum)                     -           1.2       2.0          1.9        1.0          -          6.1          2.0          4.1         6.1
Labor & materials (5% peranrLm)              -           3.8       7.2         11.9        8.0         2.5        33.4         30.1           3.3       33.4
Sub total                        -           _           5.0       9.2         13.8        9.0         2.5        39.5         32.1          7.4        39.5       Rs. 14.2M in 4th Plan
Sub total for contingencies        -          4.1         10.2      15.1         20.4       12.2         2.6        64.6         55.0          9.6        64.6
Total, items 1 through 5        261.7        89.0        121.6     221,4        136,2       72.1        13.0       553.3        478.0         75.3       815.0      For.Exoh. elment exciu-.
ding roadi construction.
6. On-farm Development                                                                                                                                                                Rs.72.7M
Land leveling and bunding         o.6        11.0         14.0      40.0         22.0       32.0        10.0       129.0        129.0                    129.6       Includes contingencies
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS           262.3       100.0        135.6     261.4        158.2      104.1        23.0       682.3        607.0         75.3       944.6
w <



ANNEX 7
Page 4
I N D I A
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Imported Materials and Equipment Requirements
Item                     Quantity   Unit    Estimated Cost, C.I.F.
Rs '000     US$ '000
I.    Imported Equipment unsuitable for
International Competitive Bidding
(a)  Ortho photo mapping and associated
equipment with consumable supplies
and spares                                       Lot        2,325          310
(b)  Contingencies                                                 375           5o
Sub Total for I   2,700           360
II.   Equipment and Materials to be pro-
cured by International Competitive
Bidding
Eluipment:
(a)  Mobile concrete batching plants,
compactors, crushers and
associated equipment with spares
for lining main canal                            Lot        3,000          400
(b)  Mobile crane, truck-mounted, 10-ton
capacity, with 25% spare parts          1        No.          250           33
(c)  Equipment transporters (Low-loaders)
25-ton capacity, self-propelled, with
15% spare parts                         2        No.          415           55
(cl) Mobile workshop and equipment           2        No.          460           62
(e)  Visual aid demonstration van            1        No.          115           15
(f)  General purpose 4-wheel drive
vehicles, with 15% spare parts         20        No.          525           70
(g) Road maintenance equipment, with
15% spare parts                                  Lot       4,050          540
(h)  Contingencies                                               1,125          150
aib Total (a) to (h) 9,940          1,325



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Item                 Quantity      Unit   Estimated Cost, C.I.F.
Rs '000    US$ '000
II. (continued)
Equipment and Materials to be pro-
cured by International Competitive
Bidding
Materials:
(i)  Explosives                         1,500        tons      4,500          600
(j)  High-tensile ribbed steel
reinforcing bars                   3,000        tons      4,500          600
(k) High-tensile structural
steel parts and sections           1,000       tons       1,990          265
(1)  Concrete curing compound                        Lot       1,125          150
(m)  Contingencies                                             1,495          200
Sub Total (i) to (m)      13,610       1,815
Sub Total for II          23,550       3,140
III. Spare Parts unsuitable for
International Competitive Bidding
(a) Supplementary spares for
equipment listed in II above
during project period                                     4,160         555
(b) Spares required for existing
plant and machinery                                       4,500          600
(c)  Contingencies                                             1,090          145
Sub Total for III          9,750       1,300
Total of I, II and III   36,000        4,800
June 7, 1971






ANNEX 8
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization
1. (i) Composition of High Power Committee (by Government Order 190, 2 Ju.ne, 1970):
1.  Minister for Irrigation                        Chairman
2.  Secretary, Public Works Department             Member
3. Member, Board of Revenu.e & Commissioner
for Development of Ayacu.ts                 Member
4. Financial Advisor                               Member
5.  Chief Engineer, Pochampad Project              Member
6.  Depu.ty Secretary, PWD., Projects Wing         Convenor
In addition to the above members, the Secretaries to Government
in the Planning, Food and Agriculture and Finance Departments will be
permanent special invitees for the meetings of the High Power Committee.
Heads of the Departments whose presence is considered necessary
by the Member, Board of Revenue in charge of Development of Ayacu.ts,
and the Special Collector, Pochampad Project, may also be invited for
the meetings of the Committee.
(ii) Functions of High Power Committee
(a)  Review of programme and progress on (i) construction works
(Dam and Canals system) (ii) Schemes for development of
Ayacu.t.
(b)  Consideration of measures to ensure the creation of irriga-
tion potential and its utilization as per programme.
2.   (i)  Composition of State Level Committee (by Government Order 26, 24 Jan, 1970):
1)   Member, Board of Revenue and Commissioner
for Development of Ayacuts, Hyderabad              Chairman
2)   Secretary to Government, PWD                       Member
3)   Secretary to Government, Food and Agriculture
Department                                           -do-
4)   Secretary to Government, Finance Department          -do-
5)   Financial Adviser, Pochampad Project                 -do-
6)   Director of Agricu.lture                              -do-
7)   Registrar of Co-operative Societies                  -do-
8)   Chief Engineer, Pochampad Project                     -do-
9)   Special Collector, Pochampad Project                 -do-
10)  Collector, Karimnagar                                -do-
11)  Collector, Nizamabad                                 -do-
12)  Chairman, Zillaparishad, Nizamabad                   -do-
13)  Chairman Zillaparishad, Karimnagar                   -do-
14)  President, A.P.Central Co-operative Land
Mortgage Bank                                        -do-
15)  Joint Registrar of Co-operative Societies/
Liaison Officer for Projects                       Member/Convenor.






ANNEX 8
Page 2
Secretary, Board of Revenue, Chief Conservator of Forests,
Director of Animal Husbandry, Inspector General of Registration
and Stamps and any other official or non-official connected with
the development of Ayacut may be invited as and when their pre-
sence is considered necessary.
(ii) Function of State Level Committee
The main functions of the State Level Committee shall be
allocation of specific tasks to the various departments connected
with the development of Ayacut, coordination of the executive
measures undertaken by the Department concerned, and securing of
their performance according to an agreed programme of development
of Ayacut.
3.   (i)  Composition of District Level Committee for each of the Nizamabad
and Karimnagar Districts:  (by Government Order 26, 24 Jan, 1970):
1.   District Collector                                 Chairman
2.   Special Collector, Pochanpad Project               Member
3.   Superintending Engineer, Godavari valley Circle,
No.1, Pochampad Project                            Member
4.   Superintending Engineer, Canals, Pochampad
Project                                              -do-
5.   Joint Registrar/tiaison Officer for Projects         -do-
6.   Joint Director of Agriculture                        -do-
7.   Deputy Director of Agriculture                     Member/Convenor
8.   President, A.P. Central Co-operative Land
Mortgage Bank or his nominee                       Member
9.   President of the Primary Land Mortgage Bank of
the areas in the concerned District                  -do-
10.  Members of the Legislature of the District under
Pochampad Project area                             Members
11. Presidents of Panchayat Samithis of the
District in the Pochampad Project area             Members
(ii)  Function of District Level Committee
The District Level Committee shall review the various aspects
of development of Ayacuts and solve the various problems that
might crop up during the course of review.
4.   (i)  Composition of Rehabilitation Committee for Pochampad Project
(by Government Order 446, 27 Dec., 1968):
1.   Member, Board of Revenue in charge of
Rehabilitation                                     Chairman
2.   Superintending Engineer, Pochampad Dam             Member
3.   Special Collector, Pochampad Project               Member/Convenor
4.   Chairman, Zillaparishad,  Nizamabad                Member
5/7   3 Members of Legislative Assembly                    -do-
(ii) Function of Rehabilitation Committee
To review and ensure smooth and expeditious implemen-
tation of the rehabilitation policy and program.
June 7, 1971






ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDTA
POCIAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Grain Storage, Agricultural Processnand Lar keti
Grain Storatge
1.        Major crops to be produced in the Project area are paddy, othler
foodgrains, mainly maize and sorghum, and groundnuts. Total estimated
paddy production from the Project would be around 136,000 tons. In addi-
tion, some 60,000 tons of paddy would be produced on lands irrigated from
tanks. Other foodgrain production would amount to about 165,000 tons while
groundnut output would be about 24,000 tons annuallv.  Production from dry
farming lands on high-lying ground which cannot be commanded by the system
and from non-irrigated rabi lands was assumed to be used exclusively to
meet animal feed requirements in the area. All production figures presented
herein are at full agricultural development, four years after completion of
Project works.
2.        The number of farming units in the gross Project area is esti-
mated to be 67,000 and the projected population at full development at
around 300,000. Using a projected per capita consumption figure for cereals
and pulses of 200 kg per annum, consumption on the farm at full development
would amount to about 60,000 tons annually (100,000 tons of paddy equiva-
lent). Marketable foodgrain and groundnut surpluses from the Project area
would thus be around 285,000 tons annually. Although it is impossible
to determine without further investigations the optimum size and location
of individual storage facilities, overall storage requirements in the area
can be conservatively estimated to be at least 90,000 tons. The only sig-
nificant storage facility presently available in the area is a 15,000-ton
godown at Karimnagar.
3.        Storage facilities would be required at the district, taluk and
villape levels. At the district level large godowns required to build up
the national buffer stocks would be provided by the COT's Central Warelhous-
ing Corporation and the Food Corporation of India. Requirements at the
taluk level would be met by the Andhra Pradesh State Warehousing Corpora-
tion, an autonomous public corporation. Finally, small godowns would be
constrtucted at the village level by the panchayats (local administrative
councils) and the cooperatives. There are no plans at present to expand
storape facilities at the district and village level.  At the talulc level
it is proposed that the State Warehousing Corporation would construct
during the next five years 10 godowns of 2,000 ton capacity each at an
overall cost of Rs 2 million.  Before undertaking such a construction
program it would be necessary to investigate in dletail the optimum size and
location of future storage facilities and the likelv role of the private
sector in constructing godowns.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Agricultural Processing
4..       Rice Mills.  It is expected that some 58 new rice mills of 1 ton
per hour capacity would be required to handle the expected increase in paddy
production. Assuming each mill to have an annual milling capacity of 1,500
tons, the rate of new mill construction would have to be roughly as follows:
Area Under
Paddy      Paddy       New Rice Mill
Year                                    Cultivation Production   Requirements
(ha)       (tons)   Annual Cumulative
1971/72                                     2,000       2,500       1        1
1972/73                                    10,000      20,000      12       13
1973/74                                    16,000      40,000      14       27
1374i75                                    28,000      50,000       6       33
1975/76                                    34,000      90,000      27       60
1976/77 (End of construction period)    34,000    110,000          13       73
1978/79 (Full agricultural development) 34,000    135,000          -        90
The State Government expects two-thirds of the required new mills to be
constructed by the private sector and the remaining by cooperatives. Thus,
out of the 73 new mills reqjuired during the Project construction period,
about 24 mills at an estimated total cost of Rs 7 million would have to be
established in the cooperative sector.
5.        Groundnuts Oil Mills.  As proposed by Government, new oil mills
to process the additional groundnut production in the area would each have
a crushing capacity of 2,500 tons per annum. With this size mill and the
expected incremental groundnut production, the rate of new oil mill con-
struction would have to be roughly as follows:
Area Under
Groundnuts  Groundnuts   New Oil Mill
Year                                    Cultivation Production   Requirements
(ha)      (tons)   Annual Cumulative
1972/73                                     1,500       1,000     -          -
1973/74                                     4,500       3,000     1          1
1974/75                                     8,500       7,000     2          3
1975/76                                    14,000      10,000     1          4
1976/77 (End of construction period)    20,000         19,000     4          8
1979/80 (Full agricultural development) 20,000         24,000     -         10
Eight new oil mills would be required during the Project construction per-
iod.  Out of these eight, the Government proposes to construct five in the
cooperative sector at an estimated cost of Rs 2.0 million.
6.        Maize Processing.  The Government proposes to establish a factory
in the area to manufacture starch from maize using a wet milling process



ANNEX 9
Page 3
and to manufacture maize flour using a drv millitng process. 1lie factorv
would be able to process about 80 tons of maize daily and would cost around
Rs 6.0 million.
Marketin,
7.        Farmers in Andhra Pradesh usuallv sell their surplus produce
through regulated markets established by Government. All products in these
markets are auctioned off under the supervision of a market committee thus
ensuring farmers a fair return for their produce. Despite the existence of
five regulated markets in the area, farmers at present prefer to sell their
produce in the two major marketing centers, Nizamabad and Warangal, located
immediatelv to the east and west of the Project area. This preference is
due in part to the fact that the existing markets are ill-equipped to per-
form their function, and somewhat higher prices can be obtained in the
larger, better developed, markets. There is also a desire on the part of
the farmers and their wives to combine their trip to the market with a
visit to the "big city". As the volume of production increases, a larger
portion of the surplus commodities would be sold in markets located inside
the Project area. In order to accommodate such an increase in sales, the
Government nroposes to expand and to improve the five existing markets while
also constructing secondary marketing facilities in smaller trade centers.
Aside from the new marketing facilities, the Government would also appoint
additional staff to the Marketing Department at the regulated market, taluk,
district and State level.
June 7, 1971






ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Support Program
1.        Chapter V of this report outlines the need for agricultuiral ex-
tension and research staff together with the demonstration, monitoring,
training and service facilities considered necessary to enable farmers in
the project area to develop agricultural production to its full potential
as soon as possible after the provision of irrigation water to thelr fields.
This Annex gives in greater detail the minimum suipport program required to
achieve the benefits of the Project.
Agricultuiral Research
2.        Although agricultural research is nowx the responsibility of the
Agricultural University at Hlyderabad, the research staff on the 40 ha ex-
perimental farm to be established in the area would be under the adminis-
trative control of the Joint Director of Agriculture in charge of the
Project. The research program on the farm would concentrate on problems of
irrigated agriculture peculiar to the Project and would he worked out
jointly between the Joint Director and the Director of Research of the
UJniversitv. It would include investigations of crop water andl drainage
requirements which would necessitate adequate monitoring of water table
behavior throughout the Project area; testing of new crop varieties and
their optimum fertilizer requirements, together with strict entomological
and pathological observations; and testing of techniques for the efficient
management and control of irrigation water in the field. The team of
scientists to be posted to the farm would include experienced men in all
relevant disciplines, and particularly in irrigation agronomy.  They would
have full liaison with and cooperation from the existing research staff at
Rudrur Research Station and on the Karimnagar experiment farm.
3.        Subject matter specialists for work within the Project area
should also be stationed on the farm.  These men wouldl be responsible for
translating research results to the extension staff of the Project, and
for keeping them fully up to date with progress on the different probleTns
being stu(died. They would also be responsible for channeling back to the
research staff problems that arise in the field that need further investiga-
tion. Their main function would be to give expert advice in their disci-
pline to field workers and farmers as and when problems arise that are beyond
the specific knowledge of the extension staff.
4.        A further important function of the researchi farm staff would be
to monitor progress in all aspects of agricultural production within the
Project. In addition to groundwater and water table observations, informa-
tion on yield levels of all crops and progress in the assimilation of the



ANNEX 10
Page 2
various input programs and the adequacy of services such as credit, market-
ing, processing and storage should be regularly obtained and recorded. A
separate staff of economists and agronomists would be required for this
function.
Ext:ension Services
5.        At present, extension work in the Project area is carried out by
the local district agricultural staff. These consist of one Deputy
Director, at Karimnagar; two District Agricultural Officers stationed at
Karimnagar and Jagtial; two subject matter specialists, Plant Protection
and! Agronomy; Agricultural Extension Officers at the rate of about one
per 20 villages; and village level workers at the rate of one per 10 vil-
lages. All these men are graduates with the exception of the village level
workers. Those working at District level have responsibilities for those
areas of the District outside the Project area as well as for those within
the! canal command. The agricultural staff work in close liaison with the
District Administration under the District Collector, and with the local
Government "panchayats".
6.        In addition to the normal district staff, there are the following
staff appointed for work specificallv within Pochampad Project:
8 Block Development Officers:
3 Agricultural Extension Officers (Demonstration);
2 Soil Conservation Officers;
10 Assistant Soil Conservation Officers;
--   30 Sub-Assistant Soil Conservation Officers;
2 District Agriculturist Officers (Localization)l/;
--- 8 Assistant Agriculturist Officers (Localization);
--   1 Soil Chemist with 4 Assistants: and
--   1 District Manager, Agro-Industries with 1 Assistant plus
a unit of tractors and bulldozers.
7.        The level of staff within the Project area would have to be in-
creased at least to that of the Intensive Agricultural District Program
(I.A.D.P.) level. This is a verv high level of extension staffing that
has been accepted by the Government of India for operation in specially
selected areas of exceptional promise and potential.
1/   Localization is the term used for allocating lands to "wet" (rice), or
"drv" (drv crops) areas for irrigation.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
Training
8.        The provision of additional staff for work on the Project will
not pose problems of basic training. The Agricultural University at Hyder-
abad turns out annually 400 graduates at B.Sc. level and 100 M.Sc. grad-
uates.  At present, there are 1967 and 1968 graduates still seeking em-
ployment. However, for specialized training in irrigated agriculture under
Pochampad conditions, it would be necessary to provide short courses for
such entrants to the service as well as providing refresher courses for
established staff. Such requirements would be met by providing a Farm
Institute attached to the experimental farm to be established within the
Project, together with additional land for teaching purposes. The Institute
would also be able to provide selected farmers with irrigation and other
specified training courses of a few weeks' duration throughotut the year when
staff training had been completed, and it would provide a suitable venue
for periodic staff refresher courses throughout the life of the Project.
It would require dormitorv and feeding accommodation for visiting farmers and
staff. The staff for such an institute would be under the control of the
Joint Director of Agriculture for Pochampad Project.
9.        In addition to the proposed Farm Instittute, three demonstration
farms won1id be set up in the Project area to demonstrate irrigation tech-
niques and new cropping practices to the farmers in their vicinity.
June 7, 1971






ANNEX I 1
- I N D I A
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present Cropping Pattern, Yields, Production Costs and Returns (without project)
Gross Value                 Net Value   Net Retu /.
Cropped           Farm Gate        of         Production        of          from
Area    Yield    Price    Production-/    Costs.2/   Production  Project Area
(ha)   (ton/ha)(Rs/ton)      -------------   Rs h   -- _____-_   (Rs million)
Kharif
Rainfed:
Pulses                         33,000    0.4         800           320          200           120           4.0
Maize, jowar                   25,000    0.8         560           450           220          230           5.7
Sesamum                        12,000    0.3       1,500           450          200           250           3.0
Groundnuts                      6,000    0.7       1,000           700          300           400           2.4
Sub-total,Kharif            76,000                                                                      137-
Rabi
Irrigated:
Chillies  turmeric              7,000      -          -          3,000        1,400         1,600          11.2
Rainfed:
Foodgrains & Fodder            27,000      -          -            250          200            50           1.3
Sub-total,Rabi              34 000                                                                       12.5
Total, project area        110,000.2                                                                     27.6-
Projected Cropping Pattern, Yields, Production Costs and Returns (with project)
Kharif
Irrigated:
Paddy                          34,000    4.0         650        .2,600          960        1,640           55.8
Rainfed:
Pulses                          9,000    0.4         800           320          200           120           1.1
Maize, jowar                   12,000    0.8         560           450           220          2-30         i2.7
Sesamum                        10,000    0.3       1,500           450          200           250           2.5
Groundnuts                      5,000    0.7       1,000           700          300           400           2.0
Sub-total, Kharif           70,000                                                                       64.1
Rabi
Irrigated:
Maize                          36,000    3.7         56Q         2,072           870        1,202          43.3
Groundnuts                     20,000    1.5       1,000         1,500          650           850          17.0
Chillies, turmeric             10,000       -         -          3,300        1,400        1,900           19.0
Sub-total Irrigated Rabi  66,000
Rainfed:
Fodder                         19000        -                      250           200           50           1.0
Sub-total,Rabi              8                                                                            80.3
Total, project area        155,000i/                                                                    144.4
Less net return without project                                                                        27.6
Incremental net return with project                                                                     116.8
1/ Based on a weighted average of maize and sorghum for kharif and rabi foodgrains; and chillies and
turmeric for commercial crops.
2/ Weighted averag& for all project farms excluding taxes, water charges and family labor contribution
3/  Cropping intensity:  110% (total cropped area, 110,000 ha;  net cultivated area, 100,000 ha).
4!  Cropping intensity:  155% (total cropped area, 155,000 ha;  net cultivated area, 1QO,000 ha).
5/ Projected yields four years after the introduction or irrigation.
June 7, 1971






ANNEX 12
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Charges for Water and other Levies
1.        Construction and maintenance of irrigation projects in India is
a responsibility of the State Governments, which also exercise the right to
impose and collect water charges and other levies on agricultural activi-
ties from the cultivators. In Andhra Pradesh, the level of these levies
varies from project to project depending largely upon soil fertility and
the type of irrigation facilities available in the area. Actual rates are
determined according to the season in which cultivation takes place, rather
than the type of crop produced. As presently proposed by Government, four
separate imposts would be in effect in the Project area. Annual collections
through these imposts would be as follows:
Proposed Level of Charges    Estimated
Project Area    Land   Local Water Betterment Total Annual
UJnder Irriation Revenue  Cess  Cess   Levy /I   Collections
(ha)       -------------Rs/ha------------ (Rs millions)
Kharif crops          34,000         50.0   12.5   -       31.2          3.2
Rahi crops            f66,0          13.8    3.4  25.0    15.6           3.8
TOTAL:          100,000                                             7.0
/1   The figure above represents 1/20 of the total betterment levy which
would be collected in equal annual installments over a 20-year period.
As presently proposed, the levy would amount to Rs 625.0 and Rs 312.5
for kharif and rabi irrigated lands, respectively, per ha.
2.        Based on the above figures, collections from the Project area
would amount to Rs 233 million over the assumed 45-year productive life
period of the Project. After deducting annual operations and maintenance
costs of the irrigation system, this amount would enable recovery of about
18% of Government monies invested in the Project (Rs 810 million). However,
if the costs of the dam and of the lined main canal are proportionately
allocated to sujbsequent stages of the Project, the respective cost of these
features to be charged against the first phase is reduced by about Rs 510
million, and recovery of the investment without interest increases to 52%
of the proportional capital cost to Government (about Rs 300 million).  While
even this recovery level is low, it would nevertheless result from increased
collections of presently authorized taxes and levies in the project area,
which would rise from the present level of Rs 10 per ha to Rs 70 per ha.



ANNEX 1 2
Page 2
3.        To recover the whole first phase pronortional capital cost of
about Rs 30n  million over 45 ye,trs without interest in addition to the oneration
and maintenance cost, a further increase in annual charges of Rs 30 per ha
wou:ld be necessary throughiotit the sname period, producing total annual
col'lections averagLng Rs 100 per ha.
June 7, 1971



ANNEX 13
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budgets
1.        Farm budgets for typical small (0.6 ha), medium (4.0 ha) and
large (9.0 ha) farms are given in Tables 1-5.
2.        The cropping pattern and production shown are those which are
expected in the late 1970's "without" and "with" the project: in the latter
case, the production is that expected at full development, four years after
completion of the irrigation supply to the farm. Alternative cropping
patterns are given for the 0.6 ha farms since, even allowing for fragment-
ation, it is unlikely that such a small unit would be distributed over "wet"
and "irrigated dry" lands (see para 4.06). For the mediuim and large farms,
the cropping pattern assumes that the holding is distributed between "wet"
and "dry" lands in proportion to the average for the prolect (1/3 wet,
2/3 dry).
3.        The farmgate prices used in calculating the Gross Value of
Production (GVP) are gi.ven in Annex 11 and are the same for the "without"
and "wtth" project cases. The production costs include purchases of seed,
fertilizer and other inputs, and hired labor: no cost is included in this
item for familv labor, which supplies the following proportions of the total
labor requirement:
Farm Size        Family Labor
0.6 ha            100%
4.0 ha             50%
9.0 ha             25%
4.        Family labor is taken into account by deducting the families
subsistence cost from the GVP.  The average family is four adult equivalents,
and the daily rations assumed are 10 oz paddy (equivalent to 6 oz rice) plus
10 oz other foodgrains plus 3 oz pulses. No allowance is made for improved
diets in the "with project" budgets, nor for the fact that 9.0 ha farms
might support larger families.
5.        The farm production from the 0.6 ha farms is not sufficient to
provide the full family subsistence under "without project", rainfed
conditions. In practice the deficiency would be made up by off-farm income
(notably wages in cash or kind for work on larger farms) or from other
enterprises, such as paddy grown on land irrigated from "tanks", which would
not be affected by the project.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
6.         The farm budgets do not include payment of increased water
charges, taxes and levies.  The impact of these charges (described in para
5.1'Q) would be as follows:
Project
Cash Income                                Charges as
Farm Size        Without          With                     Projlect        % of
(ba)            Project       Project      Increment    Charges    Increment
----------------Rs---------------
0.6              Nil        655 to 840   655 to 840   55 to 75          8 to 9
4.0              995          5,140           4,145         405          9.7
9.0            2,515         10,710           8,195         905         11
June 7, 1971



ANNEX 1 3
Table 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 0.6 ha Farms
A. Localized tIWetit Land
WITHOUT PROJECT                  WITH PROJECT
Area  Produc- GVP  Prod'n       Area  Produc- GVP  Prod'n
tion          Cost              tion         Cost
(7 h    k) TT   T)  (Rs)        (ha)   (kg)   (Rs)  (Rs)
Kharif
Paddy                        -      -       -     -         0.6   2,400  1,560  320
Foodgrains                  0.2    160      90    10         -      -      -      -
Pulses                      0.2     80      65    20         -      -      - -
Sesamum                     0.1     30      45     5
Groundnuts                   -      -       -     -
Rabi
Maize                        -              -
Groundnuts                   -
Chilli, turmeric             -      -       -     -
Foodgrains & fodder         0.2   160       90    10        0.5     400    225   25
0.7            290    45        1.1          1 ,785  345
WITHOUT PROJECT                  WITH PROJECT
Rs---     - -----Rs- -
Gross value of production         290                            1,785
LESS Family subsistence           600                              600
Income from sale of produce      -310*                           1,185
LESS Production costs              -                               345
Cash income                                                        840
Incremental cash income                                         Rs 840
* Part of family subsistence from off-farm income
or from land irrigated from "tanks"



ANNEX 1 3
Table Z
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 0.6 ha Farms
B. Localized "Irrigated Dry"' Land
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECT
Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n    Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n
tion          Cost             tion          Cost
(ha)   (kg)    Rs )  (R        (ha)   (kg)  )s  (Rs)
'diarif
Paddy                       -       -       -     -         -      -       -      -
Foodgrains                  0.2    160      90    10       0.6    480     270    25
Pulses                      0.2     80      65    20        -      -       -      -
Sesamum                     0.1     30      45     5        -      -       -      -
Groundnuts                   -      -       -     -         -      -        -     -
.,abi
Maize                        -      -       -      -        -      -        -     -
Groundnuts                   -      -       -     -        0.3    450     450   100
Chilli, turmeric             -      -       -     -        0.3     -      990   320
Foodgrains & fodder         0.2    160      90    10        -      -       -      -
0.7            290    45       1.2          1,710   445
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECT
------ Rs                       -----Rs-----
Gross value of production         290                           1,710
LESS Family subsistence           600                             600
Income from sale of produce      -310*                          1,110
LESS Production costs              -                              445
Cash income                                                       665
Incremental cash income                                        Rs 665
Part of family subsistence from off-farm
income or land irrigated from "tanks"



ANNEX 13
Table 3
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 0.6 ha Farms
C. Localized 1/3 "Wet" and 2/3 "Irrigated Dry" Land
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECT
Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n    Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n
tion          Cost             tion           Cost
ha    (kg)    Rs)  (Rs)        (ha)   Tkg)   Rs)  (Rs)
Kharif
Paddy                         -      -        -     -       0.2      800    520   100
Foodgrains                   0.2    160       90    10      0.2      160     90    10
Pulses                       0.2     80      65    20        -        _      _     -
Sesamum                      0.1     30      45      5       _        _      _     _
Groundnuts                    -      -        -     -        -        -      -      -
Rabi
Maize                         -      -        -     -       0.3   1,100    615    60
Groundnuts                    -      -        -     -       0.1      150    150    30
Chilli, turmeric              -      -        -     -        -        -      -     -
Foodgrains & fodder          0.2    160      90    10       0.2      160     90    10
0.7            290    45       1.0           1j465   210
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECT
Rs-                   Rs-----
Gross value of production           290                            1,465
LESS Family subsistence             600                              600
Income from sale of produce        -310*                             865
LESS Production costs                                                210
Cash income                                                          655
Incremental cash income                                         Rs  655
* Part of family subsistence from off-farm
income or land irrigated from "tanks"



ANNEX 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 4.0 ha Farm
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECT
Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n    Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n
tion          Cost            tion           Cost
(ha)   (kg)   TRs) (Rs) (   ha)           (kg) j   s   TRs
Kharif
Paddy                          -      - -           -        1.0  4,000    2,600 1,075
Foodgrains                   1.00   800      450   265       o.60   480      270   160
Pulses                        1.35   540     430   320       0.30   120      960    70
Sesamum                      0.50   150      225   145       0.10    30       45    20
Groundnuts                    0.20   140     140    75        -      -        -
Rabi
Maize                         0.15   120     675    40       1.50 5,550    3,100 1,370
Groundnuts                     -      -       -     -        1.00 1,200    1,200   740
Chilli, turmeric             0.25    -       825   350       0.50   -      1,650   700
Foodgrains & fodder           0.85   170     215   170       1.00   200      250   200
4.30         2,960 1,365       6.00         10,075 4,335
WITHOUT PROJECT                 WITH PROJECT
-------Rs ------                -----Rs-----
Gross value of production          2,960                         10,075
LESS Family subsistence              600                            600
Income from sale of produce        2,360                          9,475
LESS Production costs              1,365                          4,335
Cash income                          995                          5,140
Incremental cash income                                        Rs 4,145



ANNEX 1 3
Table 5
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for Typical 9.0 ha Farm
WITHOUT PROJECT               WITH PROJECT
Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n   Area  Produc-  GVP  Prod'n
tion          Cost           tion          Cost
(ha    (kg)     R ) (Rs)   (ha)   (kg)   T(Rs)  (Rs
Kharif
Paddy                              -             -      2.5  10,000   6,500  3,135
Foodgrains                1.7  1,360     760  635       0.5     400     225    190
Pulses                    2.5  1,o000    800  675       1.0     400     320    270
Sesamum                   1.2    360     540   295      0.5     150     225    170
Groundnuts                0.7   490      490   300      0.5     350     350    210
Rabi
Maize                      -      -        -     -      2.0   7,400   4,145  1,320
Groundnuts                 -      -        -     -      3.0  4,500   4,500  2,625
Chilli, turmeric          1.2     -    3,960 1,680      1.5     -    4,950  2,100
Foodgrains & fodder       2.0  1,600     900   750      1.5   1,200     675    560
9.3          7',13 4,33'    13.0           21, 10,
WITHOUT PROJECT               WITH PROJECT
Rs-                               Rs-----
Gross value of production      7,450                        21,890
LESS Family subsistence          600                           600
Income from sale of produce    6,850                        21,290
LESS Production costs          4,335                        10,580
Cash income                    2,515                        10,710
Incremental cash income                                   Rs 8,195






ANNEX 14
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.        When discounting the Project costs and benefits over a 50-year
period, the economic rate of return would be about 14%. These returns were
arrived at using the following assumptions:
(a)  All investments prior to April 1971 (Rs 262 million) were
treated as stnk costs and were ignored in the basic run.
At the same time, no allowance was made for the fact that
if the costs of the dam and main canal were to be pro-rated
between the first phase and subsequent stages, the Rs 810
million overall cost to government of the first phase works
(including all sunk costs) would have been reduced to about
Rs 300 million, or to less than the cost of the Prolect
excluding past investments;
(b)  Aside from the above investments the analysis also includes
a weighted average cost of Rs 860 per ha for land levelling
and bunding. This expenditure would take place within two
years after water becomes available in a distributary;
(c)  Full yields would be attained gradually over a 4-year
period following the introduction of irrigation while pro-
duction costs would increase to their projected level in
the first year. All family labor contributions, averaging
about 70% of total labor requirements, were excluded from
the farm production costs while hired labor costs were in-
cluded at the rate of Rs 2.50 per day. A 507 net loss of
production was assumed in the area inundated by the reservoir,
and the corresponding area resettled by the inhabitants;
(d)  The rate of irrigation development in the area woutld be as
follows:
New Lands Under Irritation
Year                          Kharif           Rabi
---(ha)--
1970                            _
1971                           2.000             -
1972                           8,000           2,000
1973                           8,000           4,000
1974                           3,000          17,000
1975                          13,000          13,000
1976                          3____I0Of
34,000          66,0no



ANNEX 14
Page  2
(e) Farm-gate prices for major commodities in the Project
area were based upon expected 1Q80 world market prices
CIF Bombay. Allowance was made in the calculation for
inland transportation charges between Bombay and the
Project area in converting the CTF orices to farm-gate
prices. The basic market prices used are as follows:
US$/ton CTF Bombay
Fine rice               122
Maize                    67
Groundnuts              125
2.        The Project cost and incremental net benefit stresans based on
Lhe above assumption and used in calculating the economic rate of return
are shown in the following table:
Project            Incremental Net Value
Year                   Costs                 of Production
-------------Rs million----------------
1                    96.7                       -2.4
2                   127.0                         2.2
3                   119.5                        8.0
4                   135.2                        21.1
5                    97.1                       39.8
6                    17.8                       70.1
7                    16.0                      104.1
8                     2.4                       113.7
50                     2.4                       113.7
Rate of Return: 14.3%.
Note: Project costs from the eighth year onwards represent annual operation
and maintenance costs.
June 7, 1971



ANNEX 15
Page 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
1.        A sensitivity analysis was undertaken to examine variations in
Project benefits arising out of various changes in the basic assumption
used in Annex 14 to calculate the economic rate of return. Several levels
of changes were examined for each of the following parameters: paddy
prices; farm production costs; construction costs; rate of agricultural de-
velopment (the time lapse between the introduction of irrigation and attain-
ment of projected yield levels); commencement of irrigation; and the treat-
ment of costs. The selection of parameters likely to be affected and the
degree of change was based on past experience with irrigation projects in
India. In most cases only adverse changes were examined.
2.        Compared with a basic run rate of return of 14.3%, the sensitivity
analysis results in rates of return ranging between 9.2% and 26%. De-
tails are presented in the following table. A decrease in the rate of
return to below 12% or about a 15% reduction in benefits, is considered a
significant deviation and could arise due to changes in farm production
costs, construction costs or commencement of irrigation. A change in farm
production costs is largely outside the control of the Project except
inasmuch as a higher production efficiency which would minimize costs
could be brought about through improved extension services and additional
training and research and where a better transport network could reduce
the cost of farm inputs.  Arrangements to that end have been made under
the Project. The most likely causes of increased construction costs and
delays in the commencement of irrigation are, respectively, a slow-down in
construction activities and delays in construction of field channels.
The former usually occurs due to inadequate budgetary allocation and the
latter due to inadequate planning and the tendency to rely on farmers to
carry out the work. Provisions have been made under the project to overcome
these constraints on development.
3.        Since the reservoir and main canal were designed ultimately to
serve an area of over 400,000 ha, their costs could be allocated to each
part of the commanded area developed, as a portion of the whole area served.
Tf all future costs are allocated to the ultimate development of about
400-450,000 ha (Stage TI), the rate of return would be 24%, or 16% if sunk
costs are included. For the first phase development of 100,000 ha, with
the costs of the dam, reservoir and 113 km of the maln canal allocated in
proportion to full development (22%), the rate of return would be 26% or
19% including sunk costs.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Project Economic Rate of Return Under Changed Assumptions
Assumption                                               Rate of Return
(1)  BIasic ruin                                                         14.3
(2)   Two years' delay in attainment of projected yield levels           13.2
(3)  Four years' delav in attainment of projected yield levels           12.2
(4)   20% increase in construction costs                                 12.3
(5)   20% reduction in paddy prices                                      13.7
(6)   20% increase in farm production costs excluding family labor  13.2
(7)   Two years' delav in start of irrigation                            11.8
(8)   20% increase in construction costs (4) combined with  )
20% increase in farm production costs (6)
20% reduction in paddy prices (5) and a four-year
delay in attainment of projected yield levels (3)         )         9.2
(9)   Costs (including past and future investments) of reservoir
and main canal allocated to first phase project in proportion
to area ultimately served (100,000 ha:450,000 ha)                  19
(10)  Same as (9), excluding sunk costs                                  26
(11)  Total costs of ultimate development (Stage II). in-
cluding sunk costs                                                16
(12)  Same as (11), but excluding sunk costs                             24
June 7, 1971



ANNEX 16
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                          Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                               at end of Quarter
(US $ '000)
1971/72
September 30, 1971
December 31, 1971
March 31, 1972                                       -
June 30, 1972                                       400
1972/73
September 30, 1972                                  500
December 31, 1972                                 1,800
March 31, 1973                                    7,900
June 30, 1973                                    10,300
1973/74
September 30, 1973                               10,800
December 31, 1973                                11,800
March 31, 1974                                   16,700
June 30, 1974                                    18,900
1974/75
September 30, 1974                               19,300
December 31, 1974                                19,900
March 31, 1975                                   24,400
June 30, 1975                                    28,600
1975/76
September 30, 1975                               28,800
December 31, 1975                                29,100
March 31, 1976                                   33,400
June 30, 1976                                    35,700
1976/77
September 30, 1976                               35,700
December 31, 1976                                38,000
March 31, 1977                                   39,000
June 7, 1971






FIGURE 1
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
WATER SUPPLY AND DEMAND
145
(A) LOWEST DRY SEASON INFLOW       a
140                         RECORDED (1966-67)
/     (8) 75% PROBABILITY DRY SEASON
135                                                   INFLOW AFTER FULL UPSTREAM-
eJ  t9                       /            ~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT
0
SPILLWAY OVERFLOW PERIOD           RELEASING FROM STORAGE
LU          
LL  130 -
u
u
0
_   30                                          STORAGE
REQUIREMENT
a | ~~~~~~~~~~~~CUMULATIVE                        .                          MC
_               l  7  FR B75% PROBABILITY                                    (1976
o]  25            DRESERVOIR                                                     12 TMC
0   25 -                                JANMAY \ 
O                                                                                (AFTER FULL
|~                                                                  UPSTREAM
DEVELOPMENT)
10                             DE-A |  DEADMc/LNLW(B  BV
>   20 -                          9TMC
0
DRY SEASON/____
15                                                                          7TMC
0
U-
10 -  DEMAND,                    INFLOW (B) MONTLV DMNDA
5                     I                              100,000 HA
JUN  JUL  AUG  SEP  OCT NOV  DEC  JAN  FEB  MAR  APR  MAY
I BRD-5675






FIGURE 2
INDIA
POCHAMPAD IRRIGATION PROJECT
RESERVOIR STORAGE CAPACITY
AND RELATED ELEVATION OF SPILLWAY CONSTRUCTION TO BE ACHIEVED
CUMULATIVE RABI ("IRRIGATED DRY ") CROPPED AREA TO BE SUPPLIED, HA.
1055 -                                                                          321.5
*AT FULL UPSTREAM # 
DEVELOPMENT #
SPILLWAY CREST                                      320.6
(TEMPORARY FULL RESERVOIR)
1050 -                 LEVELS TO BE ACHIEVED                                    320.0
. ~~~~~~~~~JUNE    196I
1045 -                                                                          318.5
0
RESERVOIR
Z        CAPACITY-V-ELEVATION                    ,,
1040-            CURVE                                                  |I I
u                                    19751                                         316.1
1035 -
q/                 I          I          I             I      _315.0
Lu    .s                   ~~~I    I    I 
EVAPORATION              |
S 1030                 I          IAND OTHERI              I
1030 -                                           I LOSSES
A - .-    /    JUNE 1I973/74                                              I        313.0
1025 _                                        I          I
I                    ~~~~I       I          I             I,
I   JUNE 1972             1          |          |            |         3  S
F                   I          s          |            I       - 11.I 
1020   I      l .. .I                  I   I                    1      -311.5
1020                                          1 ...1'
0       2        4        6   7   8         10      12       14  15  16
RESERVOIR LIVE STORAGE CAPACITY, CU. FT. X 109 (TMC)
(1 TMC  28.31 Mm3)
IBRD - 5674(R)






g         ~~~~~~~A                    D I L                         S      T R I C T                                                              INDIA
POCHAMPAD  IRRIGATION  PROJECT
To NAGPO/R
moor                                                                                                                                nd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -~. ~ a oqudm
Jo' \
.=i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---.
Zalmabu a                           0 1z  A  M:A  B  A  D                                                               \                              |                                J             .)I
<            X ~~D I S T   I C r                                                                                                             -            
\h V     .               r              -- ~~~~~K A R I M  N A G A  Ri,/D I S T RI C T-9/
KcimrreddltJ/I\
_______                                    ( r                                 --rcSc)W                                        A    R \A          N     G     A     L
t0 HYDERABAD                                                                                                                                                                              i
(/\/QNOp>XfmajZr|-  .                   Di6tribedrsry  Ccnds             \     t                                               }                          ) ~~~~D    I    5 ,,T   R     I   C     T
^>0    \ J^^4^H4ffi1nf y                                                                      E-isting  irrigated  area, STAGEII
~ > 5   " 'Ht=^SH    T I 3 E T
,,  unas 1  ',                                                                            0 |  I   II  D  A. Project  area
~,or  /' d  f   tQ  '    suns BA~ITAN'                                         L.Krb.-..J  STAGE n   Project  area
OUJOOcHaN 0b'  Pr^DE -                                                                         stAGE  G. jd-r,  south  o.eJl                             (                                                           rosgal
no>usnnas                        - 5),  &   1Xd BIHAR rJl 'E   j                            Extended Godavri south canal
MArHtA PrAreSH  nt   S S T  r   |                                  ~~~~~~~STAGE I1, G.ol--e  south caznal                                                                                Warangalg o
' MAHAr^onTrA    ^    ioooSSAX  8  |                                     eMain  roads
,.                                                                                      na'c>lrSj]-9<9~rf   0  f  ^  ^ ^ *  Railxaysx
'         5  A                                               -            Rivers
o           X            Mrs r > 0   r,    r I              |                       -District  boundaries
Forest Reserves  oed Hgh Ground
S nec                                                               ~    ~ ~       ~ ~~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~                        ~ I  Ic0    i  C M,Ils  r. HYTDERABAD
n                                             O                                                        1~Y~DN  c0  20           30 Kn,
MARCH  1971                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 3045R



