CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 268 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pochampad Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 268 IN
Development Credit
Agreement
(Pochampad Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INDIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿Brortpmut Turbit Agm~mut
AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1971, between INDiA,
acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssOCIATION (herein-
after called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Associa-
tion to assist in the financing of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(B) The Project will be carried out by the State of
Andhra Pradesh with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to the State of Andhra Pradesh the proceeds of the Credit
as hereinafter provided; and
(C) The Association is willing to make the Credit avail-
able upon the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter
and in a project agreement of even date herewith between
the Association and the State of Andhra Pradesh;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements -of the Association, dated
January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the follow-
ing modifications thereof (said General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Associa-
tion, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):


﻿4
(a) Section 5.01 is deleted;
(b) Section 6.02 (h) is deleted and Section 6.02 (i) be-
comes 6.02 (h);
(c) paragraph 5 of Section 2.01 is amended to read as
follows:
"5. The term 'Borrower' means India, acting by its Presi-
dent."
(d) the words ", the Project Agreement" are added
after the words "Development Credit Agreement" in Sec-
tion 6.06; and
(e) the words "or the Project Agreement" are added
after the words "Development Credit Agreement" in Sec-
tion 8.02.
SEcTIoN 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and the State of Andhra Pradesh of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project
Agreement, if any;
(b) "Andhra Pradesh" means the State of Andhra
Pradesh, a state of India, or any successor thereof;
(c) "CWP C" means the Central Water and Power Com-
mission, an agency of the Borrower;
(d) "Project Area" means the gross area of about
240,000 hectares in the Karimnagar and Nizamabad dis-
tricts of Andhra Pradesh of which about 100,000 hectares
will receive irrigation water upon completion of the Proj-
ect;
(e) "PWD" means the Public Works Department of
Andhra Pradesh;


﻿5
(f) "Rs" means rupees in the currency of the Borrower;
and
(g) "SGD" means the State Groundwater Directorate
established by Order G.O.Ms No. 234, dated February 18,
1971, of the Government of Andhra Pradesh.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
SECTION 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to thirty-nine million dollars
($39,000,000).
SECTioN 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be with-
drawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in re-
spect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed under the Development
Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be
made on account of expenditures in the territories of any
country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services sup-
plied from, such territories.
SECTION 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
procured in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
SECTION 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1977,
or such other date as shall be agreed between the Borrower
and the Association.


﻿6
SECTION 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Associa-
tion a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one
per cent (34 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
SECTION 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 15 and Aagust 15 in each year.
SECTION 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account
in semi-annual installments payable on each February 15
and August 15 commencing August 15, 1981 and ending
February 15, 2021, each installment to and including the
installment payable on February 15, 1991, to be one-half
of one per cent (1/2 of 1%o) of such principal amount, and
each installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent
(11/2% %') of such principal amount.
SECTION 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
SECTION 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or
cause to be carried out, the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with sound administrative,
agricultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the equivalent of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit in respect of Categories II, III, IV and
V of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit set forth
in Schedule 1 to this Agreement to Andhra Pradesh for the
Project in accordance with the Borrower's standard ar-
rangements for loans to states of India for development
projects.


﻿7
(c) The Borrower shall cause Andhra Pradesh to make
arrangements in its annual development plans for the pro-
vision of funds required for the implementation of the
Project in accordance with a detailed schedule of construc-
tion which shall be acceptable to the Association.
(d) The Borrower shall take and shall cause all its agen-
cies to take all action which shall be necessary on their
part to enable Andhra. Pradesh to perform all of its obli-
gations under the Project Agreement and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which might interfere with
such performance.
(e) The Borrower shall promptly grant permission to
import all goods which are not procured locally and which
are necessary to carry out the Project, and no reviews of
such permission to import shall be made by the Borrower
or by any of its agencies. The Borrower shall (i) promptly
upon receipt of the appropriate applications, issue, or cause
to be issued, such import licenses as shall be required for
such purpose and (ii) make available, or cause to be made
available, promptly as needed, all foreign exchange which
shall be required for such purpose.
(f) With respect to locally produced goods which are
required for the Project and which are subject to alloca-
tion, the Borrower shall, whether or not the goods are
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, make, or cause
to be made, allocations of such goods promptly and in such
quantities as shall be required to carry out the Project.
(g) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall make organizational and administrative
arrangements satisfactory to the Association to assure the
Borrower's continuing involvement in and association with
the implementation of the engineering and agricultural
aspects of the Project.
SECTION 3.02. The Borrower shall make arrangements
within one year after the date of this Agreement for the
procurement of the mapping equipment which is to be


﻿8
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of
Category I of the allocation of the proceeds of the Credit
set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement and shall cause
the Survey of India to produce maps, as and when needed
by Andhra Pradesh for the Project area and areas included
in subsequent phases of the scheme of which the Project
is a part.
SECTION 3.03. The Borrower shall cause CWPC to as-
sign competent and experienced staff as and when CWPC
shall consider necessary to review work at the dam site,
including design changes and quality control. CWPC shall
certify that the major components of the dam, when com-
pleted, have been carried out in accordance with the designs
and specifications of CWPC.
SECTION 3.04. In carrying out Part A    (1)-(5) of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause Andhra Pradesh to em-
ploy suitably qualified contractors under the procedures
set out in Schedule 3 to this Agreement upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTION 3.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively for the Project until its completion. The Association
agrees that the mapping equipment referred to in Section
3.02 of this Agreement may be used for non-Project pur-
poses, provided that such use does not interfere with pro-
duction of the maps referred to in such Section 3.02.
SECTION 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall cause to be fur-
nished to the Association, promptly upon their prepara-
tion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents
and work procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower shall or shall cause Andhra Pradesh
to: (i) maintain records adequate to record the progress


﻿9
of the Project (including the cost thereof), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect the
Project, the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and any relevant records and documents, and (iii) furnish
to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expend-
iture of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and serv-
ices financed out of such proceeds.
SECTION 3.07. The Borrower shall insure or cause to be
insured, or make or cause to be made, adequate provision
for the insurance of the goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place
of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by Andhra
Pradesh to replace or repair such goods. The Borrower
shall also cause Andhra Pradesh to keep the Association
informed of such insurance arrangements.
SECTION 3.08. The Borrower shall cause to be taken all
such action as shall be r.: o.sary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and ,,ats in respect of land as shall
be required for the construction and operation of the facili-
ties included in Part A of the Project and for carrying out
Part C of the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the
Association that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
SECTION 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained sound accounting practices,
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of


﻿10
the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
SECTION 4.02. Prior to December 31, 1972, the Borrower
shall discuss with the Association the implementation of
the recommendations which result from the study to be
carried out by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to Section 3.02
(a) (iii) of the Project Agreement.
SECTION 4.03. The Borrower shall, or shall cause Andhra
Pradesh to, take out and maintain with responsible insur-
ers, or to make other provisions satisfactory to the Associa-
tion for, insurance of goods related to the Project against
such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with
sound practice and to keep the Association informed as to
such insurance arrangements.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Borrower and the Association shall
cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the Credit
will be accomplished. To that end, the Borrower and the
Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a) exchange views through their representatives with
regard to the performance of their respective obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the performance
by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, and, in respect of the Project, the administra-
tion, operations and resources and expenditures of Andhra
Pradesh and of the departments or agencies of the Bor-
rower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit; and
(b) furnish to the other all such information as it shall
reasonably request with regard to the general status of the


﻿11
Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such information shall
include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its
balance of payments, and the external debt of the Borrower,
of any of its political subdivisions and of any agency of
the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
SECTION 5.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause
to be furnished to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning, in
respect of the Project, the administration, operations, and
resources and expenditures of Andhra Pradesh and of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower and the Association shall promptly
inform each other of any condition which interferes with,
or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement or the perform-
ance by Andhra Pradesh of its obligations under the Proj-
ect Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable
opportunity for accredited representatives of the Associa-
tion to inspect all installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment which is related to the Project
and any relevant records and documents and to visit any
part of the territories of the Borrower for purposes re-
lated to the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Taxes and Restrictions
SECTION 6.01. The principal of, and service charges on,
the Credit shall be paid without deduction for, and free
from, any taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower
or laws in effect in its territories.


﻿12
SECTION 6.02. The Development Credit Agreement and
the Project Agreement shall be free from any taxes on or
in connection with the execution, delivery or registration
thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories.
SECTION 6.03. The payment of the principal of, and serv-
ice charges on, the Credit shall be free from all restrictions,
regulations, controls and moratoria of any nature imposed
under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Association
SEOTIoN 7.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of
the General Conditions or in Section 7.03 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein
set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continu-
ance thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice
to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then
outstanding to be due and payable immediately together
with the service charges thereon and upon any such decla-
ration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the
Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
SECTION 7.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified:
(a) Andhra Pradesh shall have failed to perform any
obligation under the Project Agreement.
(b) Au extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that Andhra Pradesh will be able
to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
SECTION 7.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional event is speci-
fied, namely, the event specified in Section 7.02(a) of this


﻿13
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII
Effective Date; Termination
SECTION 8.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 10.01 (b)
of the General Conditions:
(a) The execution and delivery of the Project Agree-
ment on behalf of Andhra Pradesh have been duly author-
ized or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental
action.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall have appointed a Project Co-
ordinator with suitable rank, powers and responsibilities,
after consultation with the Association with respect to the
experience and qualifications required for this post.
SECTION 8.02. The following is specified as additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 10.02 (b) of the
General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opin-
ions to be furnished to the Association:
That the Project Agreement has been duly author-
ized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf
of, Andhra Pradesh, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of Andhra Pradesh in accordance with its terms.
SECTIoN 8.03. The date November 15, 1971 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 10.04 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE IX
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
SECTION 9.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary or
Joint Secretary to the Government of India in the Ministry
of Finance or a Director of the Department of Economic


﻿14
Affairs in the Ministry of Finance is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03
of the General Conditions.
SECTION 9.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
Ecofairs
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.


﻿15
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representative thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INDIA
By /s/ LAKSHMI KANT JHA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssoCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


﻿16
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. The table below sets forth the categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation
of amounts of the Credit to each category and the percen-
tage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each
category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in       % of Expenditures
Category          Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
I. Photo mapping equipment
and supplies                 360,000   100%  of total expenditures
II. Equipment and materials     3,140,000  100%  of total expenditures
III. Spares for plant and
equipment                   1,300,000  100%  of total expenditures
IV. Civil works carried out by
contract                   30,200,000   80%  of local expenditures
V. Givil works carried out by
PWD force account           4,000,000   80%  of local expenditures
TOTAL                  39,000,000
2. For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expendi-
tures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the
territories, and in the currency, of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or -services supplied from, the territories of the Borrower;
and
(c) the term "total expenditures" means the aggregate
of foreign and local expenditures.


﻿17
3. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above,
no withdrawals shall be made in respect of :
(a) expenditures prior to July 6, 1971; and
(b) payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the
Borrower or laws in effect in its territories on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount repre-
sented by the percentage set forth in the third column of
the table in paragraph 1 above in respect of any Category
would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no pro-
ceeds of the Credit will be withdrawn on account of pay-
ments for such taxes.
4. (a) Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the
Credit set forth in the second column of the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the estimate of the expenditures under
Category V shall decrease, the amount of the Credit then
allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor
will be reallocated by the Association by increasing corre-
spondingly the amount allocated to Category IV and the
Association will increase correspondingly (up to a maxi-
mum of 100o net of taxes) the percentage applicaP -  to
Category IV.
(b) The Association from time to time with the consent
of the Borrower may revise the percentage of local expendi-
tures in Category IV, so as to reflect revised estimates of
expenditures in such Category.
5. If any contract for the procurement of any item included
in any Category shall have been awarded according to pro-
cedures inconsistent with those set forth or referred to in
Section 2.03 of this Agreement, or if the Association shall
have reasonably objected to any such contract on the
ground that the procurement procedure followed is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in such
Section 2.03, or if the terms and conditions of any such


﻿18
contract shall, without the Association's prior concurrence,
materially differ from those on the basis of which bids were
asked, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit and correspondingly re-
duce the amount allocated to the relevant Category, as the
Association shall reasonably determine to represent the
portion of total expenditures under such contract which
would have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds
of the Credit, had the procurement procedures followed not
been inconsistent with those set forth or referred to in
such Section 2.03.
6. Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third
column of the table in paragraph 1 above, if the estimate
of expenditures under Category IV or V shall increase
and, with respect to Category IV, no proceeds of the Credit
are available for reallocation thereto, the Association may,
by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further with-
drawals under such Category may continue until all ex-
penditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the comprehensive development
for perennial irrigated agriculture of a net area of about
100,000 hectares along the bank of the Godavari River. It
includes:
PART A. (1) Construction of an earth-fill and masonry
dam with a crest length of about 14.6 km.
The earthen embankments will be at eleva-
tion 334 meters and the spillway crest at a
temporary elevation of 318.5 meters.
(2) Completion of the remaining excavation and
structures for the first 113 km of the Goda-
vari South main canal.
(3) Installation of concrete lining along the
the first 113 km of the main canal.
(4) Construction of branch and distributory
canals; minor canals, including gated out-
lets to serve no more than 40 ha each; and
field channels to each holding.
(5) Improvement of natural drainage ways and
construction of new field drains.
(6) Construction of about 460 km of new village
roads.
PART B. Land shaping, levelling and bunding of fields
where necessary.
PART C. Resettlement of the population of the area sub-
merged by the reservoir.
PART D. (1) Carrying out of studies to determine:
(a) crop irrigation requirements, water
losses and movements of the water
table;


﻿20
(b) the need for additional marketing, stor-
age and processing facilities in the
area; and
(c) the recovery of Project costs.
(2) Preparation for further development, in-
cluding air photography, mapping and feasi-
bility studies for the development of the
full potential of the reservoir.
PART E. Improvement of agricultural support programs,
including farm credit, and strengthening of the
agricultural exte.nsion program.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1976.


﻿21
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
1. With respect to goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of Category II of the table
set out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:
(a) Such goods shall be procured on the basis of inter-
national competition under procedures consistent with the
Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and
IDA Credits, published by the Bank in August 1969, as
revised in May 1971, and with the requirements contained
in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b) With respect to any contract for such goods esti-
mated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more:
(i) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Associa-
tion's concurrence before it is issued to the prospec-
tive bidders.
(ii) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award
is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to whom it intends to award the contract and
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation
and comparison of the bids received, together with
the reasons for the intended award. The Associa-
tion shall promptly inform the Borrower whether
it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with the Guide-


﻿22
lines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits referred to in paragraph 1(a)
of this Schedule or with the Development Credit
Agreement, and shall state the reasons for -any
objections it may have.
(iii) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and con-
ditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were
asked, no expenditure thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(iv) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract.
(c) For the purpose of evaluating bids for such goods
and associated services, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules:
(i) The term "Local Bid" means a bid submitted by a
manufacturer established in the territories of the
Borrower for goods manufactured or processed to
a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by
the Association) in such territories; any other bid
shall be deemed to be a "Foreign Bid".
(ii) The bid price under a Local Bid shall be the sum
of the following amounts:
(a) the ex-factory price of such goods; and
(b) inland freight, insurance and other costs of
delivery of such goods to the place of their use
or installation.
(iii) For the purpose of comparing any Foreign Bid
with any Local Bid, the bid price under a Foreign
Bid shall be the sum of the following amounts:


﻿23
(a) the c.i.f. price of such goods;
(b) the amount of any taxes on the importation of
such goods into the territories of the Borrower
which generally apply to non-exempt import-
ers, or 15% of the amount specified in para-
graph 1(c) (iii) (a) above, whichever shall be
the lower; and
(c) handling charges, inland freight, insurance and
other costs of delivery of such goods to the
place of their use or installation.
(d) With respect to any other contract for such goods,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Asso-
ciation of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such contract,
two conformed copies of such contract. The Association
shall promptly inform the Borrower if it finds that the
award of the contract is not consistent with the Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits
referred to in p,aragraph 1(a) of this Schedule or with the
Development Credit Agreement and, in such event, no ex-
penditure under such contract shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
2. With respect to goods required for the Project and to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in respect of
Categories I and III of the allocation of the proceeds of
the Credit set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the
Credit Account in respect of any such contract, two con-
formed copies of such contract.
3. With respect to the civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of Category IV of the table set out in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement:


﻿24
(a) for contracts relating to the canal tunnel, the syphon
on the main canal, and the lining of the main canal which
shall be divided into not more than 4 contracts, the follow-
ing procedure shall be applied:
(i) Bids will be invited from Indian companies by ad-
vertisement in national and local newspapers.
(ii) If bidders are required to prequalify, or if bidding
is limited to contractors registered with PWD, the
Borrower shall inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed for prequalification or
registration and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Association shall reason-
ably request. The list of prequalified or registered
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifica-
tions and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification or registration, shall
be furnished by the Borrower to the Association for
its comments before the applicants are notified and
the Borrower shall make such additions or dele-
tions from the said list as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(iii) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the
invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of
the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association
shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Asso-
ciation's concurrence before it is issued to the pros-
pective bidders.
(iv) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award
is made, inform the Association of the name of the


﻿25
bidder to whom it intends to awar( the contract
and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, together
with the reasons for the intended award. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly inform the Borrower whether
it has any objection to the intended award on the
ground that it would be inconsistent with these
requirements or with the Development Credit
Agreement, and shall state the reasons for any
objections it may have.
(v) If the contract shall be awarded over the Associa-
tion's reasonable objection, or if its terms and con-
ditions shall, without the Association's concurrence,
materially differ from those on which bids were
asked, no expenditure thereunder shall be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(vi) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be fur-
nished to the Association promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association
of the firs. application for withdrawal of funds
from the Credit Account in respect of any such
contract.
(b) except as the Association shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts relating to the excavation of the main canal and
branch canal No. D/83, the following procedure shall be
applied:
(i) works shall be offered in contracts of not less than
Rs. 2.5 million each;
(ii) not less than three such contracts for similar or
related works shall be grouped together for the
purposes of tendering. Bidders shall be invited to
tender for individual contracts or any groups of
contracts and may limit their bids to such groups
only.


﻿26
(iii) for the purpose of evaluating bids for such groups
of contracts, bid prices shall be determined and
compared in accordance with the following rules
which shall be clearly set out in calling for bids:
(a) Bids relating to one contract shall be examined
and the lowest responsive bid for each contract
shall be the "lowest single bid".
(b) Bids for more than one contract shall be exam-
ined and the lowest responsive bid for any two
or more contracts shall be the "lowest aggre-
gated bid" for that combination of contracts.
(c) The sum of the "lowest single bids" for each
combination of two or more contracts shall be
compared with the "lowest aggregated bid"
for that combination. The award shall be made
to the bidder submitting the "lowest aggre-
gated bid" if it is lower than the sum of the
"lowest single bids"; otherwise awards shall
be made to the bidders submitting the "lowest
single bid ".
(c) for other civil works excluding the excavation of
the main canal and branch canal No. D/83, contracts shall
be let in accordance with the normal procedures of the
PWD.
4. With respect to the civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of Category V of the table set out in paragraph 1
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, works shall be carried
out by force account.


