CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 268 IN
Project Agreement
(Pochampad Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 268 IN
Project Agreement
(Pochampad Irrigation Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
DATED AUGUST 23, 1971


﻿AGREEMENT, dated August 23, 1971, between INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT AssocIATIoN (hereinafter called the
Association) and THE STATE of ANDHRA PRADESH (herein-
after called Andhra Pradesh).
WHEREAS by a development credit agreement of even
date herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (here-
inafter called the Borrower) and the Association (here-
inafter referred to as the Development Credit Agreement),
the Association has agreed to make available to the Bor-
rower an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
nine million dollars ($39,000,000), on the terms and con-
ditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that Andhra Pradesh agree to under-
take such obligations toward the Association as hereinafter
set forth; and
WHEREAs Andhra Pradesh, in consideration of the Asso-
ciation's entering into the Development Credit Agreement
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations
hereinafter set forth;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
SECTION 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context shall otherwise require, the several terms de-
fined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective
meanings therein set forth.


﻿4
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
SECTION 2.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall carry out the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit
Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in con-
formity with sound administrative, agricultural, engineer-
ing and financial practices, and shall provide, or cause to
be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, serv-
ices and other resources required for that purpose.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall cause PWD to post necessary
staff to the Project in accordance with a schedule which
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
(c) Andhra Pradesh shall appoint necessary staff to the
Project Area to carry out a comprehensive program of
agricultural support for the Project referred to in Section
3.02(a) (iv) of this Agreement.
(d) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Andhra Pradesh, through PWD, shall cause Part A(3) of
the Project to be undertaken pursuant to not more than
four contracts, to provide for lining 68 km not later than
June 30, 1974, and to provide for lining of ar additional
44 km not later than June 30, 1976.
SECTION 2.02. Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a) consult with the Association with respect to the expe-
rience and qualifications required for the post of Project
Coordinator;
(b) establish a Development Committee by December 31,
1971 with terms of reference acceptable to the Association,
under the chairmanship of an officer of Andhra Pradesh
of suitably senior rank and consisting of the Secretaries
and heads of all departments and agencies associated with
the Project with responsibility for the policy direction of
the planning and management of the Project; and
(c) establish a project working committee by Decem-
ber 31, 1971 under the chairmanship of the Project Coordi-
nator, (i) with terms of reference acceptable to the Associa-


﻿5
tion, comprising the senior field officers of all departments
and agencies associated with the Project, for the purpose
of ensuring full liaison between the field representatives of
such departments and agencies, and (ii) with responsibility
for the implementation and operation of the Project under
the direction of the Development Committee.
SECTIoN 2.03. For the purpose of encouraging farmers
in the Project Area to level their land so as to adapt it to
irrigation techniques, Andhra Pradesh shall ensure that
(a) appropriate technical staff are posted to the Project
Area at all times until completion of the Project, (b) such
technical staff will promulgate satisfactory land-levelling
standards, (c) adequate equipment is available to farmers
in the Project Area to level their land, and (d) adequate
funds will be available to assist farmers in the Project
Area who require credit for land-levelling.
SECTION 2.04. Andhra Pradesh, acting through PWD,
shall consult with CWPC before making any design
changes, or accepting completed work, on the dam.
SECTION 2.05. Andhra Pradesh, through PWD, shall
cause Part A(5) of the Project to proceed simultaneously
with on-farm development in each area and shall complete
Part A(5) of the Project no later than June 1, 1976.
SECTION 2.06. Andhra Pradesh shall insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by Andhra Pradesh
to replace or repair such goods. Andhra Pradesh shall keep
the Association informed of such insurance arrangements.
SECTION 2.07. In carrying out Part A(1)-(5) of the
Project, Andhra Pradesh shall employ suitably qualified
contractors under the procedures set out in Schedule 3 to


﻿6
the Development Credit Agreement upon terms and con-
ditions satisfactory to the Association.
SECTIoN 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Andhra Pradesh shall cause all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclu-
sively for the Project until its completion.
SECTION 2.09. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the
Association promptly upon their preparation, the plans,
reports, specifications, contract documents and construc-
tion and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b) Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i) maintain records adequate to identify the proceeds
of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower and to
allocate them specifically to the Project, to record
the progress of the Project (including the cost
thereof), to show the results achieved by the Proj-
ect and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by
the Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in
the Project;
(ii) enable the Association's representatives to inspect
the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Credit so relent to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Project Facilities
SECTION 3.01. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall cause all works
and facilities included in the Project or necessary to the


﻿7
proper and efficient operation thereof to be operated, main-
tained and repaired in accordance with sound engineering
practices and standards and shall provide, or cause to be
provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, serv-
ices and other resources required for that purpose.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the preceding
paragraph, Andhra Pradesh shall, under arrangements sat-
isfactory to the Association, cause the dam constructed
under the Project to be periodically inspected, not less fre-
quently than once every five years, in accordance with
sound engineering practices in order to determine whether
there are any deficiencies or potential deficiencies in the
condition of such structures and earthworks, or in the
quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of opera-
tion of such structures and earthworks which may endanger
the safety of such structures and earthworks.
SECTION 3.02. (a) Andhra Pradesh shall:
(i) conduct a study of crop irrigation requirements and
water losses, specifically including water losses in
the Project Area due to seepage from canals and
percolation in fields and shall utilize the results of
such study in the design and operation of distribu-
tory canals and drains;
(ii) through SGD   or PWD, prepare and initiate a
groundwater monitoring program in the Project
Area by April 30, 1972, and carry out additional
studies of field drainage needs according to terms
of reference which shall be satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation;
(iii) for the purpose of ensuring the orderly develop-
ment of additional storage, processing and market-
ing facilities in the Project Area, carry out a corm-
prehensive study, with terms of reference accept-
able to the Association, of (a) the optimum size,
location and timing of construction of additional
storage, processing and marketing facilities, and


﻿8
(b) financial and administrative implications aris-
ing out of the construction of such new facilities in
the public sector after making reasonable allowance
for participation by the private sector; and
(iv) within six months after the date of this Agreement,
finalize a comprehensive program of agricultural
support for the Project which shall be satisfactory
to the Association and which shall include pro-
posals for strengthening credit societies.
(b) Prior to December 31, 1972, Andhra Pradesh shall
discuss with the Association the implementation of the rec-
ommendations which result from the study referred to in
Section 3.02 (a) (iii), above.
SECTION 3.03. Andhra Pradesh, through PWD, shall as-
sume responsibility for the maintenance of village roads
in the Project Area as soon as they have been reconstructed
in each sub-division and shall provide adequate funds for
proper maintenance of all such roads.
SECTION 3.04. Andhra Pradesh shall take out and main-
tain with responsible insurers, or make other provisions
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with sound
practice, and keep the Association informed as to such
insurance arrangements.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
SECTION 4.01. Andhra Pradesh shall cause PWD to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained sound accounting practices its op-
erations and financial condition with respect to the Project.
SECTION 4.02. Andhra Pradesh shall cause PWD to:
(i) have its accounts and financial statements (statements
of income and expenses and related statements) with re-
spect to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in accord-


﻿9
ance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by the Accountant General of Andhra Pradesh; (ii) fur-
nish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such
year, (A) certified copies of such financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit
by the Accountant General of Andhra Pradesh, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have rea-
sonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably re-
quest concerning the operations and financial condition with
respect to the Project of PWD.
SECTION 4.03. Andhra Pradesh shall make arrangements
in its annual budgetary allocation for the provision of
funds required for the implementation of the Project in
accordance with a detailed schedule of construction which
shall be acceptable to the Association and shall be sub-
mitted to the Association by February 1 in each year.
SECTION 4.04. Andhra Pradesh shall allocate an amount
equivalent to Rs 20 per hectare of land irrigated or such
other amount as agreed with the Association to meet the
full cost of operation and maintenance of the facilities
which shall be constructed as a part of the Project and
shall review such allocation not less frequently than every
five years.
SECTION 4.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Andhra Pradesh shall:
(a) by December 31, 1972, or as soon thereafter as irri-
gation water is allocated to any land, collect the
authorized charges payable in respect of such irri-
gated land;
(b) by December 31, 1974, have completed a study on
arrangements for recovery of :
(i) the full cost of operation and maintenance of
irrigation system, and


﻿10
(ii) as much as practicable of the capital cost of
Parts A(1)-(5) and C of the Project attribu-
table to the Project Area, having regard, inter
alia, for the incentives and repayment capacity
of farmers in the Project Area,
and shall promptly thereafter consult with the Asso-
ciation with respect to the recommendations on such
arrangements; and
(c) by December 31, 1976, have implemented arrange-
ments for recovery of the costs specified in Section
4.05 (b) above.
ARTICLE V
Consultation, Information and Inspection
SECTION 5.01. The Association and Andhra Pradesh
shall cooperate fully to assure that the purposes of the
Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and Andhra Pradesh shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views through their representa-
tives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, oper-
ations and financial condition of Andhra Pradesh and other
matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
SECTION 5.02. The Association and Andhra Pradesh
shall promptly inform each other of any condition which
interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accom-
plishment of the purposes of the Credit or the performance
by either of them of its obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 5.03. Andhra Pradesh shall enable the Associa-
tion's representatives to inspect all plants, sites, works,
properties and equipment of Andhra Pradesh related to
the Project and any relevant records and documents.
SECTION 5.04. Andhra Pradesh shall furnish or cause to
be furnished to the Association promptly upon their prep-
aration the plans, specifications, contract documents and


﻿11
work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any
material modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such
detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
SECTION 6.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit
Agreement becomes effective.
SECTION 6.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations
of the Association and of Andhra Pradesh thereunder shall
terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agree-
ment shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in para-
graph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall
promptly notify Andhra Pradesh of this event and, upon
the giving of such notice, this Agreement and all obliga-
tions of the parties thereunder shall forthwith terminate.
SECTION 6.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any can-
cellation or suspension under the Development Credit
Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous Provisions
SECTION 7.01. Any notice or request required or per-
mitted to be given or made under this Agreement and any
agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agree-
ment shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be
deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be


﻿12
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or
radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Indevas
Washington, D.C.
For Andhra Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government of
Andhra Pradesh
Public Works Department (Projects Wing)
Hyderabad 22
India
Cable address:
SECTION 7.02. Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be exe-
cuted, under this Agreement on behalf of Andhra Pradesh
may be taken or executed by the Secretary to the Govern-
ment of Andhra Pradesh in PWD or such other person or
persons as he shall designate in writing.
SECTION 7.03. Andhra Pradesh shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenti-
cated specimen signature of the person or persons who will,


﻿13
on behalf of Andhra Pradesh, take any action or execute
any documents required or permitted to be taken or exe-
cuted by Andhra Pradesh pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
SECTION 7.04. This Agreement may be executed in sev-
eral counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and
all. collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have
caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President
THE STATE OF ANDHRA PRADESH
By   /s/ LAKSHMI KANT JHA
Authorized Representative


