Document of
ILE CQPYf                      The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
aw;iab"d-, t!
Report No. P-1932-TUN
REPORTS DESK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A SECOND
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
November 3, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Unit                                     Tunisian Dinar (D)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate
used in the appraisal report, which approximates the current rate, is:
US $ 1               -         D    0.416
D    1               -         US $ 2.4
D    1,000           -         US $ 2,400
D    1,000,000       -         US $ 2,400,000
Fiscal Year                              January 1 to December 31
Abbreviations
BNT          Banque Nationale de Tunisie
SONAMO       Socifte Nationale de Motoculture
FOSDA        Fond Special pour le Developpement Agricole
CLCM         Caisse Locale de Credit Mutuel
SCM          Societe de Caution Mutuelle
BDET         Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to Banque Nationale de Tunisie with the guarantee of the Republic of Tunisia,
for the equivalent of US$12 million to help finance a second agricultural
credit project. The loan would have a term of 12 years, including 4 years of
grace, with interest at 8.7 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "The Economic Development of Tunisia:    A Basic
Report" was distributed to the Executive Directors in January 1975. Since
then, two updating economic reports, both entitled "Memorandum on the Economic
Position of Tunisia", were circulated on May 23, 1975 and September 17, 1976.
The main conclusions of the basic economic report and the updating missions
are reflected below. Country data sheets are attached in Annex 1.
3.        Tunisia's development has been hampered by scarcity of natural re-
sources.  Much of thF country is arid or semi-arid, and agriculture is highly
depend2nt on rainfall. Minerals are mostly of low quality and, apart from
phosphites, limited Ln quantity.   Relatively small quantities of petroleum
were discovered in thie mid-1960's and have since become an increasingly
valuable source of revenue and export earnings. Industrial development has
been handicapped by the small size of the domestic market as well as a lack
of skills and experience. Tourism has developed rapidly and workers' remit-
tances have become a significant item in the balance of payments. Tunisia
has enjoyed a large amount of external aid and used it to expand economic
and social infrastructure, broaden the industrial base, make available a wide
range of social and welfare services to a large part of the population, and
increase the rate of growth. Per capita GNP increased by 4.2 percent annually
from 1961 to 1975. Like most countries, however, Tunisia has not yet found
adequate ways to cope with unemployment and poverty and to achieve a balanced
distri')ution of consumption among income groups, between urban and rural
areas, and among regions.
4.        Government strategy in the 1960's relied heavily on central plan-
ning oE investment and resource allocation, with the public sector playing a
major role in production as well as providing infrastructure and services.
Foreign exchange shortages and concern with inflation led to recourse to a
pervasive system of price determination and controls. An unusually long
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



series of poor crop years due to shortage of rainfall slowed the growth of
output. Many of the investments in public enterprises proved to be un-
economic and private initiat[ve in most sectors except tourism and petroleum
was limited.
5.         The Government's present development strategy was introduced in the
early 1970s. Its principal objectives are: (a) accelerating growth based on
export-oriented industries, by encouraging private initiative, reducing direct
Government involvement in production and relaxing administrative regulations;
(b) creating jobs, primarily in the expanding industrial sector, encouraging
worker emigration, reducing population growth and improving education and
training; and (c) maintaining internal and external financial stability. The
1973-76 Fourth Plan set a target rate of GDP growth of 7 percent, providing
for a 5.4 percent growth rate in per capita private consumption. Investment
was projected to increase by 80 percent above the level of the 1969-72 Plan.
National savings were to finance three-quarters of investment. Exports of
goods and services were projected to grow at 8.8 percent per year at constant
prices and imports at 12.2 percent. The Plan foresaw net external capital
inflows increasing by 55 percent over 1969-1972 average levels and providing
23.5 percent of total investment. Debt service was to be held to below 20
percent of exports. The original Plan targets were conservative in terms of
both growth and savings potential, and have been significantly affected by
the impact of the changed petroleum and phosphate prices on the Tunisian
economy (paras. 9 and 10).
6.         The real growth of GDP has accelerated since 1970, reaching 9.2
percent per annum during 1970-75, compared with 4.6 percent during the pre-
vious decade. The acceleration can be attributed to fortuitous factors such
as good weather, leading to record cereal and olive crops, to important
growth in tourism, petroleum and phosphate revenues and workers' remittances,
and to the general reorientation of Government policy since 1970 which re-
newed self-confidence and initiative in the private sector. Expansion of
manufacturing and phosphate production has been significant. By 1975, per
capita GNP reached $760 (1976 Bank Atlas estimate). The investment rate,
which averaged 23 percent of GDP at current prices in the 1960's, declined
slightly to 22 percent during 1970-75. National savings, on the other hand,
rose sharply from an average of 13.5 percent of GDP at current prices during
the 1960's to 19 percent during 1970-75. Consequently, the share of external
borrowing in financing investment dropped from 44 percent in the 1960's to 13
percent during 1970-75.
7.        The balance of payments was in overall surplus from 1967 to 1974 and
since late 1973 benefitted greatly from sharply improved terms-of-trade. How-
ever, in 1975 the terms of trade began to deteriorate, the demand for Tunisian
exports sharply decreased, and despite substantial disbursements on external
borrowing, international reserves declined by 11 percent. At the end of 1975,
net reserves amounted to $344 million, equivalent to about 3 months of imports.



- 3 -
8.        Because of price controls and Government subsidies of basic con-
sumer goods, and prudent fiscal and monetary policies, Tunisia has maintained
relative price stability. Consumer price increases averaged 4.2 percent an-
nually during 1970-74. There was, however, a 9.6 percent increase in con-
sumer prices in 1975, largely because of increased export and import prices.
During 1970-74, the official GDP deflator rose at an average annual rate of
9.7 percent and average investment costs increased by 8.7 percent. The in-
creases in these two price indices in 1975 were 5.2 percent and 14 percent,
respectively.
9.        Despite the terms-of-trade loss in 1975, Tunisia still is on balance
a beneficiary of the changes in world market prices since late 1973, but this
favorable situation will probably change in later years. Mainly because of
sharply higher prices for petroleum, phosphates and olive oil, export earnings
rose from $714 million in 1973 to $1,254 million in 1974 and $1,328 million in
1975. On the other hand, increases in import prices, combined with higher
domestic demand, caused payments on imports to grow from $782 million in 1973
to $1,242 million in 1974 and to $1,525 million in 1975. The gains from
changes in terms of trade since 1973 are projected to disappear around 1978
or 1979, as a result of the expected stabilization or decrease in the prices
of Tunisia's major exports, and further increases in the prices of imported
industrial goods. At the same time, workers' remittances may continue to be
restrained by slower economic growth in Western Europe. Taking into account
likely capital inflows through direct investment and external aid, the level
of net reserves is projected to be equivalent to about 2.5 months of imports
at the end of 1976 and to remain at this level during the remainder of the
decade, when the balance of payments may reemerge as a serious constraint
on Tunisia's development.
10.       The recent changes in Tunisia's balance of payments position and
in Government savings do not call for a substantial revision in development
strategy. They suggest rather that Tunisia should continue its efforts to
achieve high investment and GDP growth rates. Since workers' emigration to
Europe and Libya is now limited, the effort to increase investment, particu-
larly in labor-intensive industry and agriculture, should be increased. With
an adequate savings level and continuing external aid, the Tunisian economy
has the financial resources that should enable it to sustain an average an-
nual growth rate of between 7 and 8 percent during 1976-80. The level of
future growth would also depend on continuing efforts to stimulate private
investment, to increase the international competitiveness of industry, and
to improve the planning and implementation of public investments.
11.       Tunisia has made impressive social gains.    By 1974, primary school
enrollment had reached 88 percent, and secondary enrollment, 19 percent, of
the relevant age-groups. Public health services have been greatly expanded
with many provided free. A family planning program has been introduced. To-
tal social expenditures during 1970-75 increased by about 10 percent per an-
num and on average accounted for 9 percent of GDP and for 30 percent of to-
tal public expenditures. Nonetheless, major social issues remain. Further



- 4 -
progress is needed in land reform and in creating employment. The unemploy-
ment rate was estimated at 18 percent in the non-agricultural sectors in
1975, and underemployment in the rural sector is high. There has been a
growing concentration of productive activities in a few urban areas, espe-
cially in Tunis.
12.       So far as can be judged from available data, real incomes increased
in all sectors during the 1960's, yet by a higher percentage in the modern
sector than in the rural sector, due partly to the series of poor harvests.
In rural areas substantial income disparities remain, in part as a result of
the structure of land tenure. In the modern sector, especially in industry,
increases in real incomes in the 1960's exceeded the rise in productivity;
the income distribution trend has favored industrial workers. Thanks espe-
cially to the income redistribution effects of free social services, the pro-
portion of the total population living in poverty, as defined by the Tunisians
(i.e. earning less than D 70 per capita annually at 1970 prices), was substan-
tially reduced during the decade. About 90 percent of this group continues
to live in rural areas. Since 1970, higher agricultural output, increases in
minimum agricultural wages, tax exemptions for low incomes, the inflow of
workers' remittances from abroad and the stabilization of basic commodity
prices through Government subsidies have improved the absolute, and possibly
also the relative, position of the poorest groups.
13.       During 1970-75, agriculture provided nearly half of total employ-
ment, 29 percent of merchandise exports and 14 percent of GDP. Food process-
ing accounted for another 3 percent of GDP and over a third of value added in
manufacturing. During this period agricultural production rose substantially,
largely as a result of favorable weather. The potential for further growth
is clear. While large infrastructure investments were made during the last
decade, current policy emphasizes projects that make a rapid and direct con-
tribution to production and recognizes various constraints on agricultural
development: absentee ownership, insecurity of tenure, inadequate access to
agricultural credit, inadequate extension services, insufficient agricultural
education, and underutilization of irrigation investments. Under the Fourth
Plan, more than $140 million has been allocated to a rural development pro-
gram which has been executed by the provincial administrations.
14.       Since the early 1960's Tunisia has obtained relatively large amounts
of official aid. A Consultative Group provides a forum for aid-coordination
among major donors (see para. 23). During 1970-74, annual loan commitments
from public sources averaged $136 million, or about $26 per capita. About 69
percent of these commitments came from bilateral public sources, chiefly from
France (14 percent), the United States (13 percent), and the Federal Republic
of Germany (11 percent); about 12 percent of bilateral public assistance came
from oil-producing countries, whose share rapidly increased from 8 percent in
1970 to 26 percent in 1974. Commitments from the Bank Group during 1970-74
accounted for 29 percent of total public commitments. Most aid has been ob-
tained on concessionary terms: during 1970-74, the average terms of borrow-
ing from bilateral sources were 3.5 percent interest and 23 years to maturity,
including 6 years of grace; from multilateral sources, they were 6.0 percent



- 5 -
interest and 26 years to maturity, including 5 years of grace. During the
same period Tunisia also received annually some $40 million in grants. Loan
commitments from private sources average $32 million a year. Direct foreign
private investment has been comparatively small, but recently it has picked
up momentum following increased activity in the petroleum sector and new in-
centives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing. Thus, net direct
foreign investment increased from $19 million in 1970 to $76 million in 1975.
15.       Tunisia's total public debt outstanding (including undisbursed) in-
creased from $846 million in 1970 to $1,444 million at the end of 1974. The
disbursed portion outstanding at the end of 1974 was $956 million, equivalent
to 27 percent of GDP, compared with 40 percent in 1970. Debt service pay-
ments in 1975 were 7.8 percent of export earnings compared with 19.5 percent
in 1970. This significant decline in the debt service ratio was mainly due
to the sharp increase in export earnings following the changes in world mar-
ket prices in 1973 and 1974. In the future, Tunisia will have to continue to
rely heavily on foreign financial assistance in order to reach its develop-
ment goals. While Tunisia is capable of servicing substantial additional
debt on less concessionary terms than in the past, it nonetheless should con-
tinue to seek a large part of its externaL resources on concessionary terms
in order to prevent the debt service ratio from rising above 20 percent in
the long-run.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TUNISIA
16.       Since 1962, Tunisia has received a total of twenty-five loans and
ten credits amounting respectively to $314.9 million and $65.7 million, net
of cancellations and refundings. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of August 31, 1976, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The Bank's lending strategy aims at supporting Government efforts
to (a) increase employment, (b) encourage more balanced growth and distribu-
tion of income among regions and income groups, and (c) promote export-
oriented policies and investments. The key supporting feature of this lend-
ing strategy is to encourage Tunisian authorities in timely and well-coordi-
nated preparation of projects, with emphasis on technical assistance. The
Bank is also cooperating with Government efforts to increase the mobiliza-
tion of domestic and foreign resources, in part through encouraging project
co-financing; the latter is particularly important in view of the extent of
Tunisia's external resource needs, the large scale of many priority projects,
and the limited availability of Bank resources. This latter effort is sup-
ported through the Consultative Group (see para. 23).
18.       Within this broad framework, past Bank Group lending has emphasized
support for long-term investments in infrastructure and social development.
Lending for urban and social development, including water supply, education,



- 6 -
family planning and the Tunis urban planning and public transport project has
accounted for 33 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia. Lending for
transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for a further 33
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 12 percent of total commit-
ments. Industrial and hotel financing through the Banque de Developpement
Economique de Tunisie has accounted for 16 percent, and the Gafsa phosphate
development project received 6 percent of total commitments. While there
have been some problems, project implementation on the whole has been satis-
factory. In a number of sectors, important institutional improvements have
been achieved and independent agencies have been created or strengthened.
19.       In agriculture, Bank involvement in several sub-sectors has met in
some cases with success, in others with difficulties. The first agricultural
project financed by the Bank Group was the 1967 Cooperative Farm Project,
completed in 1973 after substantial delays and revisions caused by changes in
Government agricultural policy in 1969. Funds for the First Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan/Credit 779/263-TUN, US$8 million) of 1971 should be
fully disbursed by the end of 1976 (see para 40). A 1971 IDA credit for a
Fisheries Project (Credit 270-TUN, US$2 million), aimed at development of
Tunisia's inshore fisheries, is expected to be fully disbursed in 1977. A
loan for an Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (Loan 1068-TUN, US$12.2 mil-
lion) became effective in September 1975; project execution is in its early
stages. Beginning in 1972, the Bank has also attempted to play a more active
role in rural development in Tunisia, initially in connection with the
Sedjenane Livestock and Rural Development and the Central Tunisia Integrated
Rural Development Projects. Ultimately, however, both projects had to be
dropped from the program because of the poor resource base in the project
areas and the resulting low economic rates of return. This experience
served to underline the necessity for very close coordination and careful
preparation of future projects in this difficult but high priority sphere.
20.       Lending in the current fiscal year and the period ahead will seek
to approach the problems of rural and regional development increasingly
through an emphasis on projects promoting agricultural and industrial produc-
tion and urban and social development. Complementary to this primary focus,
the program would also finance selected priority projects in infrastructure,
particularly in power and roads. Thus, the proposed Sidi Salem Multi-purpose
project, to be processed in the current fiscal year, would consist of: (i)
construction of the Sidi Salem dam and reservoir providing for water for pot-
able, industrial and irrigation purposes; (ii) construction of an interconnec-
tion canal to the urban areas of Tunis and eventually Sousse; and (iii) ir-
rigation infrastructure for some 10,000 ha. To meet the rising demand for
power, a second power project is expected to be presented to the Executive
Directors later this year. Other projects under discussions with the author-
ities include a fourth Water Supply, a second Fisheries, Rural Roads, and
development finance. Further direct lending for priority industrial sub-
sectors in which Tunisia has a comparative advantage will depend on progress



- 7 -
achieved in the formulation of sound projects. In addition, an economic mis-
sion to review the Fifth Plan, scheduled for late Fall 1976, is expected to
examine the Government's rural development plans in an effort to identify
areas where Bank lending could be focused.
21.        The Bank Group accounted for about 17 percent of disbursements of
official assistance to Tunisia between 1970 and 1974; its share is expected
to decrease, while that of other, particularly Arab, sources of funds will
rise. The Bank Group's shares in total debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1974 (including loans from private sources) and in debt service during
1974 were 17 percent and 12 percent respectively. over the rest of the dec-
ade, the Bank Group's share in disbursecl external debt is expected to decrease
to below 10 percent, as will its share in debt service.
22.        IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in Banque de
Developpement Economique de Tunisie, in Compagnie FLnanciere Touristique (a
company to promote and invest in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et
lioteliere RYPI (a large hotel development) and in Industries Chimiques du
Fluor, which will produce aluminium fluoride from local fluorspar for export.
IFC's most recent investment, in May 1975, was in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. Including Sousse-Nord, IFC's net commitments in
Tunisia -otal $15.9 million.    The Board has recently approved the sale of IFC
shares in NPK Engrais to the Tunisian Government.
23.        Since 1962 the Bank has chaired the Consultative Group for Tunisia
bringing together the principal donor countries and the institutions concerned
with the country's development. The most recent meeting of the Group was held
in Paris in June 1975. New participants in the Group included Saudi Arabia,
Japan, the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development and the Commission
of the European Communities.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
24.        Although Tunisia's agricultural resource base is quite poor, the
sector plays an important role in the economy. In 1975, agriculture employed
over one hialf of the labor force, contributed about 16 percent of GDP and
provided some 20 percent of total exports. About one third of Tunisia's total
land -Area, or about 5.3 million ha, is classified as cultivable; the remainder
is r.-;ge land suitable for extensive sheep-grazing and low-yielding forest,
and cesert. The cropped area covers about 3.1 million ha, of which 1.3 miLlion
ha are under perennial crops, and 110,000 ha, or 3.5 percent, are equipped for
irrigation. The most important agricultural areas are the lower and central
Medjerda River Valley and the Cap Bon peninsula in the North, and the coastal
zones near Sousse and Sfax.



- 8 -
25.       Agriculture failed to keep pace with the rest of the economy in
the 1960s due largely to unusually low rainfall, the departure of large
numbers of expatriate farmers, heavy emphasis on infrastructure investments
(particularly irrigation infrastructure) which yield benefits only in the
very long term, weaknesses in extension and other supporting services, dif-
ficulties in resolving a variety of land tenure issues, and the unsuccess-
ful attempt to form viable production cooperatives. When the cooperative
experiment, which was intended eventually to include all private farms, was
abandoned in late 1969, 4.5 million ha were returned to private ownership;
another 800,000 ha were allocated to State management. Despite major prob-
lems associated with the return to private ownership, agricultural production
in 1971 and 1972 increased by 27 and 30 percent, respectively, in constant
prices over the two preceding years. The average annual growth of agricul-
tural production between 1970 and 1975 was 10.5 percent, although crop cycles,
particularly of olives, caused erratic yearly fluctuations. Nonetheless, ex-
cluding olive production, Tunisia's trade balance in agricultural products
was heavily in deficit in this period. In 1975, agricultural exports, exclud-
ing olive oil, represented only about 10 percent of total farm output while
agricultural imports (mainly cereals, dairy products, meat and sugar), having
doubled in value between 1973 and 1974, represented an estimated 17 percent
of total imports. Thus, one of the major objectives of the Fifth Plan (1977-
81) is self-sufficiency in food production, defined as meeting expected in-
ternal consumption needs in grains, meat and milk (or per annum increases of
6.7, 11 and 17.5 percent respectively) and attaining a balanced foreign trade
in other agricultural products. Reaching the latter objective and that of
self-sufficiency in grains appears feasible; prospects for reaching the pro-
jected level of milk and meat production seem less likely.
Agricultural Credit Institutions
26.       The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for the overall evalua-
tion of credit needs of the agricultural sector. Credit is made available
through the banking system, particularly the Banque Nationale de Tunisie
(BNT) and the Caisses Locales de Credit Mutuel (CLCMs). The latter were
first created in Cap Bon in 1963 to promote savings and provide short-term
agricultural credit to people in rural areas who have difficulty obtaining
other institutional credit. Because of inadequate management, lack of full
Government support, and poor performance in collecting overdue loans, CLCMs
now play a relatively minor role, with the exception of those in the Cap Bon
and Sahel regions. In 1975, the Government created the Societes de Caution
Mutuelle (SCMs), possibly to replace the CLCMs, although no decision to this
effect has yet been taken. The SCMs would allow smaller farmers, who are SCM
shareholders, to borrow collectively from BNT, being jointly and severally
liable to the extent of the share held. At the end of 1975, 22 SCMs had been
created and 19 more were being created. Their average membership is 200, and
their average capital D 1,200. Several Government agencies provide short-
term credit in kind under specific programs (as part of an input package),
for producing a particular crop (grain or olives), or for a particular region.



- 9
Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT)
27.        BNT was created in 1959 as a semi-autonomous majority Government-
owned Bank primarily to provide agricultural credit but also more generally
to perform all traditional commercial banking and financial operations.      BN'I
is administered by an 11-man board whose members, representing Government,
state companies and the private sector, serve for six years. As the second
most important commercial bank in Tunisia, BNT has 28 agencies throuighotL ihe
country with a total staff of about 900, about 64 percent of which work iTl
Tunis. The staff is adequate for present operations but will need to be in-
creased for BNT to expand lending to the agricultural sector, particularlv
to small farmers (see para. 46). The Government has agreed to make avail-
able to BNT the required technical staff for implementing the proposed proj-
ect and particularly for appraising and supervising sub-projects unLder the
small farmer credit component (Draft Guarantee Agreement. Section 3.04).
BNT's internal organization is generally satisfactory althoughl, from 1969 to
1974, a rapid succession of presidents caused a lack of continuLty in BNT's
overall development policy.
28.        BNT's paid-in capital, which was increased from D 0.4 million in
1965-67 to D 4 million at the end of 1975, derives from Government (25 per-
cent), state-controlled companies and cooperatives (44 percent), CLCMs (17
percent) and private shareholders (14 percent). Reserves have not kept pace
with the growth of deposits and lending, but other st:andard financial ratios
are satisfactory.
29.       BNT's resources fall irto two categories:     normal and special.
Normal resources, which accounted for D 109 million at the end of 1975, in-
clude deposirs, capital and free reserves, and rediscount facilities. Spe-
cial resources, which amounted to D 42 million committed at the end of 1975,
comprise BNT external borrowings and managed funds, the latter of which con-
stitute the bulk of special resources. These include mostly Government funds
(FOSDA: Special Fund for Agricultural Development, see para. 33) and foreign
aid.
30.       BNT's equity investments are mostly.in other financial institutions
(43 percent) and in.;agroindustries (122 percentt)..  BNT's equity portfolio has
more than trebled overwthe,last,f ive years, reaching D 1.5 million in Septem-
ber 1975.   By carefuliradministration of, lending!operations from its on fLunds,
BNT has beenrabilerto-±generat'eta.sizable profit-every year.  Although the in-
terest rate level-_in;Tunisia is lowr(-sjee.-para. 36), BNTs resource and operar-
ing costs have also,been very low,lallowing an:,average spread of between 2.7%
to 3.3% oftotalJassets,-,which is reasonab,lec Recovery procedures appear
thorough and methodica;I the,average repayment rate for short-term loans out
of BNT's own funds'iwas.,76.7 percent.for individuals and 91.5 percent for co-
operatives, and out of special resources (medium and long-term) 71.2 percent
for individuals and-68,.-2,percent for cooperatives in 1975. Provisions against
losses are largepand, in general sufficient to-cover *those risks associated
with BNT's exposure in the agricultural sector (about 30 percent of outstand-
ing loans from BNT's own funds and participations), as well as against m iscel-
laneous risks.



ar :, .*:11                     ru'*'    'z' Z-LtflTk ancd mari'-
- .:,..  -;:. : v :ri  . *.rn bll7 ±tL  .; *,  ,  :L jl'  ' .i  t  .r v.  h6  S ;.ct  >  ni'~r^-
b,iL                      b C  r)   O    DT It - 
.        os  he  ;      b t.6  ; . ral t,?^-;    :      L'L     '''ii.  " -'
.~~~~7  , `.   .  _   . .  .  . .......... 
t  1-  i:'. n  ;:i  .tl.  -=.  I ~ 1 ?l  tt#_.  .  _  t'.t; t ,Stl  I ir.J:-. .l'd ol,taitio,'  t-' 
*:.. '.t  a   t s wnuld !,,. aidited by a  indm'il ' -leLt auditor accept-
.-  t  b I,a BklN'  iLed iewi h tl!&i5,i coiw!tY 1  ' ; ' b;:c haginning in
:' l. .j I 'Ili.ti of c.&ternal awIAIiting deéteri-rui '  -me unsatisfactory.
'''.'i   i*e dic..S:,eJ 6.lds  tltit BNT  nang:gment.  BNT i-,rced during nego-
..h propeid loan LhéR.. t   m,' i. .t    -        : Lependent auditor
. Ab * u i..i'l}t.:'L  thi. Batnk ;. d 'that rt . au_i t -tl t ;miH ''   %!,%Léted no later
:   I52 r:.;L Is L .tfter thlLe c;ld ot; c l 'i ). V.  ,  ..... -t.cd to BNT's
.    ot'   D o tf CtO s (Dlrai't ILoan  kli.tr.-tnent, Seet.1c.i, 5.o,i!.
. .:-: 1 atl6as
.    c-extends  dic'rt, * i..ii n ed  Lou8-t. t: ired i  f ::dt I .t L , in-
-13- ard ci'lmerce0. Atr.hough AINT acLs as a chxapiel tfo. _,St       C.\ve
-::,: .)amS a;nid grants to agrieultureé, it maikes loants to -i.6; It.10;I ia  .)'.,
L ! (Iids.  theSe  a. Li! are J1aloAu!t. cxcluLv a iy js l.Yt't.tY :ii'. t I L C t.( Largi-g:
*  *trs hvcrage lodani 1; I, 600) anr. ccooperdtiVeS.nt.&.2e   it.-' *  i-(rtF
c rt t1 it range bhetw,e-;a 6 and! 7  c*  .  SnlllaLI.C-r fai:.--.:A.; .- .
',ui  in  ts;h tihrougih che CLC(M6 "a.,rage loan 1 27Y?5).   1 ,   i :  ,
--V.A.I.od 6b ,ut 1) 8 miltion inL short-t rsi itoans to 12,006 f.c.  (a ij7 ,
t*''; } ';Xdinilllonl wIiti fromn B14T, indv almotizL ent.: e.ly -L ro;rt i--w.b;,t. 3
.. tu~iCt't agencies (c.redit in kind) provided aboit¢ D 6 xril iiti l  40 ,).
riucs.  Based on tht.-ie figures, onLy about' 15 '.eercent ,,: rl twUmisiatw
... -rhv.-1 acncngs rto shorc.-ter.v credi.t. In vch add' In 12 . '; J .ui  I
e . reu.t in catl.t Small t--r acce£;8 iS ev      l',n ii ai:,  :1 -
..iauo. Led sorige 1;i.300 aiediulv- .ni long-t.4.-iu f oan ni .al -a raat1 to .a;.I
; .Lue:  8.5 peicent co coopera ii2s, aad the .:est t;. ^       .` :s.-vr  for a
a  of D 1 4 mill,iorL . i'1ow*-ver, . . ss than 5 pei-'-enc of ,.sle  L L  . - E'' .r: wiulS
..('d ztroa BNT's oa w. resourc,as; ~:hith are ased almost. A.. L: .   * .V t  .
.*.' :.t il' `ndt:try .i.!' commer) tV.
Ove2r 7e)pr ;l. o; M54,17`^, u!C:_i knil- and L,,L,t.:. ..:k .., -Z.'
1'~.2J by  CG  :).rnn.w t, .p   iCt.     ik. .)
ß'it,..Y...C d  'by iiL tpor -nit.  sEr  .r; UO; u1:tc%. a   e;  r' i4  ',  .:;  .  'A I.  ; I
I '11     or; .o r Agrir...r.  l  i      {  ' ,; 1    s         ,,
2. %t ..  exclasively thr.ough iSNT.  .I,iS i Und is L16S-d fOI t.U. .1.: t  IL.n eS tit:fnL
,. ;   tor loans t.. sotma sm a I1 buLt rtiostly mtedJitirm-sl l c. t tern,  3 !t.S
.:. .- i-uc IX',.DA fundds, .'_e :e' i.1 'btwee'n 3 a31ti .* _.5 ptr-., .o   $ -i s.x
* ..'  t:o t:':e life -..): Lhe   jaant. friii 2 rt. 25 y         ir 
..a"~~~' (.tLO  65  Tc -L.  lu  . *        lq)p  tot-,
i..I.L%Ii {'1itg D 1. * 3 i l.i-n to 't-, U 1a..fe to abow. 3 5.  i ,  :l'
.i;t\, j bi loans and D) )7,000  8Z.'-iL. were :fl.de av-_3  i . :se  te ?.. - pe;
.   7he azverage FO-DA loan i  1 6i 2 for pjciv,re f, . .tc :
''      '.fS sectoral cli strlbittb  of oredit ext-otecicd! h9    !j
.,  pS.,',,rt   .-'  'e'Ariy  t   i'.:  tL1 :r '  ':-  ,  ?:.i  ;,c   .*s .f ;   . . ....~  



- 11 -
banking criteria. The north received about 90 percent of all loans disbursed
in 1975. Agro-industrial enterprises are on the whole well supplied with
both short-term and investment credit: they receive about 20 percent of the
short-term credit supplied to manufacturing industries. Investment credit to
agro--industries is provided mostly by BNT, Banque de Developpement Economique
de Tunisie and Societe Tunisienne de Banque.
Agricultural Credit Policies
35.       Tunisia's credit system, as described above, has encountered serious
institutional and policy problems. The following paragraphs describe these
problem areas and various proposals agreed to by the Tunisian authorities for
dealing with them. The Government and BNT have recognized for some time the
need to institute basic improvements in agricultural lending practices, par-
ticularly with respect to reaching more small farmers and increasing the eco-
nomic and financial soundness of agricultural lending operations through re-
view of interest rates and risk bearing and improved appraisal and supervi-
sion. In FY75, a dialogue was begun with the Government in the context of
the Irrigation Rehabilitation project (Loan 1068-TUN) on the need to under-
take a study to improve agricultural credit policies in Tunisia. A draft
study addressing the policy issues has been prepared and reviewed, with Bank
assistance, by a Government Commission. Draft decrees reflecting the conclu-
sions of the study are awaiting final Government approval, and FOSDA credit
terms and conditions would be revised to incorporate these conclusions (see
para. 36 and 37). Under the proposed loan, major reforms will be instituted
with respect to sub-loans financed by the Loan, and in addition, substantial
improvements will also be put into practice in lending under the FOSDA pro-
gram.
36.       Interest Rates.   The first problem results from the Government deci-
sion to provide special incentives for agricultural development through low
interest rates on agricultural credit, Government subsidies and grants. This
has placed a heavy burden on the Government budget.    Low interest rates on
medium and long-term lending to agriculture have also led the banks to invest
their funds in more remunerative operations such as lending to industry or
short-term lending to agriculture.   Several credit sources are available to
farmers for the same types of investment at different terms and conditions,
and as a result, credit demand concentrates on funds with low interest rates.
Under the First Agricultural Credit project, the proceeds of the Bank loan
earmarked for dairy development were underutilized because of competing FOSDA
funds. The Government remedied this situation in 1975 when it clef[ned more
clearly credit eligibility criteria to be applied to dairy farmers under the
Bank-financed project. During negotiations on the proposed loan, the Govern-
ment agreed to increase interest rates on medium and long-term concessional
Loans from 3-4.5 percent to 6 percent and to establish selected investment
grants and farmer contributions to encourage small farm investments; tile aver-
age maturity of sub-loans would conform to the expected development period of
the investment and would vary from 5 to 8 years, except for date palm planta-
tions (15 vears) and deep wel1 drilling (20 years) (Draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, para. C). Tnterest rates on loans to commercial farmers, defined



- 12 -
as those farmers whose income exceeds the limait set for the small farmers
category (see para 37), would be 7 percell: no subsidies or grants can be
made available to these farmers; for agro-indtustrial borrowurs, the interest
rate would be 8 percent.   Repayment periods for sub-loans to larger farnmers
and agro-industrial borrowers would vary fiom 5 to 7 years, depending on the
type of investment financed, with a one to three-year grace period (Draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. D).
37.       Small farmer credit organization.    The secoaid prJ'-epm results from
inadequate lending policies for concessionary small Farmer credit. The lack
of criteria to determine farmers' eligibility for concessionary investment
credit has contributed to diverting concessionary credit to larger farmers.
Small farmer access to credit has further been limited, partly due to the
limited available resources and partly to the lack of adequate security for
loans. During negotiations on the proposed loan, an understanding was
reached with the Government that the small farmer category would be defined
on the basis of a net income per farm family of about D 600 (about US$1,400),
or $240 per capita per annum. In addition, the Government agreed that types
of investments and cropping patterns would be taken into account in determin-
ing sub-borrower and sub-project eligibility (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule
4, para. B). The Government also agreed that adequate security arrangements
would be made to ensure that small farmers who did not have valid titles to
tneir land, but merely a possession certificate, are not denied access to
-redit (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, para. F). The above definition
ind interest rates agreed upon during negotiations (see para. 36) would be
applied to the Bank financed project. As a condition of loan effectiveness,
the Government would amend the FOSDA regulations to bring them in line with
the terms and procedures agreed for project on-lending (paras. 36 and 37),
(Draft Loan Agreement, Section 7.01). In addition, the Government agreed to
unsure that no agricultural lending would take place at terms and conditions
that would adversely affect project on-lending (Draft Guarantee Agreement,
Section 3.08).
38.       Risk coverae.    Thirdly, small farmer credit administration through
FOSDA has been poor because BNT does not bear the repayment risk on managed
funds, including FOSDA. As a result, appraisal of FOSDA-financed sub-proj-
ects has been cursory. BNT staff appraise sub-loans on which BNT bears the
repayment risk, namely those made from its own resources, from the Bank Group
and from USAID funds; for loans from other sources, it makes only a credit-
worthiness study of the prospective borrower. Under the proposed project,
BNT would allocate part of its own resources for medium and long-term lending
to small farmers. BNT would, in addition, assume 10 percent annually of the
default risk on sub-loans committed to small farmers during the first two
years of project execution, and thereafter increase risk coverage to 25 per-
cent annually (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 4 para. E). The Government
intends gradually to pass on to all agricultural lending institutions in
Tunisia (including BNT) the default risk on their lending operations.



- 13 -
39.       Consolidation of short-term credit institutions.     The fourth prob-
lem is the multiplicity of credit institutions. Agricultural credit policy
at the nntional level has lacked clarity, and there are several credit insti-
tutions with overlapping responsibilities (see para. 26). Their roles at
national and local levels are not clearly defined, nor is there a central
authority to coordinate credit activities of these institutions.      Duplication
of work, and sometimes, conflicts of authority have often resulted. The
Central Administration has not been able to control credit, or to provide
much policy guidance to regional and local institutions.     The Government
clearly recognizes the problem, and has been reviewing measures to consoli-
date short-term credit institutions in the context of the agricultural credit
policy study.   These measures would include:    (i)  an increase in BNT's role
as the main agricultural credit Bank; (ii) extension of short-term credit
through the newly-created Societes de Caution Mutuelle (SCM) and possibly,
strengthening of existing Caisses Locales de Credit Mutuel (CLCts) to serve
as additional short-term credit agencies; and (iii) termination of various
credit-in-kind programs sponsored by Government agencies.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.        The Government of Tunisia requested and obtained Bank assistance in
1971 through the First Agricultural Credit Project (Ln/Cr 779/263-TUN) to in-
crease grain and milk produccion through mechanization and modernization of
large farms in northern Tunisia, and to develop date palm plantations in the
desert southwest. The project also provided technical assistance to help
strengthen BNT's capability as an agricultural credit institution.      After
difficulties in the first years of project implementation, BNT's performance
under the loan has been satisfactory: BNT's appraisal and supervision proce-
dures have improved and repayment performance on Project sub-loans hias been
high. All Bank/IDA funds have now been committed; the Credit has been fully
disbursed and the proceeds of the Loan are expected to be fully disbursed by
end 1976. BNT and the Government have now requested a second loan. Whereas
the first project benefitted principally commercial farmers and Societe
Tunisienne de l'Industrie Laitiere, a large semi-public company, the Second
project would aim to improve the standards of living of small farmers who, so
far, have had little or no access to institutional credit, and to strengthen
the participation of associations of small farmers, most of them in the pov-
erty target group, in the development of modern date palm plantations. The
project is also expected to introduce the institutional changes described in
paragraphs 36-38 above.
41.        The present project was prepared with the assistance of the FAOG/
IBRD Cooperative Program, and was appraised in November 1975. Negotia-
tior.s were held in September 1976. The Tunisian delegation was led by tMr.
Ezzedine Chelbi, Chef de Cabinet of the Mlinister of Agriculture. A report
entitled "Appraisal of a Second Agricultural Crredit Project in Tunisia" (No.



- 14 -
1133-TUN) dated October 22, 1976 is being distributed separately to the Exe-
cutive Directors. A Loan and Project Summary is attached as Annex III.
The Project
42.       The proposed project consists of a two-year lending program for on-
farm development of small and commercial farms, and investment in agro-indus-
tries, and a four-year lending program for smallholder date palm plantation
development, to be financed as part of BMT's mediun and long-term agrictil-
tural credit program. Under the project, medium and long-term credit would
be extended to:
(i) small farmers for purchase of cross-breed dairy heifers
and draft animals, and construction of irrigation and
well improvements mainly for small farmers in the North
and Northeast; SONAMO, a national company providing
tractor and harvesting services for small farmers, and
qualifying service cooperatives would also receive credit
for financing light agricultural equipment;
(ii) commercial farmers for grain, vegetable, fruit and dairy
production and for overall farm development; investments
under this category would be made for purchase of heavy
farm machinery, pure breed dairy heifers, ancillary build-
ings, irrigation infrastructure and well construction and
improvements;
(iii) small farmers' associations for date palm development, in-
cluding groundwater development (deep wells) with irriga-
tion and drainage networks, land levelling and preparation,
planting and maintenance of date palms, and windbreaks and
ancillary machinery and infrastructure for four plantations
of between 50 ha and 75 ha each in the Djerid and Nefzaoua
areas of Southwest Tunisia; and
(iv) agro-industrial enterprises for the construction of 18
olive oil mills, and possibly other agro-industries such
as an olive cake extraction mill and a tomato preserve
and concentrate factorv.
Cost Estimates and Financing
43.        The total project cost is estimated at USS26.3 million with a for-
eign exchange component of about US$12.0 million, or 45 percent. This cost
includes 37.4 percent of the base project cost for price contingencies, and
5 percent of base cost on average for physical contingencies. As a percent
of the total base cost, the small farm component comprises 32 percent, large
farms 27 percent, date palm development for small farmers 21 percent, and
agro-industries 20 percent.



- 15 -
44.       The proposed loan of US$12 miLiLon would finance the foreign ex-
change cost of sub-projects under the Project. The contribution of small
farmer borrowers would average 20 percent of investment cost; that of commer-
cial farmers and agro-industrial borrowers not less than 30 percent of the
project cost; that of the date palm plantations not less than 15 percent of
all investments other than well drilling, and not less than 10 percent of
cost of wells. BNT would finance from its own resources 25 percent of the
subloan amounts to all categories of subborrowers, except for date planta-
tions. This component, which requires financing of up to 7 years in line
with the growth cycle of date palms, would be financed by the Government, as
Central Bank regulations prohibit BNT from extending loans with a term ex-
ceeding 7 years. The Government's contribution, including grants for small
farmers and for date plantations, would amount to $5.6 million, or 39 per-
cent of local costs, and would be channelled through BNT.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       Farmers will purchase agricultural equipment of their choice
through existing local channels, which are competitive and can provide neces-
sary servicing facilities. Procurement of machinery and equipment for olive
oil mills would also he t!rough local channels on the basis of the best offer
out of not less than three. tlost of the cross-breed and pure breed in-calf
heifers would be procured from either Government or private local dairy farms
or, if necessary, imported through existing channels. Contracts for well
drilling (about US$0.8 million) under date plantation development would be
awarded after local competitive bidding advertised in Tunisian nawspapers
(Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (a)(ii)); grouping of the drilling con-
tracts would be required where feasible. Purchase and installation of pump-
sets, costing in total about US$200,000, would be procured through existing
commercial channels. Disbursements by BNT, depending on the phasing of in-
dividual subprojects, would range from one to seven years. The Bank loan
would be disbursed over about four and one half years, against 75 percent of
all subloans disbursed under the project during the first four years.
Project Implementation
46.        BNT would implement the project with the assistance of: technical
departments of the Ministry of Agriculture (Draft Guarantee Agreement, Sec-
tion 3.04). BNT has agreed to employ specialist staff in adequate numbers to
help carry out the Project (Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (b)). The
larger farm and agro-industry subprojects would be appraised and supervised
by BNT technical staff; this staff would be assisted by regional agricultural
officers in the appraisal and supervision of loans to small farmers' associa-
tions and individual smalL farmers. BNT has also agreed to set up, with Gou-
ernment assistance, an investment monitoring system to measure, on a sample
basis, the benefits derived from subloans by sub-borrowers (Draft Loan Agree-
ment, Section 3.05 (a)).



- 16 -
Terms and Conditions
47.        Farmer eligibility for concessional development credits and Govern-
ment grants will be determined by the new criteria agreed to during negotia-
tions (see para. 37 above). Purchase of tractors and heavy agricultural
machinery would not qualify for concessional lending terms except in the case
of SONAMO and those service cooperatives serving small farmers. The Govern-
ment and BNT agreed during negotiations to provide subborrowers with short-
term credit for input financing, from existing short-term credit institutions
(Draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.05; Draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
48.        The size of subloans to small farmers would follow the proposed new
FOSDA regulations. Changes in ceilings on these subloans, would be subject
to prior Bank approval. Subloans under this category would not exceed the
difference between the aggregate amount of concessionary credit received by
subborrowers and 5,000 Dinars (about US$12,000) (Draft Loan Agreement, Sched-
ule 4, para. B 4). BNT agreed during negotiations that no sub-loans would be
made to SONAMO without prior Bank approval. In addition, ceilings on project
subloans would not exceed, without prior Bank approval, about US$120,000 for
commercial farmers, about US$72,000 for service cooperatives, and about
US$240,000 for small farmer associations and agro-industrial borrowers (Draft
Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, paragraph 3). The maximum aggregate amount of all
sub-loans to SONAMO and service cooperatives would be $1,500,000. Finally,
funds earmarked for small farmers under categories (i) and (iii) (see para.
42) would not be transferred to other beneficiaries without prior Bank ap-
proval (Draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1, para. 4). The rate of interest on
all subloans to small farmers would be 6 percent for all categories of invest-
ment. Subloans for date palm development would be made available under the
project only to the small farmer associations, and would cover maintenance
during the first seven years. The interest charges, also at 6 percent, would
be borne by the Government during the non-productive period of development.
The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk on the proposed loan
(Draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03).
49.        BNT would carry 100 percent of the risk on outstanding subloans to
commercial farmers and agro-industries. For lending to small farmers, the
Government and BNT will share the risk on such lending as indicated in para.
38 above. The Government agreed periodically to reimburse BNT the differen-
tial between the sub-project on-lending rates and the Bank's interest rate,
and to pay a compensatory commission, equal to 3 percent of the portion of
outstanding Bank-financed loans, to cover BNT's project-related administra-
tive expenses and bad debts provisions (Draft Guarantee Agreement, Section
3.06 (a) and (b)).
Benefits and Justification
D50.      With the exception of olive oil and dates, the incremental agricul-
tural production expected under the project will be consumed locally; local
-arketing facilities are adequate. About half of the dates produced would
&e exported; no marketing difficulties are foreseen, considering the strong



- 1 7 -
demand for the Deglat date on the European market. It is expected that the
agreement signed by the Tunisian Government and the European Communities in
January 1976 to reduce import duties on olive oil should greatly facilitate
Tunisia's exports. Tunisia will, however, have to strive to improve the
quality and presentation of the product as well as diversify its markets.
51.       The project's average economic rate of return is 34 percent; indi-
vidual rates are 13 percent (date plantations), 36 percent (oil mills) and
38 percent (farm development). An increase of 10 percent in investment costs
and in.operating expenses would lower the overall rate to 29 percent for both
investment costs and operating expenses; a 10 percent decrease in benefits
would result in a 23 percent rate of return. Based on 1976 prices for inputs
and outputs, the financial rates of return on investments to be financed
under the project would range from 11 percent (date palm plantations) to over
50 percent (fruit and vegetable development). Under the assumption of a 10
percent drop in revenues, the lowest limit would become 4 percent; the higher
limit remains unchanged.
52.       The project would create an estimated 1,300 man years of additional
family labor in investments in farm development and date plantations and 350
jobs in oil mills. Sizable employment opportunities would also result from
associated forward and backward linkages. Additional foreign exchange earn-
ings would be generated from the improvements in the quality of exported
olive oil; these have not been quantified. Of the 1,235 farmers who would
benefit directly from the project, more than three-quarters would be small
farmers; they would receive 48 percent of the Bank loan and 53 percent of
the total investment cost. About 38 percent of the beneficiaries, including
members of small farmer associations, are in the rural poverty target group.
Non-quantifiable benefits would include support of institution building in
BNT and support of the trend toward improvement in agricultural credit poli-
cies and terms.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
53.       The draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Tunisia and
the Bank, the draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and Banque Nationale de
Tunisie, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4
(iii) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of a draft resolution approv-
ing the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors sepa-
rately. The draft agreements conform to the normal pattern of loans for
agricultural credit projects. Features of the loan of particular interest
are mentioned in paragraphs 36 through 38 and 44 through 49 of this report.
Additional condition of effectiveness of the proposed Bank loan would be that
(a) the Government adopt and implement the revised terms and conditions for
FOSDA (para. 36-37), and (b) BNT submit to the Bank a report of the audit of
its accounts and financial statement for 1975 and certified copies of its
audited financial statement for the same year.



- 18 -
54.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
55.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. MIcNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments
November 1, 1976



ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                  P~~~~a=ge 1of b pages
TUNISIA             - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KN2                  ------
---------------                     ~~~~~TUNISIA                        REFERENCE COUN4TRIES (1973)
TOTAL      1614.2                                      MOST RECENT
AAASLL      53 .3                      1960       1970   ESTIMATE          JO RDa,N       I RAQ         GRERFCF
GNP P"A CAPITA (liSt)                    210.0       320.0      460.0              320.0       570.0      1290.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
PIPIJLATION 13ID-YR, MILLICNI            4.2         5.1        5.5                2.3         9.4         6.9
POPULAT ION DENSITY
PER SQUARE Kv.                        26.0        31 .0      33.0               2 4.3       2 2.0      67.J
REk SQUAPE KM. ARABLF LAND              .         98.0      102.4                 .
VITAL STATISTICS
(I,U3' MIRTH HATE PER THUUSAND        46.0        36.0       36.0               49.0        49.0        16.5
CQAwFF D)EATHI RATE PEP THOUSAND      19.0        14.0       12.0               16.0        14.0         8.4
INFANT NOIlTALIIT PATE (/THIOU)                  125.0         ...                         104.1)      2 796
LIFE EXPELTANCY AT BIRTH CYRS)          ..        52.0       55.0               54.0        53.0    -   70. 4
GRCSS AFPRWUDIJL.TIUN RATE             3.1         3.4        3.4                3.5         3.5         1.0
POPIIJLALTION G,OMTH RATE It)
TOTAL                                  2.4         2. 1       2. 1               3. 5        3 .2       0 .6
LJR ANA..                                          3. 1/a      ...6.0O                                  2.1
LUP"AN POPFJLATICN I% OR TOTAL)         36.o'&/     40.O0 .b.                                 58.0        S3.3
ACE STRECTURE (PERCENT)
0 TOJ 14 TEARS                       42. 4      46.3 /b     4 5. 5             47. 0 /a   486.)       Z4.q
IN TO 64 YEAkS                        5 2. 6      50.2 IS    5 0.5              49.5 /a     48. 0      64.0)
btN YEA'S AND OVER                     5. 0        -3. 57     4.0                3. 527      4.0       1 1. 1
ACE IIEPEI4OENCY RtATIO                  0. 9        i .        tO.                1.          I[
FEONIMIE4l  S)EPENDENCY 'lAO 10          1.3 /amb    I                                            _7/_3  L
FA-ILY PLANNING-
ACLFPTCRA (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..       10.0.
tu1EPS It IOP MAPR (ED WOMEN)           ..        12.0...
P~PLIYMNI`4
TrITAL LABOR6 FORkCE I THOlISAND)     L400.0O/a   13100.0b   15UU.0              3 63 .0/a c 2700.0
LAIIOPi FRrTC  (IN AG ICIILTIIRFE 12)   6 9. 0 /a   57.0 /b    5 3.0              2 9.0 7W    52.0
kINPMP1_iY&I' IS r,E LAO'P FORCE)       10.0 7;     12.0 75     9.0                a.:0        6 .3
7 IF 0 (`VAIlE INCOMEF REC-D BY-
HIS;HE ST  5* ,F lPORIPULATION        22.         23/d          .
'flISHEST 'j* SF ROPULEATION          54. 8 fT    5 5.:5 74  
LriJIFST  207 lE P(IPULATION           3.0 7;      4. 2 7d      .                  .
LO. P MS  40 C  IIF POPULATION        Itc.* 7;      1I-4 7; .d 
PIS~,TQPI31r TI> -E 136I/NI CWNNEPSHIP
7 DaSh)- Ay TIYP 10? OF OWNERS            ..        53.0 /   ~   ...
S 'W'N~n  , SMALL FST 107 AW'IEA S        ..         0. 5  e       
'-IRAt TH- A,,)0 :,To) rvjN
PIOP'ltATllL  PER "HY'SICIAN         10000.U01d   5950. 0    5220. 0            2 680,. 0   327J.0      t230.3
P"1PiL A TIflN. PEW MUPSINO, PFWSCN        .       7 30. 0/f,  670              1 050.0     5440.0     (14J3.
WPIIPL AT INPET HO)SPITAL BED          360. 0 /e  410.027&    420.001            963.:0     520.3 J     160.
'EF P .AP I TA SUPPLY OF- -
CA11L:F ITS IT~ OF 0TOUIPEMENTS)      865.0       e6. 0      94.03              9 4 .      93.3D      116 .0
PROTEIN ll,AAMS PEW DAY)              54.U        54.0       67.0               60.0       62.J        9-p.o
-IF .-1ICH ANIMAL AN)) PULSE        13.0        14.0 A6                       I 15.o/d   1 7.0/b     52.3a
DEAl,' P ATE (/110101' AGFS 1-4           ..         1. 5 /b.S   .                 5.30/e
Dl.? ATP I INj
)3JIJSTrS 1,RIELMEIP.T SATE)I
'Of MARY SI-IflICJL                   7 4.0     107.0          ..73 3/a f                  69. 0      Ijo-nO
N,FC-'ADIAPY SC.IODL                   1. 0       20. 0                         3..  ___   25 .3       63.0J
PrARS 'IF 5fr1CEI_1jG P'lDVIIIE'O.~
iINIST A4511 SRCII'fl LEVEL)          i 3.01     13 .0       1 3.0              12.0       171.3       12.3
VOI. ATrI ,NA I EI.P 'LL MENT
l iF SF CONDARY I                    2 4.0       34.0         3. .0/a.f                     3.3J      23.3
4l  L,T' pAly 'ATT SI                  .           .        550.                          26.3        82.0
HOUS I NI,
PCPSONS PEP P, ROM (AVFRADGF              .          2. 7 /b     .
ClIlIE  WELLINDS WITHOUT
PIPED9 WATFR (T)                                 60.0 /b       .....
A,6CESS TOl LtFCTRICITY
It (4 Alt i,WELL(05INGS.                         24 .0 /b 
QUElL n,,.FLLIT.SS LIDNNECTCI)
TI' ELLE(TrOICIY I-I                     ....
III' iCAfv;_" (PEP THpi' PEP)       4 1. 0     77. 0       7 4. 0            11,0.0     180.0       111.3)
lAYNæ IlakS (411' ToOl, POP)        1. 0     1 3.0       1t6. 0              7. 0       7. 0        - 
IIC CT'IICTA I(-H/YR PEP LAP)           77. 0     1 55. 0     126.31.                       2 91.0     1 0732.)
1,5-SI' 11NT  I-T-/ YRk P16 P  16)       0 .3       0.1I        0.1 I.                        0. 3 
S' t''' æ, Axr I LEF1NI TI I5 [NS nlEV FR SE



ANNEX I
Page2of . pagee
otocretn 'cétC, ic's 'or1if refer to any year betwee  1959 and 1961, for 1973 between, 1968 and 197?, and for M4ost Recent Estimate between
-,Cca"     erlec-"d A, c" cijeottos country. on the haste of the size of its population, nediterracin geographica1lsituation and tts
cimilliity with, Tunisia's with reapet to national reoren           ake    ce.arculturlI an.d servirce       cici
~~Sz  ~   ~7~{ 10't-::;t of population under 15 and 55 and over to total labor forte;         /0  Per capita;    Id  1963;    le  1962, including
-  __  IcR, -6±.  /t, 1966;    Ic  Ratir of population cinder 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;       1d  Income reipient;     fe   Co-ering
-    to-':;       hectares of- pivate land, excluding o.8 million hectares in public -aershtp, and 2.ro.illion kect-are         of c-'loctooV
Dcil'Cff ES" YCi;7   'a  PatIo of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force;        /b  Personnel in government srie        only;
' Goevernent hospital establiahzaents.
A1         '     a   Te-Bnkoly;         .rc  Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to labor force age 17-59 yeatro       cc   12-59 yeare;    /d  1961-6;
-   'e   nf       f  lnclcding UN01WA sohools.                                                                      -_
po Ppulanoc under 15 and 65 and over to total laber force;        /n  1961-66.
R9, March 22, 1976
rTINTrtONS OF SOCIAL ThDICATORS
La  c   'cc   bn>8opulation per nuring person - Population divided by number of practicing
'ref: - -tel ecr:'-c nre. connricrg land ure       and inland waters,                     male and female graduate nurses, 'Itrained" or "Icertified'I nurses, and
____,'    4-ot -c ct astimats of land area used temporarily or paermanently                auxiliary personnel with training Or experienc..
'a o,pust-e, makct and ottohe      g,arden  or to lie fallow.           Popultiobopr hospital bed - Population divided by number of hospital beds
avilal    npbIc and pri-ate gerara1 and specialized hospital and
'cc It    US'1$) -2per -.laetimates at market prices, caloc-                        rehabilitoto-n centers; excludes nursing homso and establishments fur
-sae     cneso      -e'rod as World Sank Atlas (1972-7!. baist),                  custodial end preventive care.
'Per capita supply of calories (% of requcixreets) - Computed frm. eergy
n'-  !  ialsatcn                                                                  equivalent of net food sopplies vavilable i_n country per capita per day;
cc. MIlton' - iso  Jily first; if cot avaitoble, average             available supplies comprise dorasstco production. importA less      .orts,
'or "vi c-sc osti-atos.                                         an~~~~~~d changes in stook; net supplies exclude onimal feed, seeds, quatitieo
used to food processing sd lossin distribution; rs4ute-sts were
'c -c    i-5' cc- -  r scuar  Mc-    d-yea  population per square kilo-               estimated by PAO based on physiologica1 needs for noom     l activity
'orca-ec     o f icta.! aea.                                                   end health considering envto-nnnentnl tempera.ture, body weights, age and
a'in-nrsquare Ic- of arable laend - Computed as abov,e for             eex distributions of population, ucd allowing 10% for wants at household
-r bc     ol,level.
Pe'ait  upY of    tei  (grams car da)- Protein content of per
capita   et suppo  offoodparda;nesupply of fooda is defined no
7-'hoaner-  - Ir-ual lice births per thousand of mid-                 above; requirements for all countries established by USDA Fornomic
o"cc   .47aly five-year aneregee ending in 1960, 1970 and                 Research Services provide for a minimum allocane of 60 greant of total
cnc'w 'si-cries,                                      ~~~~~~~~protein per day, and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10
noa,    r 'n-easad - Ac,cual deaths per choueand of odd-year                  grams should be animal protein, those stadards are lewe        than those of
_-_ai:  i, -e.averagss ending in 1960, 1972 and 1975                   75 gr-m  of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein a.s, anavrage
.i-r""'rlon                                                               for tOe world, propose.d by PAO in the Third World Posod Sarcey.
___-__ I___ -___   An-u! deaths of infants under one year                Prcptpoeisu              lyfmanimal and pulse - Protein supply of fund
ear  o tirirs.                                        derived30H   frman 3oadpulesa in gramts per day.
c--      r   -ciirtr (yr' '    Average number of years of life remain-                     ra,h  te  thoa' a oe A--     .Anua deaths per thousand in age group 1-i
l''"-you      uv..rages endin,g in 1960, 1970 and                   years  to childre in    this uge group; suggested eas an indicator of -I--
0"""0'''f'rc          o                                                           nutrition.
________  _--         A_ -___ g  -umber of iv~e daughters      oa    will1
'r   e-dc i o ;  e mcd of she experiences present age-                Education
-oy'"  ll  ie'ear averages ending in 1960,                Adlusteenol       ntrco-piay            cha-       rnletfalages
c-nines                                                  pecetge o      prsr     schoo-agep poulation; includes ebildr,n aged
o o  . c' 'r"'  "a'e (5'  'otal ~,-Copound -,ruaI growth rates, of mid-          6-11 years but ad.3toid for different lengths if primary edtmtt..n
nac~.o     fo~r lz5l'?-,I  1 -C, and 196C to mast recant year.                   for countries with universal education, enrolloset may exceed 100%
'5  c -Computed like grcwth rate of total                 since some pupils    are below  or above th  official school age.
-: -'' 1  't  ~of urban areas may affect compare-               Ad_luted   noletrtIo .- secondary school - Computead as above; necood-
-mng tour-'ruo.                                                          ar   dcto       eursa       est foryears of approved prina-y instruc-
'Jr's  uoc~a  o  (5of total  -  tio of orhn to total population; dif-                 tiom; provides general, vocational or teacher training instruction      for
'OrOn' 4r           o rs of-bon areas nay affect comparability of data                  pupils of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses urn generally
v-nr",c -r-"-es.                                                                         excludedi.
kg,'-"'     '   necosit) -   hiclzb'en (f-li1 years) , worki:ng-age (15-6!. years),     Yerar of scholing provided (frt andsecond levels            Total years of
"er nc  oe'u     percentages of mid-year population,                scoln;       tscndr      %eel      naio         ' ntruton nat   epatal
-  's"ia  at's  ~~-I atio c  populattion  .oder 15 and 65 and ovr to               orcompletely excluded.
MeoItthc'ougn't                                                           Vocational enrollmet (9 of scnar)-Vocational insititutions include
doed-"rat,  - 0'ic vf popu,lecuon ''der 15 and 65 and over                 technical, industrial or ote      rgaswhc          prt     ndpnetyo
'cc1- agZr,       o   56   yastedepartmntrs.of secondar                                              institotIn.
- 'ot,orr  "'cv'cit~cc. tho;) - Cuculatice number of          Adutliteracy rts ()-Literatea~dults (able to read and aite) as per-
,icrcidevices 'odor aus p-ce   of national fanily                 centage of t,otal adult populatioc aged 15 years and ocer.
- seo  of -areyd.inner) - Percentages of mariedRusc
-cctg age '1    cyas       ha use hirtb-cootrol de-                      Persn ,e room (average) - Avera.ge number of parsos per room in occupsed
'rr:.ed wooer :-sano age group.                                           conventional dwe.llings -r   rbao areas; doellingo excmade 00n-permanent
structure   ad unoo-pid parts.
Occupied dulaliow   wtout piped water (9) - Occupied conventional dwell-
for (bcsae       -  oncmi-aily active persons, including                    ing  -c urban and rura   areas without inside or outside piped water
'-le" 'nc""  ore -cem    'd cu    -oc1o'i-g housewives, studests, atc.;                 facilitins as percetage of all onccopied dwellings.
or'','"  -a"oion, co,ntries are not coparable.                                  Access to electricit   (9 if alldellings) - Convectional dwellings       dith
ccoctoe(90  Agricultural labor force (in farming,                   elcriiy      nliig quartersas Pereto             oa     wilg      noa
ans 'ishitg   as se-oentage of total labor forceeandruraly areasv.                                         aeto'ttldli.                     b
o' lacr forco' -) temployed arc usually defined as persons                 Rural dwellings conneted to electricity()- Computed as above for rural
.iior  Ie and willing to tAke a  oh, out of a Job son a given day,                  delnsonly
''' -"dnt  ' o -on, acd seeking inch for a specified olniona
'on"' c  -, "xceeding coo esh.; nay not,be cnr,parable betweeni csun-                  Consum;ption
cc' e'   ciffe ccd definitions of unemployed and soc-rce of data,                Radio receivrer (Per thou pop) - ill types of receivers for radio bread-
-e'co.y-c   offIce sttstc,       aple surveys , compulsory sea-caste is general public par thousand of popu.iaton; excludes unlicensed
uicv-"r'  'nec-ance.                                              ~~~~~~~~~~receivers in countries and -c yearn, ten registration of radio sets wan
In effect; data for recasci years may not be comparable since most coon-
"'cv -     .nn ~~~~~- Prcectage of orAvate income (both in cash and                 tries abolished liosneng
er"cei-  b,Y rlcbcs' 5%. richest 20%, poorest 20%, and poorest                  P,:,g        as    ;~c,pp       - Passenger cars cmprise motor oars seating
Dco. e!to                                                                            esta      egtprs onsl excludes ambulances, hearses and military
sni  .c-erel'ip - ?--cntages of land osmnd by wealIthiest              E1sle.trl,ii4t,~,% ,os4LF op   - Annua   comsumption of industrial, conne-
n'  a-c-. cr0.                               ctaT,puhTi6"iiid'priv~~~t.aelectricity in kiloosti hours per capita; gen-
erally nosed on production data, without allownece for losses in grids
a' d ' 'rrnon                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~but allowing, for imports and export. of electric ity.
-  e  o- nec  -sic,yac - Pop':1.ia-cn livi    by number of practicing               Nwpit(gy           e   a)-Prcpt            nulonupioi              torc
"vs: lo"  i's1TU~.o.na   ooca   school at unierity level,                         estimated from domes.tic production plus eat imports of newsprint.



ANNEX I
TUNISIA - ECONOM.IC DEVEL0PIENT DATA SHRET
A-.1a             E-n           Erolee              1965-    1970-  1T975-    1977-
1-65     1970    1974     1975     1976    1 9 7 7  1981     1969    1974    -1979 _1981       1973
NATIONAI ACCOUNTS                         Door MIIi-on  at Const-n 1966 P--ce                    Ave-age A-nuol Coth R.ote    S6   o   DE
D-,toict P-od-ct               576      680      984   1,074    1.196    17268    19577    4,1      9 2      7 b     5 7      1M00
Cron  fro To-n of Trado             3       -        83      43       20       12       6      -        -        -                 4 0
G..o s Oor-t-tc- loo               3 3     680    1.067   1.117    1,216    1.280   1,583     4 3     11 1     5 9      5 4      104 13
l,ports (C7 -,d SF51)             167      189     305      320      350     386      A78     I 4     12 3     7 3      6 I       29 N
Oxports (C ond NFS3lInpo  -p.ilitY)  99  .-7  308      280      280      299     4372    7 7     16 N     2        9 I       26 I
8,',o,roo'7P              ~~~      ~~~      ~   ~~~~         ~~~~68  32  31  40  70  87  46                               i - -77
e--,pi,o                          260      5 72     842     688      982    1.047    1,269    3,      10 4      6 5     5i        82 7
1-vet-tr                          141      140      223     269      305      321     361     1  1     8  7    9 4      3 9       25 
9lrr-lcSaup                  73      108      2 26    229      234      2 33    314     78      13 9      3 .               2
N v,oo ol  0o~~~~~~~~~~~ingS ~~~60  95     _20      224     2 25     224      283    5        7 17     2 3       7       26 
97 ,1Ore     rcsI5 o-Ilseno     1.002   1. 441,  3.537    4.395   4.777    5.485    9.584    7 1     27 A     16 3     IA 9
_SF4TOR 3)'rTPU3                  -        Shr.io GDP ot tO-t.bt 1966 Pri-e io., F- t    -        A-erag Aln-al rotwh_Nate _
Alg-.tul-r                         22.1     17.7     193      18.3    18 5     170     1523   1.0     120       9 7      17
I deot ry                         72  8    24.7     2061    36  3    26  4,   27  5   31  6  8  0     774     t0  3    IA  0
.cr.                           55  1    59.0     74f     55  4    55  1    55  5   52  9  6  7     6        ,  .    5 
"Iso . il ..6                              17     104      Al        74      A       227   -          3  7       2    29 
(Oth-ror  Itr   p-oducts          32      40       44       73               1        1    - 3 "I1 iA                   5
P-trloo                                   4       31       3 17     '94     3 36     561             91t0      7 
Ao,,k  eI,o.p3,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,-  -- ~~~~107                    . ' 70  7.        4.              -I     7
g-ofo or d600               -1      63      282      30'.      32     40,    1 00     IA6       14 6     IA . 
Ioto1 cood.                      121     189      911     829       798g   867     7.061    9 I      19 5     3      2
3 osccse,                ~~~     ~~~     ~~~~    ~~~~~~19  65  29 99  132  359  4-0  37 0    28 C     V1        I
Oiler ors                ~~~     ~~~     ~~~~     ~~~~~~49  63  153  2'  27i5  402  8 7      19 41   IS3      ,
for  -odo  Voo 47              189     317     I 254   1.329     1.3 50  1I576   2  953   1',7     73 A     17      17
Coodsioff,                        14      NA      306     INO       193     2 7      99     I         0        0
Ceergo             II      13      130      106   ~  ~~~~~~~       ~  ~~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ lD   7In 097  -  0
31  1831     -.1(      143     7I    I204,     7        0o7    1I.
C.,,,, ro I 10000      .     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2 56  411-  45   902  94, .-           5     34      1-
Oct,,01 Rod'                     4              1.120    1.371    7571      -.9     9 977   5 3      370     16 A     I
0t1o- F's                        oA       6       122     IS5.      110     M9      5 70    95       3 4     3D05    2
'etil ooods -~d 77031FiT                          242    1.929    77OIl     ) 37   T 59     60        30      is I   I.
PRICLS                                                                  00 .                       ro2  10001  ,toAnna t_l-t  I .31
E.1p-.r  p-I.  -i d-'             07 5    106  7  23  1    22'      -''I2            295  2 4        is18 5    I      0I
Imporo prtcl- .01cC     '~~~~~~~~~~00 A  105  177 5  192 0  215 2   24 2    29116            it 110   7 7     7 
ferns ofII trd..,,.              On      100 3    137 0    110 2~   107F3  IDA 2     01 5   08 07            .6 0    .
,DP  defl,.-o,                   o9 3    1.1  9   156  9  16532     190  6  2A      249  5  3 9       7  7      A 
A-1   -hc -N  rtA  .77 pr-.    0  521  A  4321  D  436  0 AUG     27  5   11 229  A 429    i 7 2     N       1
Ic PFor...  ofa 067   nttf-  PrK~,-  -~, DET'AIG 116 GOV1'T *                      11tI
1220  19.2.5  J9.~~~19.6  SEC71O8 754 V7197S4.,;EN.2
Cerrollt 600,1o0..        ~~~~~   ~~~~  ~~~13 6  218  24.6  22 4  Noto - i-.i.rsIN
C--ron Rordtur                     Il      179       19 6    1 66        Aor,c I o                                1             1 
7thet C-ot S-ocoor ...no            0 9   -0 5       D.3     0 4in f-antrocoe                                    IN S           n 
Cootr-1 Coot IneT-o-otii.           57      N         6 7    40           0                                      74,            1
Tot-I  C00  11ooc ol 711                      I 7      0     101 17.                                                            1~ 
DETAIL 0N (.URRE,47 EAPENDIT72RE       10, P-... t of Iota 1             PiblIc etr2036.~ 
,CENTRAL 4.31 T5                   t965    1970      1975   1976         0 ther Eln-neg                          15 3           7
____           Somooti~~~~~D.ec N......ngN (etl         1 a           -3 
F.ducot,on                29~~~   ~~~~  ~   ~~~~~~~~~ 7  '2 1  72 3 26 3  Foreign, Ilorro-g -e,         _ 92 N 
1lt1._ Soc1, St rc-                IS 5    20 S        _..  I6F3--i001 Pisor cing
7grc ........                       5 0     3 A       5 4    7  2
F6-c   ...oo  .. voet             7 7    8 2        6 8    7 6         LA80R FORCE (th...)
Adninbutrot ion 4 Detonce ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  ~~jj ~ 51 8  4271972                                                   117 5
otlC.re,  -'cditr              100 0   100.0     U30 0   '80 0        Agric.l,b4/~                              .73           7
I,,d-stry                                255            72,
Ser-Ice                                  332            i,6
.7Int.d                                                                 Lb cenfos o ubicorcrrie
--7- O           NU     E.,-i,i-



ANNEX I
a.ge 4f 4 pages
rUINISIA - BALAN1CE OF PAY.NGTS ANDl EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Acr-tns  in -lto-   of US dol1lars
Aveag   Aenuo
Actual         So~~~E,t   Pen   td-~          -roth Rate
1970  1971  1972  19175  1974  1975  197   17    190lqei       t972-1981
S  UAIIGARY jAI_ANCL0OF PA',M]NTI
'o,,r-- (i-1 NFS)                            916   408   567  7114  1254  132, 134-9 157,, 2516   0907,     17 
Iapr'r∂- (reel  XI'S) ~~~~~~~~~~~3P    442   597   7ß2   1042  1.2'  1690  2035  2900  ',6 29     24
tcsoCtC0 Ralavoc                -65   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-'4  -26  -69  12  -197  -f41  -459  -.4 -7,I'  PI,
Ittoret Paoo.-oto             ~~~~  ~~~~~~-(B0  -17  -11)  -13  2 -6  -ii  -11  -103, -17    TX
ci eI,~~rtr  Inter, or en Per) ic Loacs  1-17) (-24) (-22)  -271 (-31) (-74) 1-'9) (-71-16r - (-1 96<  s
ev,,∂I 01-seIr-9                               -10    -    .0,91  -3   -X;_Fl  -14  -6    to,B -1161    -'
W--r,Ro,trrc                                  29    44    6o    90    ie-  144    ∂4    140  171   I∂7l     L. 
'Ith-r .1Frc      crtr                        -9   -'9   -41   -92  -10'  -113  -∂22  -iS'  -14-' -19ff      1~1
C- r-rc T,...oc t  net                        10    17     6     4     1                 P      2     2    -241,
((aoe. I cC,rro      c "-97                        4     -42   -9. ,-l -21(     -_'$5  -314  -595  -<0      29
P-,,-   Itro    Io,srrO∂                            24    31   417    49    76     7    110  I11-6  161     Po
<1frf~,I ,1 .,Pil Tra I Ct.                         r      7    4;    0     17    45    4%~ 40     ~7         0
P   7l~   1  T lure-
ri-Cr1,  001'                    Op~~~~    ~~~~~~~~~~~ 05c  ∂41  107  177  2 t2  375  379  ( 9.3  717  21
37    99    'C)   94    1 F,  212   270  .,20 ~4'!   ',404
Nr   "00.      r                   -(S,  21~  -70    -75   -71    4"-C-Oi5l7-~P
I .ra<r .1,orotc               ~~~~~~~~~~~~IS  114  197  790 7"  944  044  509q  702  717    71
-  7     9     5"    6< 4        C .  EXTEENAL DEf01i X∂o _h0 I             Ic PerdOroa
11                              lIt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  lB  IX  7  -W-tald Nook                       -P 6
tI1,,- 'U0irrl -rrI                         -     -     I     -     12    11           IDA                      4'.               . 
roocat'                      lOX~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  75  91.  (79  6æ  254     C---,reeto              596.0
ttti'rtII Cr.                     9~~~~~~          ~~~   ~   ~~       ~     ~~ X  19  11 P2 -  Supplier  101 1I(
F 111500141 ∂tsclt..t,on,       ~~~   ~~    ~~~21  _'  _09  _l  12  20       Fod-                        3             B12
Sra1! [.rlrl, S  IT lar,19                         14    188    98   13    32
13-9  16,1  188 19P  I 9 3 522    P,,bi-o Sebr ocs3                          1).9
Total Publi  It n IT Scot  99;6.0          I '0, 0
Fr  SCSI- 557 lOB ~S 040 117I0r
1WI Dehz '~,rrr'  (l-b--dci              924   604   6~90   27    g 96  1176
a  Irrhlt I SaltI               (0    XX    22     57    1     71.
htaorltealreo                  45    4?~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  70  09 Q 95  70
I.4  P.Il to    1-t IerItrroro            6;    66    So     6    90   104
frill it Do,lt 1r  ,                         9 5  16 8  16 3, 1X2    -72   7P,
TOte (I,t,t, l-ed     lao-2                       191   217   170   101I11
.caeSTl-wv a) Pa1lr ,SDO,
rI asNa)r--rCiu It) 415                     9 11.0 7,    40     8    3
I1R901,I,t - rItP-oto--d                      (9    P",   40    52    70    09
(SROF     .,rilritrNolr.                       40   6%     77    9--   1    I(I
((IlRa,      I , Caili  NI-le  ote               2   3           9    I7 IL,5IIP
Tllt IIt'r rIIC  -nd J, jia--d                13    I(    p1    ?A    77    5
ID' as . t    ,11  teSt                         I         41 )   .    44    4
ID1A, I alf Prhlir tort Se--te                   I   OX    05    04    01.   7
[aba,t     rte    sd (c-    icar,-etoe,--4d        1 w  tr   ,pend Le <lonpol<I-      d1  It)
0  -acIde.g retor  a-den    tc



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN TUNISIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of August 31, 1976)
Loan or
Credit                                                                                      Amount (less cancellations)
Number     Year     Borrower                               Purpose                          Bank     IDA     Undis.
Fourteen loans and credits fully disbursed                                                  60.9     38.4
581        1969     SONEDE                                 Water Supply                     15.0              1.3
209        1970     Republic of Tunisia                    Water Supply                              10.5     1.2
238        1971     Republic of Tunisia                    Population                                 4.8     2.0
746        1971     Republic of Tunisia                    Highways                         24.0             4.4
779        1971     Banque Nationale de Tunisie            Agricultural Credit               5.0             0.6
270        1971     Republic of Tunisia                    Fisheries                                  2.0    0.8
798        1972     Societe Nationale d'Investissement     Development Finance Co.          10.0             1.0
815        1972     STEG                                   Power                            12.0             0.5
858        1972     Republic of Tunisia                    Tourism Infrastructure           14.0            14.0
329        1972     Republic of Tunisia                    Tourism Infrastructure                    10.0    6.1
881        1973     Societe Nationale d'Investissement     Development Finance Co.          14.0              1.1
937        1973     Republic of Tunisia                    Urban Planning & Public          11.0             7.2
Tranapt.
989        1974     SONEDE                                 Water Supply                     23.0            17.3
1029        1974     Republic of Tunisia                    Hotel Training                    5.6             5.6
1042        1974     Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA               Phosphate Development            23.3             22.9
1068        1974     Republic of Tunisia                    Irrigation Rehabilitation        12.2            11.0
1088        1975     Republic of Tunisia                    Urban Sewerage                   28.0            27.1
1155        1975     Republic of Tunisia                    Education                         8.9             8.9
1188        1976    Republic of Tunisia                    Highways                          28.0            28.0
1189        1976     Banque de Developpement Economique     Development Finance Co.          20.0            19.7
de Tunisie
TOTAL:                                                                                     314.9     65.7  180.7
of which has been repaid                                                                  24.0      0.2
Total now outstanding                                                                      290.9     65.5
Amount gold                   3.7
of which has been repaid      2.8                                                          0.9
Total now held by Bank and IDA   a/                                                        290.0     65.5
Total undisbursed                                                                          170.6     10.1   180.7
a/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISIA (as of August 31, 1976)
Amount in US $ Million
Year       Obligor                                         Type of Business                 Loan     Equity  Total
1962       NPK Engrais                                     Fertilizers                      2.0      1.5     3.5
1966       Societe Nationale d'Investissement              Development Finance Co.                   0.6     0.6
(SNI) now (BDET)
1969       COFITOUR (Tourism)                              Development Finance Co.          8.0      2.2    10.2
1970       Societe Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                             Development Finance Co.                   0.6     0.6
1973       Societe Touristique & Hoteliere RYM SA.         Tourism                          1.6      0.3     1.9
1973       Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                  Tourism
1975       Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement de
Sousse-Nord                                  Tourism                          2.5      0.6      3.1
1974       Industries Chimiques du Fluor                   Chemicals                                 0.7     0.7
Total gross commitments                                                                    14.1      6.5    20.6
Less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales                                   3.2       1.5     4.7
Total commitments now held by IFC                                                         10.9       5.0    15.9
Total undisbursed                                                                         10.5       0.3    10.5
Less than $50,000.00



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION I/
Cr. 238: Population Project; US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date: (Original)
June 30, 1976; (Current) June 30, 1978.
Since January 1974, steady progress has been made both in the
National Family Planning program and in the management of the project. The
Government has welcomed and acted upon the recommendations of the IDA sector
mission, and there are strong indications that the program will now continue
to develop positively. However, delays in project execution resulted in cost
overruns of more than 300 percent over the amount originally projected.    In
an effort to fill the financing gap, and following a procedure necessitated
by the 1973 Agreement between the Bank Group and the Kingdom of Norway, IDA's
Executive Directors approved, on August 10, 1976, an increase in the IDA credit
from $4.8 million to $9.6 million, the additional amount representing the
participation of NORAD, Norway's Agency for International Development. The
Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1977.
Cr. 270: Fisheries Project; US$2 million credit of September 24, 1971; Date
of Effectiveness: May 24, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) December
31, 1976; (Current) July 31, 1978.
Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily after earlier
difficulties and delays experienced in design of an economic project vessel
suitable for operation by traditional fishermen; 87 boats have now been com-
pleted and 62 delivered. After a period of reduced demand for project boats,
due to early construction shortcomings as well as difficulty of fishermen to
adapt to the more sophisticated Perkins engine, effective follow-up action
has resulted in an increase in approved loan requests, which now total 163.
However, since there is always a considerable time-lag between sub-loan ap-
proval and boat delivery due to administrative procedures involved and since
this will be a rather high percentage of drop-outs even after sub-loan approval
for which new customers will have to be found, the new completion date esti-
mate is March 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
Ln. 581:   First Water Supply Project; US$15 million loan of January 16, 1968;
Date of Effectiveness: May 29, 1969; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1973; (Current) December 31, 1976.
Cr. 209:   Second Water Supply Project; US$10.5 million credit of June 30, 1970;
Date of Effectiveness: December 12, 1970; Closing Date: (Original)
December 31, 1973; (Current) December 31, 1976.
Ln. 989:   Third Water Supply Project; US$23 million loan of May 29, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1979.
Because of problems with locally manufactured asbestos-cement pipe
completion of the First Project has been delayed. Constraints resulting from
lack of capacity in the local construction industry required that the Closing
Date be further set back until the end of 1976. Final project costs are ex-
pected to be about 6 percent below appraisal estimates (but 7 percent higher
in dollar terms because of devaluation). The Second Project is also behind
schedule for the same reasons as well as because of initial delays in final
design, but all major supply works have been completed, and only minor works
unrelated to the provision of water remain to be completed. Final costs may
be about 5 percent higher than original estimates because of current infla-
tion rates, but 20-25 percent higher in dollar terms. Because of delays in
execution, the Closing Date has also been extended to the end of 1976. Bid-
ding is completed for all major components of the Third project. Construc-
tion is on schedule, and disbursements are higher than anticipated.
Ln. 746:   First Highways Project; US$24 million loan of June 9, 1971, Date of
Effectiveness: October 26, 1971; Closing Date: (Original) June 30,
1976; (Current) June 30, 1977.
Ln. 1188: Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26, 1976;
Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979.
Progress in reconstruction and rehabilitation of roads and bridges
is good under the first project. All works are now expected to be completed
by the end of 1976 or early 1977 (more than one year after the expected com-
pletion date in the loan documents). The delays are mostly caused by delayed
acquisition of right-of-way. The closing date has recently been extended by
one year to June 30, 1977. Cost overruns have required the elimination of
the Tunis-Turki section of the Tunis-Hammamet expressway and considerable
reductions of the withdrawal percentages. Construction of the expressway
section is now being financed by the Kuwait Fund.
After prequalification of contractors under the second project, the
Government invited bids for the improvement of one road; other improvement
works will be in accordance with the agreed timetable. Consultants have been
invited to submit proposals for a Pilot Rural Roads Projects. A separate in-
vitation to consultants was mailed to submit proposals for the updating of the
1978 Transport Survey.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 6
Ln. 779:  Agricultural Credit Project; US$5 million loan and US$3 million
Cr. 263:  credit, both of July 12, 1971; Date of Effectiveness:    January 25,
1972; Closing Date: (Original) July 31, 1975, (Current) December
31, 1976.
Project implementation was slow during 1973 and 1974, mainly due
to competing credit programs with softer terms than those of the Bank loan.
These difficulties were resolved in early 1975, when the Government finally
took steps to exclude use of these programs by potential Project subborrowers.
Since then Project implementation and disbursements have been satisfactory.
All Project funds are committed and the Loan/Credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by the end of 1976. Major agricultural credit policy issues, such
as the establishment of eligibility criteria for concessional credit, in-
terest rate levels and credit organization have been addressed in the con-
text of the proposed second agricultural credit project.
Ln. 815:  Power Project; US$12 million loan of April 20, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: August 4, 1972; Closing Date: (Original) July 31,
1975; (Current) December 31, 1976.
The project is nearing completion. Both gas turbines as well as
all transmission lines and substations are in operation. The cost of the
project is not expected to exceed the original estimate. A tariff increase
in 1975 raised STEG's overall electricity revenues by 12 percent, thereby
increasing the rate of return to 11.3 percent in that year (as compared with
8.5 percent in 1973 and 8.9 percent in 1974).
Ln. 858:  Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan and US$10 million
Cr. 329:  credit, both of September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness:     June 26,
1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
After considerable delays in 1975 caused by the redefinition of the
project, the project is now moving ahead expeditiously. The last contracts
for infrastructure works are being awarded and supervising the construction
of works has already started. Recently revised estimates set the project
cost at about D 31 million, or 16 percent more than the appraisal estimates.
Although most infrastructure works will be completed by the end of 1977, the
project is unlikely to be completed before July 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 6
Ln. 798:  Fourth Development Finance Company Project; US$10 million loan of
February 9, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 13, 1972; Closing
Date: (Original) March 31, 1976; (Current) April 30, 1977
Ln. 881: Fifth Development Finance Company Project; US$14 million loan of
February 20, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: May 24, 1973; Closing
Date: March 31, 1978.
Ln. 1189: Sixth Development Finance Company Project; US$20 million loan of
January 26, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 7, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980.
Loan 798-TUN is fully committed but disbursements are slightly be-
hind schedule; the undisbursed balance (about $1 million) is expected to be
disbursed by December 1976. Loan 811-TUN is also fully committed and the un-
disbursed balance (about $1.2 million) is expected to be drawn down by Decem-
ber 31, 1976, three months ahead of the original estimated schedule. Under
Loan 1189-TUN, $3.8 million have been committed as of September 30, 1976;
disbursements are expected to be slower than projected for 1976 and 1977 but
to substantially increase thereafter to conform to the estimated schedule.
Over the past 8 months, the effectiveness of BDET's managemen and the quality
of portfolio have vastly improved. Progress was also made in loan arrears
collection, validation of mortgages and overall working procedures. Pros-
pects for future development remain good.
Ln. 937:  Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project; US$11
Cr. 432:  million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October 5, 1973; Date
of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
Project execution is about a year behind schedule particularly as
regards construction of the bus depot by SNT and the execution of traffic im-
provements by the Municipality of Tunis. Action has now been taken by these
agencies to speed up execution on these two aspects and to minimize further
delays. Bidding for civil works is expected to take place in the coming
quarter. Most other major aspects of project execution have proceeded with
rlatively little delays. Procurement of major equipment by SNT has been com-
pleted and deliveries are being received on schedule and will be completed by
mid-1977. In view of this, the closing date for the loan which is now cur-
rently set for December 31, 1976, will have to be extended.
Ln. 1029: Hotel Training Project; US$5.6 million loan of July 17, 1974; Date
of Effectiveness: November 4, 1975; Closing Date: October 31,
1978.
Substantial progress has been made over the past six months. The
technical assistance team has completed classroom courses and will test these
in the upcoming school year. Final design for the first two schools and pre-
qualification procedures have been completed. It is expected that construc-
tion contracts for the two schools will be awarded in early 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 6
Ln. 1042: Gafsa Phosphate Project, US$23.3 million loan of October 1, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
19979.
Due to poor performance in the longwall methods trials, the Sehib
sub-project (underground mining development) is expected to be delayed by at
least one year. As a result of this slippage and higher inflation than fore-
seen, project cost estimates have risen appreciably; it is expected that they
can be financed partly by suppliers' credit and partly by internal cash gen-
eration. The modernization program has experienced some difficulties. The
severe drop in phosphate prices has seriously altered the financial perform-
ance of the company, possibly making difficult the financing of the expansion
program. The Government has proposed that the regional development study
be deleted from the project. Before agreeing to their request, the Bank has
asked for supplementary data on the development of the region.
Ln. 1068: Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in the M'edjerda subproject area has been very satisfactory,
particularly in light of delays incurred prior to effectiveness. Problems of
management and recruitment of consultants in the Nebhana subproject area have
now largely been overcome. The Government and the agricultural credit bank
(BNT) are now concluding an on-lending agreement setting the terms and condi-
tions of sub-loans under the credit component of the project.
Ln. 1088: First Urban Sewerage Project; US$28 million loan of February 18,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date: June
15, 1979.
Despite a six month delay in the early stages of project execution,
works are expected to be completed on schedule and disbursements should reach
forecast levels by end 1976. Consultants have been retained to study measures
to improve the implementation capacity of public works and building projects.
Total project cost may increase by 10 percent over estimates, all the increase
being in the local cost component.
Ln. 1155: Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: tMarch 1, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Since effectiveness, progress on this loan has been good, partic-
ularly from a pedagogical point of view, although improved planning is still
necessary on the physical aspects. Five vacancies in the Planning Unit are
expected soon to be filled. The amended Government/UtIESCO draft agreement
for implementation of the technical assistance component of the project will
soon be forwarded to the Bank for review and comment; so will the outlines of
the studies to be undertaken.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 3
TUNISIA
SECOND AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:            Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNT)
Guarantor:           Re-b14e--)of Tunisia
Amount:              US$12   illion equivalent, in various currencies
Terms:               Twelve years, including four years of grace, with interest
at 8.7 percent. Guarantor would bear the foreign ex-
change risk.
Relending Terms:     The Borrower would on-lend proceeds of the Loan through
medium- and long-term subloans, as follows: (i) $3.9
million to small farmers for on-farm investment at an
interest rate of 6 percent with a repayment period
of 5-8 years, including 2 years of grace; (ii) $3.7
million to commercial farmers for on-farm investment
for grain, dairy, vegetable and fruit production, at an
interest rate of 7 percent with a repayment period of 5-7
years including 1-3 years of grace; (iii) $1.9 million to
smallholder associations for date palm development at an
interest rate of 6 percent with a maximum repayment period
of 15-20 years, including I to 8 years of grace; (iv)
$2.5 million to agro-industrial firms, principally olive
oil mills, at an interest rate of 8 percent with a maximum
repayment period of 5 years including 2 years of grace.
Project
Description:         The loan would finance part of BNT's agricultural lending
program over 4-1/2 years by means of provision of medium-
and long-term credit for:    (i) purchase by small farmers
of equipment, seeds, dairy cattle and well and irrigation
improvements; (ii) purchase hy commercial farmers of
heavier agricultural equipment, pure breed dairy stock
and concomitant infrastructure, and construction and im-
provement in irrigation infrastructure; (iii) date palm
plantation development comprising groundwater development
and irrigation infrastructure, land levelling, planting
and maintenance of date palms to be undertaken by four
small farmers' associations; (iv) expansion of investment
in agro-industries, particularly olive oil mills.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 3
Estimated Cost:      The cost of the project is estimated at about $26.3
million equivalent, with the following main components.
US$ Million-----
Local Foreign Total
Small Farmers                     3.6     2.2      5.8
Commercial Farmers                1.9     3.0      4.9
Date Palm Plantations             2.9     0.9      3.8
Oil Mills                         1.5      2.2     3.7
Contingencies                     4.4     3.7      8.1
Total Project Cost               14.3     12.0    26.3
Physical contingencies are calculated according to in-
vestment at 5 percent. Price contingencies represent
37.4 percent of base cost plus physical contingencies
and include:
1980 and
1976   1977-79    thereafter
(annually)
Equipment                        9%      8%         7%
Civil Works                     13%o     12%        10%
Financing Plan:                                       -----US$ Million-----
Local          Foreign
IBRD: 100% of foreign
exchange costs                    -             12.0
BNT:  21% of local costs           3.0
Government: 39% of local
costs                            5.6
Subborrowers: 40% of local
costs                            5.7           _
Total                             14.3            12.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                --------US$ Million---------
FY77  FY78   FY79  FY80  FY81
Annual                   3.9    4.5   3.1   0.4    0.2
Cumulative               3.9    8.3  11.4  11.8   12.0
Procurement:         Local competitive bidding open to foreign contractors
would be carried out for drilling of 4 or 5 deep wells,
involving a cost of about USS0.8 million; grouping of
the contracts wotild be required where feasible.   Pro-
curenent through existing LocaL channeLs would be car-
ried out [or:   (i) purchase by farmers of agricultural



ANNEX III
Page 3 of
equipment, and by olive oil mills of machinery and
equipment, the latter on the basis of best offer out
of not less than three; (ii) purchase of imported
dairy heifers if alL those required are not readily
available in Tunisia; (iii) purchase and installa-
tion   -about US$200,000 of pumping stations.
Economic Rate of
Return:              34
A1db-     I
Appraisal                    15/. 1133-TUN4, dated October 22, 1976






IBRD 11976
M E D   / T E R R A N    L A N            S L_
TUNISIA                   4re
SECOND AGRICULTURAL )_
CREDIT PROJECT                    W..u B   F
=~~~~~~~~~~ _           <,JTebSLi >._- 'Kb
~j-. --          t.Y&                                  A T~T!  BR tl d  CAP BON
- ~         relou  < reo         / so       4 ob u9
Q SBs  E R I NT agencieU  /
folrA   ~~~NABCLCM                        A
Jlt           &~~~~~~~~.  Intrntina aipots            --1 f, 
^ ~~~i erser'~tf 
|~~~~~~~~~            ___ G___neat bounarie /
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nentoa boundaries?~  s-<~f2
*  29 43  6,0  80r'Wk
_ \   ~   ~~    ~     ~~~ 10 f?   I L  ;: A rr E S;\ %:  io
_ __-et ,  I     JAUA
}                 /S     0  +  n X~~~N
L r   \          O   BNT  agencles    /      {      \~~~~~~~~~~~.
= < _ 3  ~|Ji   .   COEMO  nter   -3          M  D  E N  I  E 
| Railwars \ lTotoRo~~~~~~uin 
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  E   Rg ILakes 'Q
Sd                         El                M  __  I Aovroaebudr
S I ; _ _   -   }   v -   -   I n t~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~er al o n l b u d r e
Xi_                                                         ,,
fj ~    ~~~~~  KIO ETR   IO     e d           ,_' ZID
w :~~~~~~~~~             ~~~~   Fl AIE  X/       KERKNN
l svas;e*ldmarra | \ / s J~~ISANUAYS97



