CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1340 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Second Agricultural Credit Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
Dated December IT, 1976


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1976, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE (hereinafter called the Borrower).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as herewith provided;
(B) by the Development Credit Agreement dated July 12,
1971, between the Republic of Tunisia (hereinafter called the
Guarantor) and the International Development Association (here-
inafter called the Association), the Association made a credit
to the Guarantor to assist the Guarantor in the financing of a
first agricultural credit project (hereinafter called the First
Project), in an amount in various currencies equivalent to three
million dollars ($3,000,000), upon the terms and conditions set
forth in the said Development Credit Agreement;
(C) by the Loan Agreement dated July 12, 1971 between the
Bank and the Borrower, the Bank made a loan to the Borrower to
assist in the financing of the First Project in an amount in var-
ious currencies equivalent to five million dollars ($5,000,000),
upon the terms and conditions set forth in the said Loan Agree-
ment;
(D) by the Guarantee Agreement (Second Agricultural Credit
Project) of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank,
the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the Loan and to undertake
certain obligations with respect to the Project.


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia, of the
foregoing to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿*                           -3-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein (said
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of
the Bank being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following ad-
ditional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Tunisian Dinars" and the letter "D" mean dinars in
the currency of the Guarantor;
(b) "BNT Statutes" means the statutes of the Borrower as
the same may be amended from time to time;
(c) "Statement of Policy" means the statement on lending,
investment and financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors
of the Borrower on March 8, 1971;
(d) "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of
the issued voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned
or effectively controlled by the Borrower or by any one or more


﻿4-
subsidiaries of the Borrower or by the Borrower and one or more
of its subsidiaries;
(e) "SONAMO" means Soci$t Nationale de Motoculture, "6ta-
bliasement pblic a caract*re commercial et industriel" established
and operating under the laws of the Guarantor;
(f) "SCMV" means Soci4t6 Civile de Mise en Valeur, a farmer
association investing mainly in date palm plantations;
(g) "service coperative" means a cooperative providing trac-
tor and harvesting services to small and medium farmers;
(h) "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by
the Borrower to a sub-borrower in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and to be partially financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan;
(i) "sub-borrower" means SONAMO, a SCMV, a service coopera-
tive, an agro-industrial enterprise or an individual farmer who
proposes to enter or enters into arrangements with the Borrower
for purposes of obtaining a sub-loan;
(j) "investment project" means a project to be carried out
by a sub-borrower and to be financed in part by means of a sub-
loan; and
(k) "FOSDA" means Fonds Spgcial de DLveloppement Agricole,
a fund established by the Guarantor under Law No. 63-17 dated
May 27, 1963 for agricultural lending by the Borrower.


﻿*                          -5-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve
million dollars ($12,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expendi-
tures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Proj-
ect described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan.                     .
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.T0%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.


﻿-6-
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on Mar-i 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
agricultural, banking and financial practices.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree the
Borrower shall:
(a) make sub-loans in accordance with the policies and pro-
cedures set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b) employ, not later than six months after the date of
this Agreement or such other date as the Bank shall agree, a quali-
fied and experienced engineer specialized in agro-industries, and
maintain not less than five qualified and experienced agricultural
engineers and such other professional staff and supporting ser-
vices as shall be required for the carrying out of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) make any sub-loan on terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract with the sub-borrower or by other
appropriate legal means, rights adequate to protect the interests
of the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower, including in the case


﻿-8-
of any such sub-loan, the right of the Borrower to: (i) require
the sub-borrower to carry out and operate the investment project
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound
technical, financial and managerial standards and to establish
and maintain adequate records; (ii) require that (A) contracts
for the drilling of wells be procured on the basis of competitive
bidding locally advertised, (B) all other goods and services to
be financed out of the proceeds of the sub-loans be purchased
through regular commercial channels, at a reasonable price (in the
case of equipment for oil mills and pump stations price quCtations
shall be obtained from at least three sources of supply), account
being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery
and efficiency and reliability of the goods and availability of
maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, in the case
of services, of their quality and competence of the parties render-
ing them and (C) goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the sub-loans be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
investment project; (iii) inspect, by itself or jointly with re-
presentatives of the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such
goods and the sites, works, plants and construction included in
the investment project, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents; (iv) require that the sub-borrowers shall
take out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks ard in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound business practice; (v) obtain all such information as
the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall reasonably request
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations
and financial condition of the sub-borrower; and (vi) suspend or
terminate the right of the sub-borrower to the use of the proceeds
of the sub-loan upon failure to perform its obligations under its
contract with the Borrower; and


﻿)                                    -9-9
(b) exercise its rights in relation to each investment
project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the
Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower; and (ii) achieve the pur-
poses of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after its execution, two conformed copies of each contract for
well drilling to be financed out of the proceeds of a sub-loan.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) prepare, not later than nine months after the date of
this Agreement or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower
shall agree, a proposal for an investment monitoring sy,tem to
monitor, on a sample basis, the benefits derived from sub-loans by
sub-borrowers;
(b) furnish to the Bank, promptly upon its preparation,
such proposal and afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to
comment thereon; and
(c) establish, not later than twelve months after the date
of this Agreement or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower
shall agree, such system and operate it thereafter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that adequate short-
term financing is available to sub-borrowers as required for the
carrying out of their investment projects.


﻿-10-
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall use the amounts made avail-
able to the Borrower by the Guarantor as provided in Section 3.07
(a) of the Guarantee Agreement to make grants to sub-borrowers
which are small and medium farmers in such amounts as shall re-
present for each category of investment project the percentage of
its estimated total cost specified in paragraph C of Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
I


﻿*                           -11 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall at all times manage its
affairs, maintain its financial position, plan its future expan-
sion and carry out its operations, all under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and staff and in accordance
with the BNT Statutes and the Statement of Policy.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary
to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and
franchises which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its
business.
0I


﻿- 12                                    0
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. The Borrower shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently ap-
plied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) fur-
nish to the Bank and to aJ.l members of its Board of Directors as
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
,he end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank
such other information concerning the accounts and financial state-
ments of the Borrower and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
time .to time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if the Borrower shall create any lien on any
of its assets as security for any debt, such lien will equally


﻿*                           -13-
and ratably secure the payment of the principal of, and interest
and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation of any such
lien express provision will be made to that effect, at no cost to
the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be created on any
assets of the Borrower as security for any debt, the Borrower
shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent lien satis-
factory to the Bank to secure the payment of the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided, however, that
the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to: (A)
any lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof,
solely as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (B) any lien arising in the ordinary course of bank-
ing transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one
year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
Section 5.04. The Borrower shall not make any repayment in
advance of maturity in respect of any outstanding debt of the Bor-
rover (other than the Loan) which, in the judgment of the Bank,
would materially affect the Borrower's ability to meet its fi-
nancial obligations.
Section 5.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall be necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Tunisian Dinars) used in its operations.
Section 5.06. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions under agreements under which funds have been lent or other-
vise put at the disposal of the Borrower by the Guarantor or its
agencies or others for relending, investment or management. The


﻿-14-
Borrower shall promptly inform the Bank of any action which would
have the effect of assigning, or of amending, abrogating or
waiving any material provision of, any such agreement.
Section 5.07. The Borrower shall exercise its rights under
subscriptions and agreements to subscribe to its capital shares
so as to ensure receipt of the capital funds available to it
promptly as needed for its operations.
Section 5.08. (a) The Borrower shall in respect of each sub-
loan, maintain a separate set of accounts to reflect, in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices: (i)
the nature of the funds made available to the Borrower by the Guar-
antor for the purposes of enabling the Borrower to make sub-loans;
(ii) the amount of disbursements under sub-loans; (iii) the amounts
of principal, interest and other charges due in respect of sub-
loans; and (iv) the amounts of principal interest and other charges
overdue and payable to the Borrower for two years on account of
sub-loans.
(b) The Borrower shall every year (i) notify the Guarantor
of the amount of principal interest and other charges overdue and
payable to the Borrower for two years on account of sub-loans, (ii)
charge the Guarantor for such amounts as provided in paragraph (c)
of Section 3.06 of the Guarantee Agreement.


﻿-15-
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Bank
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, tte following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) Any part of the principal amount of any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall,
in accordance with its terms, have become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided in the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
(b) The BNT Statutes shall have been amended or repealed so
as to affect materially and adversely the operations or financial
condition of the Borrower.
(c) A change, which would materially and adversely affect
the objectives, financial condition or operations of the Borrower,
shall have been made in the Statement of Policy without the Bank's
consent.
(d) A subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or taken over by the Borrower, if such creation, ac-
quisition or taking over would adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or the Borrower's operations or financial
situation or the carrying out of the Project.


﻿-16                                      0
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the folloving additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (d) of Section 6.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of
sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of Sec-
tion 6.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿*                                    - 17-
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement with-
in the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Bank has been furnished with evidence satisfactory
to the Bank that the revised terms and conditions of FOSDA, as re-
flected in paragraphs B.1 and 2 and C of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment have been substantially adopted and are in effect for all
loans made by the Borrower out of the proceeds of FOSDA; and
(b) the Borrower has furnished to the Bank (i) a report of
the audit of its accounts and financial statements for fiscal
year 1975 of such scope and in such detail as requested by the
Bank, and (ii) certified copies of its audited financial statements
for such year.
Section 7.02. The date March 16, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 18 -                 11-10-T6
ARTICLE VIII
Addresses
Section 8.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D. C.
For the Borrower:
Banque Nationale de Tunisie
19 Avenue de Paris
Tunis, Tunisia
Cable address:               Telex: 366
BANKAGRIC
Tunis
......


﻿-19-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Munir Benjenk
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
BANQUE NATIONALE DE TUNISIE
By Is/ Ali Hedda
Authorized Representative


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Sub-loans under             3,900,000    )
Part A of the                           )
Project                                 )
(2) Sub-loans under             3,700,000    )
Part B of the                           )    75% of amounts
Project                                 )    disbursed by
the Borrover
(3) Sub-loans under             1,900,000    )   under such sub-
Part C of the                           )    loans
Project                                 )
(4) Sub-loans under             2,500,000    )
Part D of the                           )
Project                                 )
-       TOTAL       12,000,000


﻿-21-
2.   The disbursement percentage has been calculated in compliance
with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases or
increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Bank.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
(b) from Category (1) in respect of payments made by the
Borrower to finance:
(i) any sub-loan to SONAMO unless such sub-loan shall
have been approved by the Bank, and the amount to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan in res-
pect of such sub-loan does not exceed $900,000
equivalent when added to any other amounts financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan in respect of sub-
loans to SONAND; and


﻿-22-                                   I*
(ii) any sub-loan to a service cooperative of more than
30,000D unless such sub-loan shall have been approved
by the Bank, and the amount to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan in respect of such sub-
loan does not exceed $600,000 equivalent when added
to any other amounts financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan in respect of sub-loans to service
cooperatives;
(c) from Category (2) in respect of payments made by the
Borrower to finance any sub-loan of more than 50,OOOD, unless such
sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank; and
(d) from Categories (3) and (4) in respect of payments made
by the Borrower to finance any sub-loan of more than 100,OOOD, un-
less such sub-loan shall have been approved by the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set fotth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category,
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such
Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall,
proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to another Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall


﻿*                          - 23--
have been made; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall
otherwise agree, no amount allocated to Category (1) or Category
(3) shall be reallocated to Category (2) or Category (4).
5.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of a sub-
loan is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to
in Section 3.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement, no sub-loan disburse-
ment for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan.


﻿- 24 -                                   0
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project, which is part of the Borrower's agricultural
lending program, consists of the following Parts:
A.   Medium- and long-term sub-loans to small and medium farmers
for general farm development and to SONAMO and service coop-
eratives for agricultural machinery.
B.   Medium- and long-term sub-loans to commercial farmers for
general farm development and, especially for grEin, dairy,
fruit and vegetable production.
C.   Medium- and long-term sub-loans to SCMVs for the development
of collectively-owned date-palm plantations.
D.   Medium- and long-term sub-loans to agro-industrial enterprises
for food processing, packing and storage.


﻿-25 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 1981
through September 15, 1988                      750,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿-26-
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than two years
before maturity                           1.45%
More than two years but
not more than four
years before maturity                      2.90%
More than four years but
not more than eight
years before maturity                      5.80%
More than eight years but
not more than ten years
before maturity                            7.25%
More than ten years
before maturity                            8.70%


﻿-27T -
SCHEDULE 4
Lending Policies and Procedures
A.   General
1.   The Borrower's technical staff shall:
(i) assist applicants in preparing detailed farm plans;
(ii) appraise all sub-loan requests; and
(iii) supervise all sub-loans.
2.   In preparing, appraising and supervising sub-loans under
Parts A and C of the Project, the Borrower shall be assisted, as
and when needed, by field staff from the Guarantor's Ministry of
Agriculture.
B.   Eligibility for Sub-loans under Part A of the Project
1.   Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall be made to sub-
borrowers on the basis of, inter alia:
(a) farm size;
(b) nature of the investment; and
(c) crop pattern.


﻿-28-
2.   Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall not be made to
finance harvestors, tractors or appliances for such machinery ex-
cept for sub-loans to service cooperatives and SONAMO.
3.   Sub-loans under Part A of the Project shall only be made to
sub-borrowers whose income is mainly provided by their agricultural
activities.
4.   The aggregate amount of sub-loans under Part A of the Project
or of such sub-loans and any other loans the terms and conditions
of which are similar to those of sub-loans under Part A of the
Project, made to any one sub-borrower shall not exceed 5,OOOD.
C.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans under Parts A and C of
the Project
1.   Sub-loans under Parts A and C of the Project shall be subject
to the terms and conditions set forth below:


﻿-29 -
Own                 Term (grace)
Sub-loan   Grant     Contribution  Interest     Years
Not less Not more      Not less    Not less    Not more
Type of Investment
Project
1.   Irrigation
(a) New vells and
irrigation        70         10          20          6           7 (2)
(b) Irrigation
structure for
SCMVs              TO        20          10          6           7 (2)
(c) New deep wells      50        40          10          6          20 (2)
2.   Orchard and tree
crop establishment      60        20          20          6 (0)* 10-15 (5-8)
.      3.   Livestock, forage
production and
Pasture Improve-
ment
-    Seeds              50        30          20          6 (0)*      2 (1)
-    Grazing            50        30          20          6 (0)*      5 (1)
-    Cattle             65        15          20          6           5
-    Buildings and
equipment         65         15          20          6        5-15 (2)
-    Sheep              65        15          20          6           3
*    During grace period.


﻿-30-
Own                 Term (grace)
Sub-loan   Grant    Contribution   Interest     Years
Not less  Not more    Not less     Not less    Not more
4.   (a) Harvesters,
tractors, and
appliances for
such machinery
for SONAMO and
services coop-
eratives invoice 70          -           30          6        3-7 (2)
(b) Light agricul-
tural machinery
and equipment
for small and
medium farmers    70        10           20          6       3-10 (2)
5.   Processing and mar-
keting facilities
operated by SCMVs
and service coop-
eratives
-    Building          80         -          20           6         15 (2)
-    Equipment         80         -           20          6          5 (2)
2.   A grant shall not be given in the case of investment projects
consisting of the rehabilitation of existing investments which
have already been amortized.
D.   Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans under Parts B and D of
the Project
Interest on and repayment of sub-loans under Parts B and D
of the Project shall be as follows:


﻿-31-
Maximum
Interest    Grace     Repayment Period
(% per annum) Period      after Grace
Part B
Grain Farms and
Mixed Farming            7         1              7
Dairy Farms               7         3              5
Part D
Olive Oil Mills           8         2              5
Other Investments         8     (to be agreed on a case-by-
case basis)
E.   Risk
The Borrover shall bear the fll risk of default on all sub-
loans except sub-loans under Parts A and C of the Project. With
respect to such sub-loans the Borrower shall bear at least 10% of
the risk of default on any of such sub-loans made not later than
two years after the Effective Date and at least 25% of such risk
on any of such sub-loans made thereafter.
F. Security Arrangements
A certificat de possession shall be accepted as adequate
title for purposes of creating a lien on the land subject of such
certificat as security for the repayment of a sub-loan.
For purposes of this paragraph "certificat de possession"
means the certificate described in Law No. T-53 of the Guarantor
dated June 10, 1974.


