Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17510-BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.5 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR A
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
April 10, 1998
Energy Sector Unit
Bosnia and Herzegovina Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of March 31, 1998)
Currency Unit = Konvertible Marka (KM)
KM1 .00=DM1 .00=US$0.55
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
GJ            10 billion joules
kV            Kilovolt
kW            Kilowatt
MW            Megawatt = 1,000 kW
kWh           Kilowatt hours
GWh           Gigawatt hour= Imillion kWh
MVA           Megavolt amperes = 1,000 volt amperes
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BiH           Bosnia and Herzegovina
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
DFID          Department for International Development (UK)
DM            Deutsche Mark
EBRD          European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMP           Environmental Management Plan
EU            European Union
EPBiH         Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina
EPM           Elektroprivreda Mostar
EPRS          Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska
GDP           Gross Domestic Product
IC1B          Intemational Competitive Bidding
JUGEL         Yugoslav Electric Power Industry
NBF           Not Bank Financed
LIB           Limited International Bidding
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
IS           International Shopping
NL            The Netherlands
NS            National Shopping
OECD          Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development
OECF          Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
PIU           Project Implementation Unit
RS            Republika Srpska
RUT           Tuzla Coal Mines
RUSB          Central Bosnian Coal Mines
SDR           Special Drawing Rights
SOE           Statements of Expenditure
USAID         US Agency for International Development
Vice President       :Johannes F. Lmfn
Country Director     :Christiaan J. Poorttman
Sector Director      :Hossein Razavi
Sector Leader        :Henk Busz
Task Team Leader    :Richard Hamilton



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objectives ..................................................................2
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators ...............................................2
B. Strategic Context ..................................................................2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ..................................... ; .   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy .....................................2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices             .5
C. Project Description Summary                                        .6
1. Project components                                      .6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                .6
3. Benefits and target population                                .7
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                         .7
D. Project Rationale                                           .8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                 .8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies         .       9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the proposed project design .10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project .10
E. Summary Project Analysis                                        .11
1. Economic .11
2. Financial .12
3. Fiscal impact .12
4. Technical .13
5. Institutional .13
6. Social .14
7. Environmental assessment .14
8. Participatory approach                                   .15
F. Sustainability and Risks .15
1. Sustainability .15
2. Critical risks .17
3. Possible controversial aspects .18
G. Main Loan Conditions                                          .18
1. Effectiveness conditions .18



ii
2. Other .......................................................                                                                                  18
3. Readiness for implementation .......................................................                                                           19
4. Compliance with bank policies .......................................................                                                          19
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary .......................................................                                                           20
Annex 2. Project Description .......................................................                                                              21
Annex 3. Estimated Project Cost .......................................................                                                           27
Annex 4. Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary .......................................................                                                    31
Annex 5. Financial Summary .......................................................                                                                42
Annex  6. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements .......................................................                                        52
Table A          Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .............................................. 54
Table Al: Project Procurement Plan and Implementation Schedule ............................ 55
Table B.  Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review ............................. 58
Table C.   Allocation  of Loan Proceeds .......................................................                                   59
Annex  7. Project Processing Budget and  Schedule .......................................................                                         60
Annex 8. Documents in Project File .......................................................                                                        61
Annex  9.  Statement of Loans and Credits .......................................................                                                 62
Annex  10.Statement of IFC's Committed  and Disbursed Portfolio .                                                ............................................. 63
Annex 1 1.Country at a Glance .......................................................                                                             64
Map
IBRD 29266 Bosnia and Herzegovina: Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project



Bosnia and Herzegovina
Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Energy Sector Unit
Date: April 10, 1998                                 Sector Leader: Henk Busz
Country Director: Christiaan J. Poortman            Sector Director: Hossein Razavi
Project ID:BA-PE-45483   Sector: Power              Program Objective Category: Environmentally
Sustainable Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan        Program of Targeted Intervention: []   Yes [X ] No
Project Financing Data             []   Loan   [X]  Credit  []   Guarantee  [    Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 18.5 million/US$25 million equivalent
Proposed terms:                        []  Multicurrency      []  Single currency
Grace period (years):   10             []   Standard Variable  []  Fixed          []    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity:      35
Commitment fee:         0.50%
Service charge:         0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                                             Local              Foreign            Total
Local                                              32.9               0                  32.9
Cofinanciers                                       0                  111.9              111.9
IBRD                                               0                  0                  0
IDA                                                0                  25.0               25.0
Total                                              32.9               136.9              169.8
Borrower: Bosnia and Herzegovina
Guarantor:
Responsible agencies: EPBiH, EPM, EPRS
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):  1998      1999       2000
Annual                                  1.2        18.7       5.1
Cumulative                              1.2        19.9       25.0
For Guarantees:                                []   Partial credit   [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage:
Project sponsor:
Nature of underlying financing:
Terms       of
financing:
Principal amount (US$)
Final maturity
Amortization
profile
Financing available without guarantee?:            [    Yes              [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity:
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee:
Project implementation period: 2 years Expected effectiveness date: June 30, 1998 Expected closing date: June 30, 2000



Page 2
A: Project Development Objectives
1. Project development objectives and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
The primary objective is to restore electric power supply at least cost. The project would help to restore
the generation, transmission and distribution systems to meet at least part of the expected increase in
demand within Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH), reconnect many consumers still without power after the
war, and reduce power outages, variations in voltage level, and other quality of service defects. It would
help to minimize electricity supply costs by focusing on the most cost-effective investments in the power
sector and in the coal mines which supply the power sector, by rehabilitating only economically viable
power stations and coal mines, reducing losses in generation, transmission and distribution, and
improving power exchanges within BiH. Power and coal sector restructuring actions that would be
implemented under the project would also help to minimize electricity supply costs. The key
performance indicators are increases in electricity generation and sales within BiH, and reduction in
losses in transmission and distribution.
The secondary objective is to improve cost recovery. While the ultimate goal is to make the power
companies completely financially autonomous of the Government, this can be achieved only gradually as
consumer incomes recover from extremely low wartime levels. The key performance indicators are
revenue collection relative to amounts billed and to cash operating costs for Elektroprivreda Bosnia and
Herzegovina (EPBiH), Elektroprivreda Mostar (EPM) and Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS)
respectively, and gradual increases in tariff levels.
The project includes investments to reduce pollution at coal power stations. The main indicator is
reduction in dust emissions at the Gacko Thermal Power Station.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
GAS document number: 16866   Date of latest CAS discussion: August 28, 1997
The project would contribute to the CAS objective of eliminating key bottlenecks in the power sector
through investments in rehabilitation of power generation, transmission and distribution facilities. It
would also contribute to the CAS objective of full cost recovery in the power sector in the medium term.
The project would support coordination between the three Elektroprivredas and the Energy Ministries of
the two Entities and encourage economically beneficial electricity exchanges. The project components,
which were selected in accordance with their degree of urgency, are distributed throughout the country.
They also include transmission interconnections between the three Elektroprivredas. The project would
support institutional strengthening and power sector reform that could lead to eventual privatization of
segments of the power sector, as well as measures to initiate coal sector restructuring.
The project is the second stage of a three stage rehabilitation program for the power sector. A proposed
Third Power Project would accompany further implementation of electricity and coal sector restructuring
measures.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
The main sector issues and Government strategy for dealing with them are the following:
(i)    Reconstructing the power system. In 1990, BiH produced 12,900 Gigawatt hours
(GWh) of electricity from generating plants located on its territory.  Electricity
consumption was 11,822 GWh. The system comprised 13 hydropower plants with a
total capacity of 2,034 Megawatts (MW) and an average output of 6,922 GWh/year, and
12 thermal power plants with a total capacity of 1,957 Megawatts (MW) and an output



Page 3
of 9,252 GWh in 1990. The thermal power plants were brown coal and lignite fired,
with the fuel coming from mines within BiH. BiH was responsible for operating its own
system and meeting local demand. However, being part of the former Yugoslav
network, the 400 kilovolt (KV) power grid in BiH was controlled by the Yugoslav
Electric Power Industry's (JUGEL) dispatching center in Belgrade. Power exchanges
were also controlled by JUGEL.
At the beginning of 1996, over 56% of total generating capacity in the Federation was
reported to have been damaged. Part of the remaining capacity was out of operation due
to destroyed transmission lines or lack of coal. Most plants in the Federation and
Republika Srpska (RS) suffered from lack of maintenance during the war. About 60% of
the transmission network and control system in the Federation was seriously damaged,
including transmission facilities and interconnection lines to neighboring countries. The
transmission network and control system in RS was also heavily damaged, particularly
in those areas located close to confrontation lines. Many distribution networks were
badly damaged in both the Federation and RS as a result of fighting and lack of
maintenance.   Many  transformer stations, buildings, telecommunications and
maintenance facilities and equipment were also either seriously damaged or destroyed.
In 1997, total net electricity generation reached 71% of the 1990 level, compared to 60%
in 1996. Similar progress had been made in rehabilitating transmission and, to a lesser
extent, distribution. However, many facilities remain to be reconstructed, some of the
repairs are of a temporary nature, others are barely sufficient to restore facilities to
operation and do not provide for adequate reliability, and there is still a shortage of spare
parts.
The Federation and RS Governments place high priority on rehabilitating or
reconstructing the power systems as one of the primary means to relaunch economic
activity. The Bank has been providing assistance through the Emergency Recovery
Credit (TF-024030), the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project (2903-BOS)
and the Reconstruction Assistance Project (3028-BOS), but much more remains to be
done.
(ii)    Restoring coal production in the economically viable mines. In the Federation, coal
production dropped to 1.1 million tons in 1993, or 9% of the pre-war level of about 12
million tons per year. The Federal Government's strategy is to restore production so as
to provide fuel for the coal-fired power generating plants at Tuzla and Kakanj, which are
being rehabilitated/reconstructed. By 1996, production had recovered to 2.1 million
tons. It continued to rise in the first half of 1997, reaching an annual rate of 3.1 million
tons (26% of the pre-war level). The coal mines in the Federation are grouped into two
companies: the Tuzla Coal Mines (RUT) and the Central Bosnian Coal Mines (RUSB),
which presently supply 82% of their output to the Tuzla and Kakanj power plants, and
18% to small industries, municipalities and households. So far, little effort has been
made to concentrate production in a few large and economic mines. Since the war,
employment in the mines has increased from about 7,000 to 12,000 persons, reaching
about 50% of the pre-war level. In addition to providing employment, the mines
presently pay unemployment benefits to about 7,000 ex-workers, many of them returned
soldiers. The social pressure for employment has so far kept the coal industry from
restructuring. Despite rising output, productivity is very low by international standards.
Present production costs per ton are at or above the world market level. Production costs
continue to rise due to lack of replacement and rationalization investments, and rising
labor costs. Therefore, major restructuring of the Federation's coal sector is needed
urgently. The first step should be to continue the restoration and rationalization of the



Page 4
lowest-cost mines only. The second step should be to consolidate production in the
viable mines and close uneconomic capacity.
In RS, coal production dropped to 0.2 million tons in 1995, or 6% of the pre-war level of
3.5-4.0 million tons per year. Production has now increased to about 60% of the pre-war
level. The coal mines, one surface brown coal mine at Ugljevik and one surface lignite
mine at Gacko, are completely integrated with the Ugljevik and Gacko power plants,
respectively. The mines are modem and could produce coal efficiently after repair of the
main equipment and addition of key auxiliary equipment. While the Ugljevik mine is
well managed, operations and maintenance should be improved at Gacko. RS strategy is
to restore the output of the Ugljevik and Gacko mines to a level compatible with the
electricity generation of the respective power plants.
(iii)  Improving cost recovery. All three power enterprises were severely affected during the
war by revenue constraints arising from the inability of citizens as well as commercial
and industrial enterprises to pay for their electricity consumption. Given that repair of
war-damaged equipment had absolute priority, this made normal repair and maintenance
virtually impossible. Revenue collection during the war had dropped to as low as 25
percent of invoiced amounts, leading to severe cash deficits. Since the peace accord, the
revenue situation, both in terms of tariff levels as well as collection performance, has
improved significantly, albeit to varying extents in the case of the three enterprises. In
1997, EPM, EPBiH and EPRS are estimated to have been able to cover 100, 90 and 80
percent of their respective cash operating expenses. Further progress is required,
however, first to reach cash break-even levels, and, subsequently, to achieve full cost
recovery, including coverage of normal depreciation charges.  This will require
progressive increases in: (i) billing and collection results, including unequivocal support
from the concerned Governments for enforcement of collection in case of non-payment;
(ii) cost efficiency through adequate repair and maintenance, enabled by the improving
financial situation of the enterprises; and (iii) tariff levels.
(iv)   Improving electricity tariff levels and structures. In March 1998, average industrial
electricity tariff rates of US$0.07/kWh (kilowatt hour), US$0.07/kWh and US$0.04 kWh
for EPBiH, EPM and EPRS respectively compared favorably with those in OECD
Europe (US$0.06). By contrast, the household rates of US$0.05/kWh, US$0.05/kWh
and US$0.04/kWh were much lower than the OECD Europe average of US$0.13/kWh.
The low household rates reflect the temporarily low incomes within the country. The
strategy of the companies and Governments is to gradually raise household rates towards
the economic level in accordance with the financial requirements of the companies and
as ability of households to pay increases. Prior to the war, the tariff structures were
differentiated by season and time of day for most consumer categories, thereby
approximating economic cost differences. Some of these differences have been dropped
temporarily. For example, in 1997, EPRS continued to charge the higher winter rates
after the end of the 1996-97 winter. It is expected that the pre-war tariff structures will
be gradually re-introduced when conditions permit. A power tariff study being carried
out under European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) supervision will
calculate long-run marginal cost estimates, which will provide a basis for determining
new economic cost-based tariff differentials.
(v)   Increasing mutually beneficial power exchanges between EPBiH, EPM and EPRS.
Since the war, power exchanges between the different parts of BiH have been limited
because of the breakdown of many transmission lines and the creation of three separate
power enterprises. Re-establishment of unhindered power exchanges would: (i) permit



Page 5
surplus power in one part of the country to be used to alleviate shortages in another part
(caused, for example, by outages of large generating units or surges in power demand);
(ii) reduce transmission costs (e.g., by allowing load centers in western RS to be served
by relatively nearby power stations in the Federation rather than by the more distantly
located power stations in eastern RS); and (iii) reduce generating costs by permitting the
lowest cost generating units in the country to be used at each time of day and year. Until
now, the limited power exchanges which have occurred have been handled on an ad hoc
basis. Measures are needed to establish a formal coordination mechanism that would
provide for largely automatic power exchanges when they are needed, on a commercial
basis, and at least cost.
(vi)   Power sector restructuring. Prior to the war, BiH had a single vertically integrated
state-owned power company. There are currently three vertically integrated power
companies serving three separate groups of consumers (Bosniacs, Croats and Serbs).
The current arrangements lack the economies of scale and coordination that existed
before the war. They also lack the potential benefits that could be reaped from
competition (lower prices). The Federation is preparing a law that would provide for
restructuring and eventual privatization of Federation power enterprises. RS has a law
which confirms EPRS as the vertically integrated single electricity company within the
Entity, but it allows for eventual private involvement. The legal frameworks should be
strengthened to ensure their investor friendliness and provide for independent regulation.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Carrying out the project through credits to state-owned enterprises is necessary at this stage in order to
restore full electricity supply to thousands of households as soon as possible and enable the economy to
return quickly towards the pre-war level. Private lending or investments in the BiH power companies are
not possible for the time being because of perceived country risks and the fact that economic recovery is
still in the early stages. While priority will continue to be given to reconstruction of the power system
and rehabilitation of the associated coal mines to provide sufficient fuel for the rehabilitated thermal
power stations, the implementation emphasis is increasingly shifting to the financial and institutional
aspects of power sector rehabilitation. The project would address the cost recovery and tariff issues in
order to enhance the self-financing capability of the power companies and avoid the need for government
financial support.
The project includes both investments and institutional measures to improve power exchanges because of
the potential cost savings.
Sector restructuring and privatization would also bring important economic benefits and contribute to
improved coordination between Bosniacs, Croats and Serbs. The project would support first steps
towards sector restructuring and the establishment of an appropriate regulatory framework for sector
restructuring and privatization.
The project would address the issue of coal sector restructuring because of the economic and social
importance of determining early on just how much of this sector is economically viable, and then making
sure that only the economically viable mines are rehabilitated.  These actions are closely linked to an
evaluation of how much reconstruction should be carried out at the Tuzla and Kakanj coal power
stations, which accounted for 48% of total power generation in BIH in 1990. The project covers only a
small part of the potential total reconstruction requirements, and includes only components that have
obviously high priority and that do not require first completing the coal sector restructuring analysis.



Page 6
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
Component                                 Category     Cost Inel.    % of Total  IDA        % of IDA   Other
Contingencies            financing   financing   Donor
(US$M)                    (US$M) __I_Financing
1. Generation                            Physical            46.01        27.1       23.96        96       15.15
Rehabilitation of the hydropower stations of
Rama, Jajce 1, Capljina, Trebinje I and 2, and
Bocac; and the coal-fired power stations of Tuzia
(Second Phase), Kakanj (Second Phase), Gacko
and Ugljevik
2. Transmission                           Physical            44.30       26.1        0.54         2       36.69
Rehabilitation of transmission facilities in the
Federation, Republika Srpska, and between them
3. Distribution
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of distribution  Physical  47.02        27.7                             36.92
networks in the Federation and Republika Srpska
4. Associated Coal mines
Rehabilitation of coal mines associated with the  Physical    24.97        14.7                            21.30
coal power stations of Tuzla, Kakanj, Gacko and
Ugljevik
5. Technical Assistance
Transmission and institutional rehabilitation  Institutional  7.44         4.4        0.50         2        1.80
study                                     and project
Coal sector restructuring study           management
Engineering and project management support
Total                                                        169.74       100.0      25.00       100      111.86
The foreign cost financing plan for the proposed project is shown in Annex 3, Attachment 1. Of the total
foreign cost of US$137 million equivalent, IDA would provide US$25 million to be used to finance the
rehabilitation of the Rama, Jajce 1, Capljina, Trebinje I & 2, and Bocac hydro power plants, Tuzla and
Gacko thermal power plants, and project implementation support. The European Union (EU), US Agency
for International Development (USAID) and The Netherlands are financing the rehabilitation of distribution
networks. The UK Department for International Development (DFID), Japan and Canada Initiative
Program would finance the reinforcement of the existing transmission system. The EU would also finance
a part of the transmission lines and substations rehabilitation. The Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
(OECF) of Japan would finance the rehabilitation of Kakanj thermal power plant and Tuzla, Central Bosnia
(Kakanj), Gacko and Ugljevik coal mines. DFID would also finance part of the rehabilitation of thermal
power plant, associated coal mine, distribution networks, and technical assistance for a transmission study.
Canada would also finance a power expert group to assist in engineering and project implementation.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The reforms summarized in Section B3 would be concretely supported by:
(i)     establishment by July 30, 1998 of an Electricity Coordinating Center, with staff from the
Elektroprivredas and functions and powers satisfactory to the Association;
(ii)    agreement to take appropriate measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation
of a technically integrated power system of BiH;
(iii)    exchange of electric power on a commercial basis, by October 31, 1998, using prices
which cover the economic costs of the electricity traded and which, depending on the
cost estimates, may differ by time of day as well as season;



Page 7
(iv)   establishment of billing and collection systems resulting in revenue collection (as a
percentage of total cash operating expenses) in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000 of: 110%,
145% and 165% for EPBiH; 150%, 170% and 185% for EPM; and 110%, 125% and
140% for EPRS;
(v)    completion, by December 31, 1998, of an electricity tariff study, and implementation of
agreed actions thereafter;
(vi)   adjustments in the structures and levels of electricity tariffs, including provision for the
economic cost of fuel, as appropriate and required for the financial performance of
EPBiH, EPM and EPRS;
(vii)  cash payments by EPBiH to the coal mines of at least 50% of the price of coal
consumed, starting June 30, 1998;
(viii)  completion, by March 31, 1999, of a sector restructuring study for the Federation's coal
mining sector, and implementation of agreed actions thereafter;
(ix)   start of implementation, by October 31, 1998, in accordance with a timetable to be
agreed with the Association, of power sector restructuring and regulatory reform actions
acceptable to the Association. These reforms should be based, inter alia, on selected
recommendations of the Privatization Project Report, "Electric Power Sector
Restructuring and Privatization" (August 1997); and
(x)    submission, by October 31, 1998, of a draft Electricity Law, acceptable to IDA, to the
Federation Parliament; and submission to the RS Parliament of amendments to the RS
Electricity Law, acceptable to IDA. These reforms should be based, inter alia, on
acceptable recommendations of the Privatization Project.
3. Benefits and target population:
The benefits would consist of an increase in electricity generation, improved access to electricity supply
for large numbers of consumers, improvement in the quality of electricity supply (e.g., fewer outages and
less variation in voltage levels), and cost reductions achieved through reduced coal mine costs,
transrnission and distribution losses and increased power exchanges on a commercial basis between
EPBiH, EPM and EPRS. Institutional benefits would include: improved cost recovery and financial
performance of the three Elektroprivredas and the two Federation coal mine companies; improved
arrangements for power exchanges; first steps toward power sector restructuring; and first steps toward
coal mine restructuring. Environmental benefits would include lower dust emissions at the Gacko power
plant and reduced pollution at the Gacko coal yard. The target population would be household and non-
household consumers of electricity in the areas served by the three Elektroprivredas, including those in
small towns and rural areas who did not benefit from the previous rehabilitation of the power system.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The IDA credit would be lent to Bosnia and Herzegovina and onlent through the Federation Government
to EPBiH and EPM and through the Government of Republika Srpska to EPRS. Onlending would be at
the IDA service charge, for a 20-year term, with five years of grace.
Co-financing would be provided through parallel financing arrangements, with each donor responsible
for separate components. As a result, possible delays in implementation of one donor's components
would generally cause little or no delay in implementation of other donors' components.
Electric Power. The proposed project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999. Management
of project implementation would be carried out by EPBiH, EPM and EPRS, who would be responsible
for execution of their respective parts. Procurement and disbursement of funds would be handled in
accordance with the agreements reached between each donor and Bosnia and Herzegovina. All three



Page 8
Elektroprivredas have adequately qualified staff and expert support required for project management.
The Federation Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry has established a joint Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) for the Federation components of the project, and branch PIU units have been established in
EPBiH and EPM. EPRS has established its own PIU. All these units have acceptable functions and
staffing. The implementation of the sub-projects would be the responsibility of the local generation,
transmission and distribution entities. To ensure coordination, the three Elektroprivredas would hold
regular meetings to resolve particular project problems and advise their governments and donors on
major coordination and implementation issues, if any. The IDA credit would include US$0.5 million to
finance basic PIU office equipment and operating costs including salaries of PIU directors and overtime
for staff involved in project management. Financing of these costs would be gradually phased out during
the project period.
Coal Mining. The coal components are expected to be completed by June 30, 1999. Under the
ongoing Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project (2903-BOS), RUT and RUSB have been
successful in carrying out procurement and project implementation satisfactorily. Under the proposed
project, these companies would again be responsible for implementation of their respective components.
RUT and RUSB are supervised by the Federation Ministry of Energy, Mining and Industry, as are
EPBiH and EPM. The Ministry will also be responsible for restructuring the Federation's coal industry.
The PIU within EPRS will also be responsible for the execution of the Ugljevik and Gacko coal mine
components, since these mines are owned by EPRS.
Accounts, Auditing and Reporting. The financial management of EPBiH, EPM and EPRS is
adequate for project monitoring. In addition, an EBRD managed study is expected to recommend
measures to strengthen the companies' overall financial management systems in the medium termn.
Separate and auditable project accounts would be established by EPBiH, EPM and EPRS. It was agreed
that the World Bank will design an amendment to the Charts of Accounts of the three Elektroprivredas
that would provide for the preparation of a set of project financial reports corresponding to the
categories of expenditures and other relevant components of the Credit.
In the past, financial audits were carried out by government auditors in accordance with Bosnian
regulations. According to the Institute of Accounting and Audit, BiH is now applying International
Audit Standards. Under the project, the financial statements of the Beneficiaries of the IDA Credit and
the project accounts would be audited annually by qualified, independent, external auditors acceptable to
IDA and under terms of reference approved by IDA. The auditors for the 1998 statements would be
appointed prior to effectiveness of the IDA credit. Separate audit statements would be prepared for the
special accounts and for statements of expenditure (SOE). All audit reports would be made available to
IDA within six months after the end of the fiscal year. Project accounts would be maintained for one
year after they have been audited. The Beneficiaries would separately prepare and furnish to IDA
quarterly project implementation reports, summarizing the status of procurement and disbursement,
implementation progress for each component, as well as financial reports in a format acceptable to IDA.
Monitoring and Evaluation. Due to the complexity of the project, close supervision would be
required by IDA, especially during the first 12 months of implementation. Implementation progress
would be formally evaluated through a mid-term review approximately 12 months after effectiveness,
when project implementation should be in full swing. In addition, the Resident Mission in Sarajevo
would assist in closely supervising initial project implementation and would assist on matters requiring
advice and rapid decisions by IDA, such as procurement and disbursements.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The project covers rehabilitation of existing power facilities rather than construction of new ones. This



Page 9
was considered to be the fastest and least costly approach to meeting electricity demand. Because of
limited financial resources, the project cannot cover all the rehabilitation needs. Therefore priorities
were determined from among the rehabilitation options. First, it was agreed at Donors' Conferences and
by the Council of Ministers of BiH to share the project on a roughly two-thirds - one-third basis between
the Federation and RS. Second, efforts were made to ensure a balanced restoration of generation,
transmission and distribution in order to avoid bottlenecks or surpluses in one or more of these three
systems. Within each of the generation (including coal supply), transmission and distribution systems
the priorities were determined as follows. For hydropower stations, the critical requirement was to
ensure that the plants are able to operate. Needed expenditures to improve plant availability rates and
increase security of civil works were left for the future. Rehabilitation of the Tuzla and Kakanj coal
power stations would be limited mainly to the 32 MW units, which are needed for heat and industrial
steam supply as well as electricity supply.  The project economic analysis confirms the economic
justification of rehabilitating these units in comparison with constructing a new combined-cycle natural
gas-fired power station, the lowest-cost new source of supply. Rehabilitation of the larger units would be
carried out later on the basis of ongoing studies to evaluate the economic viability of these units and the
best timing of work to be done on them. Rehabilitation of coal mines would be limited to the lowest cost
mines and to ensuring just enough production to provide fuel for expected additional thermal power
generation over the next three years. Rehabilitation of transmission would be confined to the 110 kV and
220 kV systems, with a relatively small amount of work being done at this stage to reconstruct the 400
kV system, pending the establishment of improved coordination of power exchanges between the three
Elektroprivredas. Measures towards improving this coordination would be taken under this project. A
future third electric power reconstruction project, which would complete the reconstruction phase, would
focus on further transmission system rehabilitation, including construction of a coordinated dispatching
system, in cooperation with other major donors. Distribution system investments would be focused on:
(i) networks which have been seriously damaged and/or cut off from the transmission system; (ii) those
which have been temporarily repaired but operate unreliably; and (iii) those in areas receiving or
expected to receive large numbers of refugees.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing
and planned):
Sector issue                       Project                Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementatio   Development
n Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Repair war damages for specific    Emergency Recovery    S               S
sectors                            Project
Emergency reconstruction of power    Emergency Electric   S              S
facilities; cost recovery          Power Reconstruction
Project
Reconstruction in Republika Srpska    Reconstruction      NA             NA
Assistance Project/a
Other development azencies
Many agencies, including the EU,                          NA             NA
USAID and EBRD, are helping to
finance the above projects and parallel
power sector investments
IPIDO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
a/ Not yet effective (Board approval on 12/23/97).



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The project would build on the successful performance of the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction
Project. One lesson learned from this project is the importance of ensuring the timely availability of
cofinancing. Under the proposed project, nearly all of the co-financing has been identified, leaving a
financing gap of less than US$4 million. However, further actions are needed to make the cofinancing
arrangements effective as soon as possible and to ensure that the Elektroprivredas are kept fully
informed of the donors' activities on their respective project components. Under the proposed project,
each Elektroprivreda would sign a separate project implementation agreement with each of the donors.
These agreements would cover, inter alia: (a) the scope of the supply of goods and/or rehabilitation
works; (b) the procurement plan, including the procurement method and procurement procedures to be
followed; (c) the delivery schedule and/or construction plan; (d) estimated cost, schedule of
disbursements, and the method and procedure for disbursements; and (e) responsibility for project
implementation. IDA could exercise its remedies if these agreements are not effective by December 31,
1998. One reason for the success of the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project is a strong
and well-staffed PIU in EPBiH. For the proposed project, a Federation PIU has been established, with
branch units in EPBiH and EPM, and a separate PIU has been established in EPRS. All have adequate
staffing. Another lesson from previous involvement in BiH is that local labor and suppliers should be
used as much as possible, when consistent with economy and efficiency. Under the proposed project,
most of the installation and civil works would be carried out by qualified local firms with local
financing.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Counterpart personnel of EPBi]H, EPRS and EPM have been extensively involved in preparation of the
project, and have made frequent trips to meet Bank staff, occasionally at some risk to their personal
safety. All three Elektroprivredas have supplied requested information in accordance with the agreed
time schedules. There has also been full involvement in project preparation of the Energy Ministers of
the Federation and RS, including participating in joint meetings. The Energy Ministers as well as the
counterpart personnel of the Elektroprivredas have shown a great interest in the choice of project
components and the shares of the project for their respective areas, and these have been fully agreed
upon. The Council of Ministers has provided written agreement on the proposed allocation of IDA funds
and the proposed allocation of other donor funds. The Prime Minister of the Federation has taken an
active interest in the project, notably by proposing the establishment of a PIU at the Federation level as a
means to strengthen integration of the power sector within the Federation. Both the Federation and RS
Governments have indicated a desire to establish legal frameworks for the power sector based on
European Union models.  The three Elektroprivredas are committed to the establishment of a
coordinating mechanism for power exchanges and have been engaged in extensive discussions with each
other and with IDA and the project cofinanciers on the choice of mechanism. The Federation Ministry of
Energy, Mining and Industry has shown strong support for the coal sector restructuring component of the
project.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
(i) The Bank has taken the lead role among donors in establishing overall sector rehabilitation and
reconstruction investment priorities from the point of view of the whole country. It has been able to do
this because of its leadership in the two largest post-war electric power projects for the power sector, the
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project and the proposed project, and its involvement with all
three Elektroprivredas as well as because of its involvement in other energy sector projects in Bosnia and
Herzegovina; (ii) Bank involvement in the proposed project is serving as a catalyst for other donor co-
financing. OECF Japan, in particular, would contribute an amount slightly larger than the IDA credit.
As a result, although IDA would provide only US$25 million towards the total foreign cost of US$137
million, the financing gap was less than $4 million as of early March 1998; (iii) Because of its broad
sector involvement, the Bank is able to take the lead role among donors in encouraging institutional



Page 11
reform and strengthening; (iv) Bank involvement, both through the design of the project to include
investments by all three Elektroprivredas and the emphasis on improved power exchanges, is
significantly contributing to improved coordination between the three Elektroprivredas and the Energy
Ministries of the two Entities. The Bank's role in this regard is considered absolutely indispensable by
the other donors and will be increasingly important in the future, especially with regard to proper
utilization of the proposed 400 kV system; (v) Procurement in accordance with World Bank procurement
guidelines would help to minimize costs of equipment purchase and installation. Furthermore, the
requirement of strong PIUs within the three Elektroprivredas would help to expedite project
implementation.
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (See Annex 4):
[A7 Cost-Benefit Analysis: NPV= US$280 million; ERR= 26%
The project is part of the overall investment programs of EPBiH, EPM, EPRS, RUT and RUSB to
rehabilitate the power and coal sectors. It includes many components of varying sizes for many power
stations, transmission lines and distribution networks.  The benefits of many individual project
components could not be separated from the benefits of other project components and of simultaneous
investments not covered under the project. Therefore, the main cost-benefit analysis was made for the
whole investment program of which the project is a part. This program consists of all the actual power
and related coal investment expenditures made in 1996 and 1997 plus all projected investment
expenditures through 1999, but excluding investments not covered by the proposed project for which
financing has not already been committed. The without program case, against which to evaluate the
program benefits, was taken to be the continuation of the power supply situation which existed in 1996.
While, in the absence of the rehabilitation program, power supply would likely diminish over time, no
account was taken of this possibility because of the difficulty of predicting the rate of decline. One
consequence of this definition of the without program case is to provide conservative estimates of the
program benefits.
The benefits were taken as the incremental electricity sales made possible by the investment program
valued at the forecast weighted average financial electricity prices for the three Elektroprivredas.' The
demand forecasts of these companies were evaluated in order to ascertain whether demand within BIH
would be sufficient to absorb the capacity made available by the investments. The forecast growth rates
of sales from distribution by EPBiH, EPM and EPRS of 11.5% per year, 11.9% per year and 10.2% per
year, respectively, from 1997 to 2003 were considered to be reasonable in view of forecast economic
growth of 12.3% per year (Country Assistance Strategy, July 31, 1997). Direct sales from transmission
to large industries in the Federation are forecast to grow from 265 GWh in 1997 to 2,710 GWh in 2003,
equal to 86% of the 1990 level. Realization of this forecast will depend on a return of electricity
consumption by the aluminum and iron industries in the area served by EPM to the 1990 levels of 1,400
GWh and 600 GWh, respectively, or the emergence of new industries. While there is some uncertainty
surrounding these forecast demands, they are sufficiently in excess of the amount of forecast total
electricity supplies (including the increments resulting from the investment program analyzed) to provide
assurance that all the new capacity will be needed as soon as it can be made available, except for 1998,
when there could be a small surplus.2 This is shown in the following tabulation and in Table A4.2:
' This approach gives an estimate of willingness to pay. It assumes that prices will increase as projected and that the
incremental revenue collected would be as large as incremental sales multiplied by the sales prices. It is a
conservative estimate in that it does not include consumers surplus, which cannot be reliably estimated for BiH.
2These estimates assume average hydrology. In years of less than average hydrology, the deficits would be much
larger. Electric utilities throughout the world try to have sufficient capacity to cover demands even in dry years
(i.e., which would occur as infrequently as once every 10 - 20 years).



Page 12
Projected Electricity Consumption and SUDDly
(GWh)
-----Actual---  --------------------Projected---------------------------
1996  1997  1998   1999   2000   2001  2002  2003
Consumption         5,805  6,974  9,689  10,988 12,018 12,615 13,074 13,360
Production          7,340  8,765  9,810  10,116 10,502 10,507 11,000 10,448
Surplus(+)/Deficit(-)  1,535  1,791   121   -872  -1,516 -2,108  -2,074 -2,912
The costs include the above-defined investment program, incremental operating costs of the coal mines
that would benefit from the project, and other incremental operating and maintenance costs of the power
sector. Taxes and import duties were excluded. The actual exchange rate was taken to be equal to the
shadow exchange rate since the BiH currency is linked to the Deutsche Mark (DM). A shadow wage rate
was not used in the main case because of difficulties in making a reliable estimate, and since its use
would increase an already high rate of return.
Three additional sets of cost-benefit analysis were carried out covering several important project
components for which the benefits could be separated from those of the overall power system investment
program. These analyses included evaluation of: (i) the benefits relative to the costs of the coal mine
investments in the Federation; (ii) the economic viability of the coal mines in the Federation that would
benefit from the project investments; and (iii) the economic viability of the Gacko and Ugljevik coal-
fired power plants and the 32 MW units at Tuzla and Kakanj. In all cases the estimated benefits
exceeded the costs.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$280 million; FRR=26%
The project is financially sound. The financial benefits are equal to the economic benefits since shadow
prices were assumed to be equal to actual prices, and no taxes would be applied to the project
components or the Elektroprivredas, at least to the end of the disbursement period.
Entity financial performance, severely affected during the war period, has improved significantly since
the peace accord. Revenue collections, which had plunged during the war period due to the difficulties
in billing and collection, have steadily been improving as a result of reinstatement of billing and
collection systems, and gradual increases in collection ratios. Consequently, EPM is now able to cover
its cash operating expenses and EPBiH and EPRS are expected to do so by 1998; cost recovery in EPRS
is particularly sensitive, however, to improvement in the social and economic conditions in the RS. Full
cost recovery, including coverage of depreciation charges at appropriate levels, is expected by the year
2000 for EPBiH and EPM, and by 2002 for EPRS.
Financial projections, based on conservative assumptions as to increases in demand (as indicated above)
and in achievable efficiency improvements, confirm that the enterprises will be able to generate the
internal financing required for the project as well as meet the projected debt service levels during project
operations.
3. Fiscal impact:
In the short run, the project would have little positive or negative fiscal impact. The money from most
donors is expected to be passed on to the Beneficiaries on the same terms as it would be given to Bosnia
and Herzegovina (In the case of the IDA credit, however, the repayment term would be 20 years for the
Beneficiaries, but 35 years for the Government). Debt service charges would be very small in the early
years because of grace periods and low or zero interest rates. Budget subsidies would not be needed to



Page 13
finance the local costs of the project. The Beneficiaries would be exempted from import duties and other
taxes on imported equipment for the project, and none of the Beneficiaries will be in a position to pay
corporate income tax over the next several years.
Although the Beneficiaries would be responsible for debt service, Bosnia and Herzegovina would bear a
contingent liability as guarantor for repayment of donor credits. The project itself would contribute to
economic recovery and thereby indirectly augment fiscal revenue from direct and indirect taxes.
4. Technical:
The feasibility study for the rehabilitation of the transmission system, prepared by Mott Ewbank Preece of
the UK, was reviewed by DFID and the Bank and found to be satisfactory. The study concluded that
restoring the priority 110/220 kV transmission facilities and the principal 400 kV inter-entity tie-lines is
essential to the security of power interchange. The engineering and design of the thermal power plants in
the Federation are being carried out by EPBiH, with the assistance of Verbundplan of Austria. The
engineering and design of the thermal power plants in RS are being prepared by EPRS, with the assistance
of engineering consultants from the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Engineering works and studies for
rehabilitationof hydro power plants and distribution networks were prepared by the Electroprivredas. These
studies, including environmental impacts and mitigation measures, were reviewed by the Bank and found
adequate. The project's technical design is appropriate to the needs of Bosnia and Herzegovina and
conforms to required standards. Post-engineering coordination, including the balance of the engineering,
design, preparation of equipment specifications and tender documents, and interface with the contractors
will be performed jointly in BiH by the Elektroprivredas and a Canadian Power Expert Group. Cost
estimates for the generation, transmission, distribution and general plant components were defined based on
detailed damage assessments, rehabilitation studies, and engineering designs carried out by EPBiH, EPM,
EPRS, the coal mine companies, their local consultants, Mott Ewbank Preece of the UK, and Verbundplan
of Austria. The cost estimates reflect end- 1997 prices and are based on the latest international tendering
information available for similar works, which are realistic. Physical contingencies of 10% are used for
both foreign costs and local costs. The price escalation for costs expressed in terms of foreign exchange is
calculated according to anticipated international price increases of 2.2 percent per annum on average for
1997-2000. The price escalation for local costs is calculated according to the projected annual inflation
rates of 5 percent for the Federation and 10 percent for RS during the same period. The allowances for
physical contingencies and price increases during implementation are deemed to be adequate.
5. Institutional:
Executing agencies: The Elektroprivredas' and Coal Mine Companies' ability to implement the project
has been demonstrated by the satisfactory preparation and execution of the IDA-financed Emergency
Recovery Project and Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project and the satisfactory preparation
of the power component of the Reconstruction Assistance Project. The project has been designed and
would be implemented according to internationally accepted technical criteria and standards. The
technologies involved are proven. The executing agencies have the technical and managerial capabilities
to successfully carry out the project.
Project management: To strengthen project management capabilities, EPBiH is already being assisted
by a Norwegian Power Expert Group. EPM and EPRS would be assisted by a Canadian Power Expert
Group. The Consultants would assist in reviewing the design of the project components, preparing the
bid documents, procurement, coordination and project implementation. Training and transfer of
knowledge would be included.



Page 14
6. Social:
An important objective of the project is to restore satisfactory power supply to about 400,000 persons,
mostly in small towns or rural areas, who have had limited or no power supply since the war. The
project would also provide improved quality of electricity supply to many more consumers. The benefits
of fewer outages to consumers who depend on electricity for cooking and space heating would be
considerable. The project would contribute to fuller and more productive employment of coal miners in
both the Federation and RS. The labor needed to produce the incremental coal supply in the Federation
under the project would be about 1,200 persons.
However, improved collection of bills and increases in tariffs would impose additional costs on
consumers, most of whose incomes are still far below pre-war levels. The tariff structures of all three
Elektroprivredas offer lower prices to households than to other consumers (section B2). The tariff study
under EBRD is giving special attention to other ways to alleviate the burden of electricity bills on
socially disadvantaged consumers.
7. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category  []A   [X] B
In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), Environmental Management Plans (EMPs)
are required for the rehabilitation of the thermal power stations included under the project. EMPs for the
Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power stations were already prepared under the Emergency Electric Power
Reconstruction Project, and with slight modification serve adequately for the purpose of the present
project. Separate EMPs were prepared for Ugljevik and Gacko.
The EMPs for all four thermal power stations have been reviewed by the World Bank. It was concluded
that all environmental aspects are satisfactorily addressed and in compliance with Republika Srpska,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, and World Bank environmental regulations, policies and procedures.
Since the project is one of rehabilitation, chief objectives of the EMP are to: (i) identify mitigating
measures to minimize any adverse impacts that might arise from restoring the original operational
performance; and (ii) identify opportunities for environmental enhancement over the original project
concept.
The EMPs examined whether the following environmental aspects warranted remedial action:
*  Atmospheric emissions (dust, S02, NOJ) and ambient air quality both locally and, in the case of
Ugljevik, possible transboundary impacts from operations;
*  Wastewater discharges, and impacts on surface waters;
*  Ash and slag disposal, solids management at the mines (Gacko and Ugljevik), and impacts to both
surface and groundwaters;
*  Noise (at Kakanj); and
*  Possible underground oil storage leaks at Tuzla and Kakanj.
A series of mitigating measures was identified on a priority basis. Because of the limited nature of direct
involvement by the donors in some of these project components, only selected high priority elements of
the mitigation plans for Tuzla, Kakanj, Gacko and Ugljevik could be included. It is hoped that the
remaining actions identified will provide the donor community with a coherent basis for further future
support of a more comprehensive program of environmental management at the four thermal power
stations.
On June 6 and 7, 1997, EPBiH hosted a public meeting in Tuzla with 250 participants, including
government officials from the community and the canton, academia, environmental organizations and
associations, and the media. It was generally recognized that environmental problems in Bosnia and



Page 15
Herzegovina were exacerbated by the power, mining and chemical industry developed during the 1980's,
and that a concerted effort would be needed by both government and industry to remedy the situation
over the long term. However, given the lack of funds and devastation inflicted by the war, priority
should be given to rehabilitating, remediating and controlling pollution at those activities which would
most benefit the economy.
Environmental issues associated with the project and addressed in the EMPs for Gacko and Ugljevik
included all concerns expressed by affected parties in: (i) public meetings conducted for each power
station in July 1997; and (ii) separate independent pollings of additional stakeholders at each site.
It was generally concluded that the beneficial aspects of continued power plant production surpass any
adverse aspects, provided adequate care is taken to ensure environmental protection. To this end,
environmental departments in mines and thermal power stations would be strengthened over time, as
well as their monitoring capabilities. Municipal secretariats for town planning, housing and health would
monitor both power stations and mines to assure mitigation actions are implemented. For the relatively
new Ugljevik plant, installation of flue gas desulfurization within the next five years or so is high
priority.
8. Participatory approach:
The principal organizations involved in project preparation were: EPBiH, EPM, EPRS, RUT, RUSB and
the Energy Ministers of the Federation and RS. There was no direct participation of final electricity
consumers or non-governmental groups that would be affected by the project, except at the above-
mentioned meeting on June 6 and 7, 1997 to discuss environmental aspects.
Wider participation was not invited for the following reasons:
(i)    As far as is known, there is no significant disagreement within BiH on the need to
rehabilitate the electric power system. Since the project would rehabilitate existing
facilities rather than construct new ones, its justification and implementation would be
relatively straightforward, and it would have minimal adverse environmental impacts;
(ii)    The project includes a large number of components affecting large numbers of persons
spread throughout BIH so it would be very complicated to involve all affected final
consumers directly; and
(iii)   There is broad agreement on the need for rapid action in order to restore electricity
service as soon as possible to households, services and industry.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
EPBiH has demonstrated its ability to rehabilitate its power system by implementing the ongoing
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project on schedule. EPM and EPRS have also carried out
rehabilitation projects promptly and effectively when financing has been made available. Factors critical
for sustainability of the power sector components of the project include: (i) overall macroeconomic
progress, which is needed to restore consumers' ability to pay for electricity; (ii) satisfactory financial
performance of the three Elektroprivredas; and (iii) sufficient coordination between the companies to
permit beneficial exchanges of electricity. Rapid economic growth during 1996 and 1997 has
strengthened the ability of consumers to pay for electricity. The proposed bill collection targets for all
three Elektroprivredas are realistic, provided economic recovery continues in both Entities of BiH. If the
collection targets are achieved, the three Elektroprivredas will be able to cover the local costs of the
project as well as finance future maintenance without any Government budget subsidies. Onlending the



Page 16
IDA credit to the three Elektroprivredas at the IDA service charge over a 20-year term, including five
years of grace, would help ensure that these companies maintain satisfactory financial performance. The
measures to be taken under the project for improving electricity exchanges would contribute significantly
to alleviating electricity shortages and reducing costs of supply. The critical factor for sustainability of
the coal mine components of the project is sustained demand for domestic coal by the coal power
stations. This demand will depend on the continued viability of the coal power stations and the price of
domestically produced coal relative to the price of imported coal. The project economic analysis
confirms the economic viability of the coal-fired power generating units expected to use the coal as well
as of the coal mines supported by the project. The measures that would be supported by the project for
coal sector restructuring would increase the sustainability of the coal sector.



Page 17
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                             Risk Rating             Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1. cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Insufficient demand for electricity.                          N          Because of limited resources the project would
likely not meet the expected demand. However,
any time of day surplus power could be
exchanged between companies.
Insufficient power exchanges between the Elektroprivredas.   M           It is  in  the  economic  interest  of the
Elektroprivredas to exchange power. The project
provides for the progressive creation of formal
institutional coordination mechanisms.
Failure to restructure the power sector                       S         The project provides for the enactment and
implementation  of  legislation  for  sector
restructuring.
Failure to rationalize the coal mining sector.                S         The  project provides  for  a  coal  sector
restructuring study and implementation of its
agreed recommendations.
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Incomplete foreign cost financing.                           M           Firm or preliminary commitments have been
made for all but US$4 million. Since each donor
finances separate project sub-components, failure
to find financing for one sub-component would
not prevent the others from going ahead.
Incomplete local cost financing.                       M for EPBiH and  EPBiH has been able to cover the local costs of
EPM; S for EPRS  the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction
Project, and EPM has rehabilitated the Mostar
Hydropower Station on its own.  Mitigating
measures include actions to improve bill
collection and raise tariffs when necessary to
allow the Elektroprivredas to meet agreed
financial targets.
Delayed project completion.                                  M          See above for mitigating measures for financial
problems.  Delays for technical reasons are
unlikely since the project is for rehabilitation
only  and  previous  projects  have  been
implemented  on  schedule.   Technical and
procurement problems would be minimized by
establishing PlUs for all Elektroprivredas with
assistance from foreign consultants.
Cost Overrun.                                                M          The   cost  estimates  include   physical
contingencies of 10% plus price contingencies
determined on the basis of projected international
and local inflation.
Overall Risk Rating.                                         M          The Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction
Project has been successful in meeting its
physical and cost recovery objectives on time.
The proposed project is also for rehabilitation,
which is easier to implement than one involving
completely new facilities, but it is more
ambitious  because  of  the  simultaneous
involvement of EPM and EPRS as well as EPBiH
and because of added institutional objectives.
However, all parties involved have a strong
interest in making the project succeed.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 18
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
There may be controversy over the choice of organizational arrangements to ensure the safe, reliable and
economic operation of the Bosnia and Herzegovina power system on an integrated basis.
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
(a)    appointment of independent auditors acceptable to the Association; and
(b)    execution of subsidiary loan agreements between Bosnia and Herzegovina, the
Federation, Republika Srpska and the three Elektroprivredas.
2. Other:
The Borrower has agreed to:
(a)    onlend the IDA credit through the Federation and RS Governments to EPBiH, EPM and
EPRS on standard IDA terms with 20 years of repayment including five years of grace;
and
(b)    by December 31, 1998, allocate all electric power sector debts to the respective
Elektroprivredas and determine the terms and conditions of repayment.
The Federation has agreed to:
(a)    complete, by March 31, 1999, a sector restructuring study for the Federation's coal
mining sector and take appropriate measures to implement agreed actions thereafter;
(b)    submit to Parliament, by October 31, 1998, a draft Electricity Law based, inter alia, on
acceptable recommendations of the Privatization Project Report (August 1997);
(c)    start implementation, by October 31, 1998, in accordance with a timetable to be agreed
with the Association of power sector restructuring and regulatory reform actions agreed
with the Association; and
(d)    complete an electricity tariff study by December 31, 1998 and implement the agreed
recommendations in accordance with a timetable agreed with the Association.
Republika Srpska has agreed to:
(a)    submit to Parliament, by October 31, 1998, amendments to the RS Electricity Law
based, inter alia, on acceptable recommendations of the Privatization Project; and
(b)    start implementation, by October 31, 1998, in accordance with a timetable to be agreed
with the Association, of power sector restructuring and regulatory reform actions agreed
with the Association.
EPBiH, EPM and EPRS have agreed to:
(a)   institute billing and collection systems resulting in revenue collection (as a percentage of
their respective total cash operating expenses) in the years 1998, 1999 and 2000
respectively, of: 110%, 145% and 165% for EPBiH; 150%, 170% and 185% for EPM;
and 110%, 125% and 140% for EPRS;
(b)    not incur new debt unless that debt is covered at least 1.5 times by their net internal cash



Page 19
generation;
(c)   reduce total distribution losses to 16% in 1999 and 12% in 2000;
(d)    submit within six months after the close of each fiscal year project accounts and financial
statements audited by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA;
(e)   implement adjustments in the structure and levels of electricity tariffs, including
provision for the economic cost of fuel, as appropriate and required for the financial
performance of the enterprises;
(f)    establish, by July 30, 1998, an Electricity Coordinating Center, with members from the
three Elektroprivredas and functions and powers satisfactory to the Association;
(g)   take appropriate measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation of a
technically integrated power system of BiH;
(h)    exchange electric power on a commercial basis by October 31, 1998;
(i)    make cash payments to the coal mines of at least 50% of the value of coal consumed,
starting June 30, 1998 (EPBiH); and
(j)    furnish to the Association by December 31, 1998 revised implementation schedules for
the environmental management plans for the Tuzla, Kakanj, Gacko and Ugljevik thermal
power stations, including sources of financing for proposed investments (EPBiH and
EPRS).
3.    Readiness for Implementation:
The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
The Project Implementation Plan has been agreed.
4.     Compliance with Bank Policies:
This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader:        Richard Hamilton
Sector 1ader Henk Busz
Country Directo              tiaan J. Poortman



Page 20
Annex 1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance            Monitoring and           Critical Assumptions
Indicators                Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:  1. Minimization of       Project progress reports   (Goal to Bank Mission)
Increase efficiency and    unsatisfied demand (kWh).  and supervision missions.  1. Continued political
coverage of infrastructure  2. Avoidance of                                 stability.
networks.               Government subsidies.                               2. Satisfactory economic
growth.
Project Development      1. Electricity generation.    Project progress reports    (Objectives to Goal)
Objectives:             2. Electricity sales.     and supervision missions.  1. Meeting the revenue
1. Restore electric power  3. Losses in transmission                        collection targets is
at least cost.          and distribution.                                   assumed to eliminate the
2. Improve cost recovery.  4. Net income of each                            need for Government
Elektroprivreda.                                   subsidies other than the
5. Electricity price levels.                       concessionary element in
donor credits.
Outputs:                 1. Electricity supply    Project progress reports    (Outputs to Objective)
1. Increased electricity    availability in MW and  and supervision missions.  1. Rehabilitation by EPs
supply capacity.        GWh.                                                proceeds on schedule.
2. Satisfactory financial   2. Revenue collection                           2. Consumers are able to
performance of the      relative to amounts billed                          pay their bills.
Elektroprivredas.       and cash operating costs.                           3. Governments are
3. Improved level and   3. Electricity prices                               willing to adjust
structure of electricity  compared to long-run                              electricity prices.
tariffs.                marginal cost.                                      4. The Elektroprivredas
4. Strengthened         4. Total number of kWh                              are willing to coordinate.
coordination between the  exchanged between the                             5. Bosniacs and Croats
Elektroprivredas.       Elektroprivredas.                                   are able to agree on a
5.Advances in power     5. Restructuring of EPBiH                           satisfactory Federation
sector restructuring.   and EPM.                                            power sector structure.
6. Concentration of coal   6. Implementation of coal                        6. The Federation
production in the least-   sector restructuring study.                      Government is willing to
cost mines.                                                                 rationalize the coal
industry.
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs: (budget for each  Project progress reports    (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex   component, excluding     and supervision missions.  1. Donors will cover all
2 for project description)   contingencies)                                 foreign costs.
1. Power Stations;      1. Power stations: US$40                            2. Beneficiaries will
2. Transmission;        million.                                            cover all local costs.
3. Distribution;        2. Transmission: US$39                              3. Capable project
4. Associated coal mines;  million.                                         management.
5. Technical assistance    3. Distribution: US$41                           4. Avoidance of delays.
and engineering.        million.                                            5. Avoidance of project
4. Coal mines: US$22                               cost overruns.
million.
5. Technical assistance and
engineering: US$6 million.



Page 21
Annex 2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Description
Electric Power
War-related damage to the power sector has been severe, not only because of direct destruction as a
result of war activities but also because of the lack of maintenance due to shortage of materials, spare
parts and manpower. The proposed project is part of the 1997-1999 reconstruction program for the power
sector. It is designed to meet the forecast energy and peak demand increases with acceptable levels of
reliability. The generation component would consist mainly of the rehabilitation of existing hydro and
thermal power plants throughout Bosnia and Herzegovina. The transmission component would focus on
provision of urgent protection, communication and metering for existing 220/110 kV networks, and
rehabilitation of 220/110 kV transmission facilities to reconnect cut-off areas, and priority inter-entity
400 kV tie-lines to improve power exchanges within Bosnia and Herzegovina. Many distribution
networks are in very poor condition. The distribution component would focus on rehabilitation of
networks that suffered extensive war-related damage and degradation, especially in the areas of Bihac,
Anvil and Banja Luka, Sarajevo and surroundings, the Posavina corridor (including Brcko and Tuzla),
and the Central Bosnia and Mostar areas, in order to restore power supply to facilitate economic
reconstruction and the return of refugees and displaced persons. The technical assistance component
would include an Electric Power Transmission and Institutional Rehabilitation study, and support to the
PIUs of the three Elektroprivredas.
The project components consist of:
A.    Generation
(1)   Rama Hvdro Power Plant (US$4.94 million). The power plant is located at the upstream tributary
of the Neretva River. The tail water of Rama Power station flows into the downstream Neretva River hydro
power cascade. It is a high head (325 m) hydro power plant, with an installed capacity of 160 MW (2x80).
There are war related damages in the tunnel and surge tank system, embankment dam and transformer
station. First phase rehabilitation of the civil works and plant equipment has been completed with EPM's
own resources. To improve the availability of the plant, this project would focus on rehabilitation of the
220 kV substation, including SF6 switchgear, 2 generator bays, 2 line bays, 1 transformerbay, and coupling
busbar and measuring bay.
(2)    Jaice 1 Hvdro Power Plant (Second Phase: US$1.21 million). The power station is located on the
Vrbas River. During the war, the power plant changed hands several times between warring factions, and
suffered significant damage. Replacement of the regulator for turbine/generator and mechanical auxiliary
equipment, financed under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project, is underway. To
complete plant rehabilitation this project component would focus on rehabilitation of the electrical
equipment, including replacement of 110 kV SF6 circuit breakers and line and busbar disconnectors.
(3)    Canliina Hydropower Plant (US$0.42 million). The Capljina reversible power plant is located
south of Mostar, and can work both in conventional and pumped-storage modes. The rehabilitation would
include replacement of the damaged air compressor for the plant.
(4)    Trebinie 1 and 2 Hvdro Plant (US$1.62 million). The power plants are located on the Trebisnjica
River in south-east Bosnia and Herzegovina, and were commissioned in the sixties. The rehabilitation of the
plants is long overdue and would include: (i) overhaul of the dam monitoring system; (ii) replacement of the



Page 22
instrumentation and control equipment for the turbine/generator units; (iii) overhaul of the power station
control and supervisory system; and (iv) replacement of worn out maintenance equipment and tools.
(5)    Bocac Hydropower Plant (US$2.67 million). The power plant is located on the Vrbas River, and is
essential to ensure the reliability of power supply to the city of Banja Luka (about 35 km downstream). The
power plant changed hands between warring factions, which caused considerable damage. The
rehabilitation would include: (i) overhauling the dam monitoring system; (ii) rehabilitating the
turbine/generator bearings and control equipment; (iii) replacing control, protection, measuring, signaling
and communicationequipment; and (iv) replacing worn out maintenance equipment and tools.
(6)    Tuzla Thermal Power Plant (Second Phase: US$15.30 million). The first phase rehabilitation of
the 100 MW cogeneration unit (financed under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Proj ect), was
completed in late 1997. The second phase rehabilitation would focus on common facilities and
maintenance of the 32 MW cogeneration units, and includes: (i) reinforcement of the cooling tower; (ii)
replacement of coal handling equipment; (iii) overhaul of the water treatment plant; (iv) rehabilitating
instrumentationand control (I&C), and automation; (v) refurbishment of the 6 kV system; (vi) provision of
spares for major maintenance of the two 32 MW cogeneration units to prevent breakdown; (vii) plant
mechanical and electrical equipment; and (viii) balance of plant.
(7)   Kakani Thermal Power Plant (Second Phase: US$9.45 million). The first phase rehabilitation of
two 110 MW cogeneration units is being carried out under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction
Project. The second phase rehabilitationwould focus on plant common facilities and maintenance of the 32
MW cogeneration units, and would include: (i) overhaul of the water treatment plant; (ii) replacement of
the control and monitoring equipment for two 110 MW cogeneration units; and (iii) spare parts for major
maintenance of the two 32 MW cogeneration units to prevent breakdown. With the 220 kV transmission
trunk line linkage, rehabilitated under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project, the Kakanj
and Tuzla thermal power plants will bring large benefits, especially during the dry seasons.
(8)    Gacko Thermal Power Plant (US$6.29 million). This plant was commissioned in 1983 and has an
installed capacity of 300 MW. Since commissioning there have been continual problems, which have
limited both the power production and availability of the plant. The normal generating output is about 210
MW. The power plant caught fire in July 1996 and is under repair. The rehabilitation would include: (i)
repair of the turbine/generator; (ii) repair and upgrade of the electrostatic precipitator; and (iii)
environmental protection at the ash yard.
(9)   Uglievik Thermal Power Plant (US$4.31 million). The plant was commissioned in 1982 and is
generally in fair condition. With proper maintenance the plant should be available for continual operation
until well after 2000. The component includes: (i) spare parts for boiler maintenance; and (ii) replacement
of worn out maintenance equipment and tools.
B.    Transmission
(I)    Rehabilitation of Inter-Entity Transmission Facilities (US$35.41 million) to: (i) provide
communication and metering equipment for power exchanges, and control equipment for existing 110 and
220 kV transmission lines; (ii) provide equipment for urgent protection measures on existing 220/110 kV
transmission lines; (iii) provide equipment and materials for rehabilitation of the 400 kV transmission lines
(Tuzla-Sarajevo, Sarajevo-Mostar, Mostar-Gacko, and Visegrad-Tuzla), with a total of 119 km of damaged
lines and 495 damaged towers; (iv) rehabilitate 220 kV lines (Tuzla-Gradacac-Djakovo)with a total of 36
km of damaged lines and 50 damaged towers; and (v) rehabilitate the Doboj and Tuzla regions' 110 kV ring
connections, with a total of 106 km of damaged lines and 77 damaged towers.



Page 23
(2)     Rehabilitationof TransmissionFacilities in the Federation (US$4.78 million). The rehabilitationof
110/220 kV transmission facilities was given top priority in 1996, mainly for the central Bosnia and Bihac
areas of the Federation (555 km of 110/220 kV lines and 752 MVA substation capacities were
rehabilitated). The immediate priority under this project would be to rehabilitate: (i) Gradacac substation
(220/110 kV), including replacement of power transformer, circuit breakers, disconnectors, measuring
transformers, lightning arresters and auxiliary equipment; and (ii) the 110 kV transmission line from Mostar
2 to Stolac, including reconstructionof 28 km of damaged lines and 3 damaged towers.
(3)     Rehabilitation of Transmission Facilities in RS (US$4.11 million). The immediate priority is to
rehabilitate: (i) the 110 kV Brcko 2 and Srebrenica substations, including transformer overhaul and
replacement of circuit breakers, disconnectors, measurement transformers, lightning arresters and auxiliary
equipment; and (ii) the 110 kV transmission lines (Konjevik Polje-Srebrenica, Banja Luka 6-Prijedor 5,
Banjaluka-Gradiska,and Pale-Gorazde),includingrepairof 655 km of lines and 386 towers.
C.      Distribution
Rehabilitationof DistributionNetworks. Many of the distribution networks suffered major destruction as
a result of heavy local fighting and lack of maintenance. The greatest destruction was in distribution
transformer substations, MV and LV overhead lines, underground cables, distribution pylons, and
maintenance equipment. The restoration of distribution networks is essential, particularly in: (a) heavily
damaged and cutoff areas, which are populated today but have little or no electricity supply; (b) areas
with war damage, where many connections are of a temporary nature and power supply is unreliable and
unsafe; (c) areas with seriously overloaded networks, due to resettlement of refugees; and (d) areas
earmarked for refugee return, where the networks need urgent repair and maintenance. All the network
candidates were screened using these mentioned criteria. This project component would cover the
following most urgent reconstructionneeds:
(i) Rehabilitation of Distribution Networks in the Federation (US$31.50 million) . The work
would include rehabilitation of 35, 20, 10 and 0.4 kV networks in the most damaged areas of the
following cantons: Unsko-Sanski, Posavski, Tuzlansko-Podrinjski, Zenicko-Dobojski, Srednjebosanski,
Sarajevo and Zapadnobosanski. This component would consist of 7 distribution substations with voltage
of 35/20(10) kV, 550 km of medium voltage network (overhead and cable), 339 distribution substations
with voltage of 10-20/0.4 kV, and 1,104 km of low voltage network (overhead and cable), serving
172,000 customers. A detailed description of the main items follows:
Gan-<t., .t.  d            s1  >ion                             RtXSbLet'nt.                   ;<,.,
No. of inhabitants: 266,000           35/20(10) kV substation:
1. Unsko Sanski          No. of refugees: 100,000              Bosanska Krupa (switchgear and power transformer)
EU $1.28 mn (EP BiH);    Significant war damages  in  Bihac,  10-20/0.4 kV power transformers:
Netherlands $1.1 mn (EP  Bosanska Krupa, Buzim,Cazin, Velika  80 units (21 MVA).
BiH)                     Kladusa, Bosanski Petrovac, Kljuc and  20 kV overhead lines (18 km):
Sanski Most distribution areas. Damaged  Tmova, Vrhpolje,Dabar - 9, Cekrcici, Hrustovo.
distribution substations, medium and low  20 kV cable network (180 km):
voltage networks need to be rehabilitated  Otoka, Vodovod, Mahica brdo, Zanatski centar.
to resume normal power supply. About 20  LV overhead line (59 km):
% of consumers have only limited access  Trnova, Vrhpolje,Dabar- 9, Cekrcici, Hrustovo.
to power supply.                      LV cable network (122 km): Otoka, Vodovod, Mahica
brdo, Zanatski centar.
2. Posavski              No. of inhabitants: 59,000            35/20(10) kV substations (5 units):
USAID $3.5 mn (EPM);    No. of refugees: 30,000               Odzak, Novi Grad, Domaljevac, Tolisa, Brcko Ravne.
EU $3.0 mn (EPM)        Substation, medium  and  low  voltage  10-20/0.4 kV substabons (47 units):
networks  were  damaged  in  Odzak,  Odzak, Orasje, Brcko Ravne.
Orasje, Bosanski Samac and  Brcko  35 kV overhead line (25 km):
Ravne distribution areas, which need to  Odzak, Orasje.
be rehabilitated to enable normal power  20 kV overhead line (40 km):
supply. About 50% of consumers have  Odzak, Orasje, Brcko Ravne.
only limited access to power supply.  LV overhead line (250 km):
Odzak, Orasje, Brcko Ravne.



Page 24
3. Tuzlansko-Podrinjski  No. of inhabitants: 605,000           35/20(10) kV substation: Sapna
USAID$2.7 mn(EP BiH);    No. of refugees: 200,000               ( switchgear, power transformer, building)
EU $1.07 mn (EP BiH)     Substations were totally destroyed and  10-20/0.4 kV substations: Kalesija, Gradacac, Olovo,
medium and low voltage networks were  Sapna, Teocak
damaged in Kalesija, Gradacac, Olovo,  10-20/0.4 kV power transformers:
Sapna,  Teocak   distribution   areas.  30 units ( 8.9 MVA)
Damaged  facilities   need  to  be  35 kV overhead line (20 km):
rehabilitated  and  replaced  to  enable  Gradacac.
normal power supply.                  20 kV overhead line (34 km): Kalesija, Gradacac,
Olovo, Sapna, Teocak.
About 10% of consumers have limited or  20 kV cable network (10 km): Kalesija, Gradacac,
no access to power supply.            Olovo, Sapna, Teocak.
LV overhead line (136 km): Kalesija, Olovo, Sapna
Gradacac, Teocak.
LV cable network: Gradacac, Olovo, Kalesija.
4. Zenicko-Dobojski      No. of inhabitants: 481,000           35 kV overhead line (6 km):
USAID$0.1i9mn(EPBiH);    No. of refugees: 100,000              Jelah - Tesanj.
EU $1. 07 mn (EP BiH)
Medium and low voltage networks were  20 kV overhead line (35 km): Zenica, Zavidovici
damaged in Zenica, Nemila, Zavidovici,  Cekrcici,
Doboj, Zepce and Busovaca distribution  Busovaca.
areas, which need to be rehabilitated and
replaced to enable normal power supply.   LV overhead line (110 km): Zenica,Kakanj,
Busovaca, Zavidovici, Zepce.
About 8% of consumers have no or
limited access to power supply.
5. Srednjebosanski       No. of inhabitants: 195,000           10-20/0.4 kV substations (12 units):
USAID$1.45mn (EPM);    No. of refugees: 30,000                 Novi Travnik, Vitez, Nova Bila, Busovaca, Kresevo
EU $0.32 mn (EPM)       Substation, medium  and  low  voltage  and Kiseljak.
networks were damaged in Novi Travnik,  35 kV overhead line (11 km):
Vitez, Nova Bila, Busovaca, Kresevo and  Novi Travnik, Vitez, Kiseljak.
Kiseljak distribution areas, which need to  20 kV overhead line (30 km):
be rehabilitated to enable normal power  Novi Travnik, Vitez, Nova Bila, Busovaca, Kresevo
supply. About 25% of consumers have  and Kiseljak.
only limited access to power supply.  LV overhead line (70 km):
Novi Travnik, Vitez, Nova Bila, Busovaca, Kresevo
and Kiseljak.
6. Sarajevo              No. of inhabitants: 409,000           10-20/0.4kV substations (62 units): Centar, Novo
USAID$6.75mn(EPBiH);    No. of refugees: 20,000                Sarajevo, Novi Grad.
EU $1.18 mn (EPBiH)      Medium and low voltage networks were  llidza, Vogosca, Ilijas, Hadzici, Tmovo.
damaged in Stari Grad, Centar, Novo  10-20/0,4kV power transformers:
Sarajevo, Novi Grad, llidza, Vogosca,  31 units (14,69 MVA).
Hadzici, Trnovo and  llijas distribution  35 kV over head line (10 km): llidza.
areas which need to be rehabilitated to  35 kV cable network (3 km): llidza.
enable normal power supply.           20 kV overhead line (51 km):
Star Grad, Centar, Novo Sarajevo, Novi Grad,llidza,
About 30% of consumers have no access  Vogosca, Illijas, Hadzici.
or limited access to power supply.    20 kV cable network (67 km):
Stari Grad, Centar, Novi Grad,llidza.
LV overhead line (273 km):
Stari Grad, Centar, Novo Sarajevo, Novi Grad, llidza,
Vogosca, llijas, Hadzici, Trnovo.
LV cable network (40 km):
Stari Grad, Centar, Novo Sarajevo, Novi Grad, llidza,
Vogosca, Ilijas, Hadzici, Trnovo.
7. Zapadnobosanski       No. of inhabitants: 84,000            10-20/0.4 kV substations (10 units):
EU $1.39 mn (EPM)      No. of refugees: 30,000                Kupres, Bosansko Grahovo, Livno.
Substation, medium  and  low  voltage  10-20/0.4 kV, 630 kVA power transformers:
networks  were  damaged  in  Livno,  Kupres.
Tomislavgrad, Drvar, Bosansko Grahovo,  20 kV overhead line (45 km):
Glamoc and Kupres distribution areas,  Kupres, Bosansko Grahovo, Livno.
which need to be rehabilitated to enable  LV overhead line (42 km):
normal power supply. About 30%  of  Kupres, Bosansko Grahovo, Livno.
consumers have only limited access to
power supply.



Page 25
(ii) Rehabilitation of Distribution Networks in RS (US$15.52 million). This work would include
rehabilitation of the 35, 20, 10 and 0.4 kV networks in the areas of Bijeljina, Pale, Trebinje, Doboj and
Banja Luka. This component would consist of 5 distribution substations with voltages of 35 or 20 kV, 120
km of medium voltage network, 171 distribution substations with a voltage of 10/0.4 kV, and 330 km of
low voltage network, serving 365,700 customers. A detailed description of the main items follows:
Bijeljina                No. of customers: 82,025                35kV transmission lines (TL) (34 km):
EU $0.54 mn;             No. of Refugees: 32.,591               Vlasenica - Sekovici - Brcko - Brezovo Poije - Bukovica
UK $1.13 mn;             Significantwar damage in Brcko, Vlasenica  35/10 kV substation (SS):
USAID $3.65 mn           and Sekovici distribution areas. Damaged  Bijeljina II, Bijeljina lIl
(EPRS)                   transmission lines and substatons and LV  10 kV TL (103 km)
network need to be replaced.           10/0.4 kV substation: 117 pcs.
LV network: 85 km
Pale                      No. of Consumers: 38,833               35 kV TL: Visegrad, Rogatica (23 km).
EU $0.54 mn;             Numberof Refugees: 26,413               20 kV TL: Koran - Trebevic,Sokolac- Kaljina (49km)
UK $0.62 mn              Distribution networks in Pale, Rogatica,  35/10 kV SS: Trnovo.
(EPRS)                   Rudo, Visegrad and Trnovo.              20(10)/0.4 kV  SS  Brijezda, Sirokari II, Podhrid,
Damages need to be rehabilitated to  Rogatica, Kovanj, Oskorusa, Cajnici.
resume normal power supply.            20 kV cables: Pale (3 km)
10 kV TL Sirokari 1 - Trnovo, Sirokari II, Podhrid II,
Mresa - Vucja Luka, Sokolac- Kaljiva (50 km).
LV network area:
Plandiste, Dorici, Obrvena, Sokolovici, Maljkovici,
Medjurecje, Slatina, Miljevo, Trnovo, Paviljoni Visegrad,
Okrugla Visegrad, Rogatica (40 km).
Trebinje                  No. of Consumers: 24,500               110 kV TL: Trebinje - Velicani (16 km)
EU $0.54 mn;             Numberof Refugees: 8,400                10 kV TL: Velicani strujici, Duzi - Slivnica, Domastvo.
UK $0.55 mn              Damaged connectors, insulators poles, for  Grab, Krivaca-vricka, Gacko - Nadanici - Lukavica,
(EPRS)                   MV, MV and LV networks need to be  Nevesinje, Kifino selo, Ljubinje ograda (153km)
replaced.                              10/0.4 kV SS: Ljubinje 250 kVA
LV network area: Trebinje, Bileca, Gacko, Nevesinje,
Ljubinje (52 km).
Doboj                    No. of Customers: 60,300                110/35/10 kV SS: Samac.
EU $0.75 mn;             No. of Refugees: 8,400                  35/10 kV SS: Petrovo.
USAID $1.65 mn           Distribution networks in Doboj, Stanari,  35 kV TL: Petrovo - Sockovac (10 km).
(EPRS)                   Vukosavlje, Derventa, Modrica, Brod,  10 kV TL: (178 km).
Samac and Teslic damaged during the war  10/0.4 kV SS: 10 pcs
and need to be repaired.               LV network: (68 km).
Banja Luka               No. of customers: 160,000              35 kV TL: Grad-Jezero; Mrkonjic Grad-Previja.
EU $0.75 mn              No. of refugees: 23,833                20(10)/0.4 kV SS: 14 pcs Kozarac area, 8 pcs Ljubija, 8
UK $1.20 mn              The distribution networks in  Kozarac,  pcs. AmabrineTukovi, 6 pcs. OmarskaTrnopolje.
(EPRS)                   Ijubinje, Ambarine, Tukovi and Omarska,  20(10) kV TL: (20 km).
Tmopoije areas were deteriorated due to  LV networks: (85 km).
war and need to be rehabilitated.
D.       TechnicalAssistance
(1)     Transmission and Institutional Rehabilitation Study (US$0.89 million). Consultants' services are
being provided to assist the three Elektroprivredas to prepare a Transmission and Institutional
Rehabilitation Study. The study is required to prioritize the rehabilitation of the remaining components of
the transmission network of Bosnia and Herzegovina and to outline the institutional capacities required to
operate the fully re-integrated electric power system.
(2)    Engineering and Proiect Management (US$6.35 million). The project will finance expatriate
engineering services to assist in the preparation of sub-project detailed designs and bidding documents, and
to provide assistance to the PIUs of EPRS and EPM for project implementation and construction
supervision. The PIU within EPBiH has been receiving assistance from a Norwegian power expert group
under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project. Local engineering services and sub-project
management will be delivered and financed by the respective Elektroprivredas. To support the operation of
the PIUs, the project will finance the supply of basic office equipment, and support part of the PIUs'
operating costs.



Page 26
Associated Coal Mines
A.    Federation
The objectives of the coal component for the Federation are to further increase the coal output of the
associated low-cost mines of RUT and RUSB, and to improve the reliability and efficiency of operating
these mines. Supply of materials, spare parts and auxiliary equipment would support an efficient
operation of the main equipment over the next two years, and restructuring of the industry for sustainable
efficient production would commence. Total foreign costs are estimated at US$14.0 million.
RUT (foreign cost US$7.0 million). Materials, spare parts and auxiliary equipment for the Banovici,
Sikulje and Dubrave surface mines as well as for the Mramor underground mine would be purchased and
installed. Worn and damaged rubber belts of conveyors in the Dubrave and Sikulje mines would be
replaced. Trucks of the Banovici mine would be fitted with urgently needed new tires. An adequate
supply of spare parts would keep trucks, excavators and auxiliary equipment in the Banovici, Dubrave
and Sikulje mines in good working condition. Bulldozers which have exceeded their useful lifetimes or
are badly damaged would be replaced. Unsafe electrical equipment would be replaced in the Mramor
underground mine and pumps would be purchased for this mine to keep working places dry.
RUSB (foreign cost US$7.0 million). Auxiliary equipment and spare parts for the Vrtliste surface mine
and the Breza underground mine would be purchased and installed. The workshop of the Vrtliste mine
would be furnished with essential tools and equipment to service and repair the mobile mining
equipment donated by the USA and EU under the Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project. An
additional drill, a small hydraulic excavator, lifting equipment and service vehicles would be added to
the auxiliary mining equipment to enhance the performance of the main mining equipment in the Vrtliste
surface mine, and the obsolete electrical equipment of the Russian EKG excavators would be replaced.
In the Breza underground mine, a section of the coal transport conveyor would be replaced. In addition,
spare parts for the hydraulic roof support and a coal shearer would further increase and stabilize coal
output of the Breza underground mine.
Technical Assistance for Restructuring (US$0.30 million). Technical assistance would be provided to:
design cost reduction measures for the low-cost mines selected under the project mines and introduce
managerial and operational changes; support an optimal system to regulate the separation of uneconomic
mines and introduce a conditional and temporary subsidy scheme for these mines; and prepare a program
to mitigate the social and environmental impact of manpower reductions and mine closures.
B.    Republika Srpska
The objective of the coal component for Republika Srpska is to secure adequate coal supply from the
Ugljevik and Gacko mines at about two-thirds of their capacity over the next two years. This component
would consist of the supply of materials, spare parts and auxiliary equipment to support the efficient
operation of the existing main equipment.
Ugljevik (foreign cost US$3.0 million). Worn and damaged tires of the mine trucks would be replaced.
Spare parts would be provided for trucks, excavators, bulldozers and auxiliary equipment. The main
obsolete and worn bulldozers would be replaced.
Gacko (foreign cost US$4 million). Rubber belts of key coal and overburden conveyors would be
replaced. Essential spare parts for key mining equipment would be provided. A few new trucks, service
vehicles and pumps would be procured.



Page 27
Annex 3
BOSNIA AND EIERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost
ITEM                                             |COST (S million)7      
|Local   |Foreign  |To tal    |ENTITY         l
L ELECTRIC POWER
A. GENERATION
1. Rama Hydro Plant (2x80 MW)                       0.63       3.70      4.33        Fed.
2. Jajce I Hydro Plant (3x10 MW)                    0.18       0.88       1.06       Fed.
3. Capljina Hydro Plant (2x215 MW)                  0.11       0.26      0.37        Fed.
4. Trebinje I & 2 Hydro Plants (3x60 MW + lx8 MW)   0.25       1.14       1.40       RS
5. Bocac Hydro Plant (2x55 MW)                      0.41       1.89      2.31        RS
6. Tuzla Thermal Plant (Second Phase - 2x32 MW)     0.99       12.45      13.44      Fed.
7. Kakanj Thermal Plant (Second Phase 2x32MW)       0.79       7.50       8.29       Fed.
8. Gacko Thermal Plant (lx300 MW)                   1.71       3.66      5.37        RS
9. Ugljevik Thermal Plant (Ix300 MW)                0.77       2.94      3.71        RS
Federation Generation Subtotal  2.70     24.78      27.48
RS Generation Subtotal  3.15      9.64       12. 79
Generation Subtotal  5.85       34.42     40.27
B. TRANSMISSION
INTER-ENTITY
1. Communications, metering and control for 220/1 10 kV    1.98  11.58    13.56      Fed.& RS
lines (first phase)
2. Urgent protection for existing 220/110 kV lines  0.09       0.35      0.44        Fed.& RS
3. Capital investment and forward provisioning for 400 kV   1.35  7.80   9.15        Fed.& RS
lines Tuzla-Sarajevo, Sarajevo-Mostar, Mostar-Gacko,
Visegrad-Tuzla
4. 220 kV lines (Tuzla - Gradacac - Djakovo)        0.21       1.32       1.53       Fed.& RS
5. Doboj and Tuzla regions 110 kV ring connection   0.90       5.28      6.18        Fed & RS
Inter-entity Transmission Subtotal  4.53   26.33      30.86
FEDERATION
1. 220/110 kV Substation Gradacac                   0.41       3.13      3.54        Fed.
2. 110 kV line Mostar 2 - Stolac                    0.18       0.48      0.66        Fed.
Federation Transmission Subtotal  0.59     3.61       4.19
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
1. Rehabilitation of 110 kV Brcko 2 Substation      0.27       1.32       1.59       RS
2. Rehabilitation of 110 kV transmission lines and  0.45       1.50       1.95       RS
substations in Srebrenica, Prijedor - Banja Luka area and
Gorazde
RS Transmission Subtotal  0.72      2.82       3.54
Transmission Subtotal  5.83       32.76     38.59



Page 28
Annex 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost
(continued)
ITEM                                                COST (US$ million)
Local      Foreign   Total       ENTITY
C. DISTRIBUTION
FEDERATION
1. Unsko-Sanski Canton (No. 1)                      0.54       2.09      2.63        Fed.
2. Posavski Canton (No. 2)                          1.35       5.72      7.07        Fed.
3. Tuzlansko-Podrinjski Canton (No. 3)              0.86       3.32      4.17        Fed.
4. Zenicko-Dobojski Canton (No. 4)                  0.28       1.11       1.39       Fed.
5. Srednjebosanski Canton (No. 6)                   0.45       1.56      2.01        Fed.
6. Sarajevo Canton (No. 9)                          1.78       6.98       8.76       Fed.
7. Zapadnobosanski Canton (No. 10)                  0.30       1.22       1.52       Fed.
Federation Distribution Subtotal  5.55    22.00     27.55
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
1. Bijeljina Area                                   1.21       4.68      5.89        RS
2. Pale Area                                        0.29       1.02       1.31       RS
3. Trebinje Area                                    0.27       0.96       1.23       RS
4. Doboj Area                                       0.68       2.11       2.79       RS
5. Banja Luka                                       0.44       1.72      2.16        RS
RS Distribution Subtotal  2.88     10.49     13.37
Distribution Subtotal  8.43     32.49      40.92
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
1. Transmission Study                               0.07       0.70      0.77        Fed.& RS
2. Consultants Services                             0.00       0.88       0.88       Fed.& RS
3. Project Implementation Support                   0.00       0.44       0.44       Fed.& RS
Technical Assistance Subtotal  0.07     2.02       2.09
E. ENGINEERING & PROJECT MANAGEMENT
FEDERATION                                          2.70       -          2.70       Fed.
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA                                    1.35                  1.35       RS
Engineering & Management Subtotal  4.05        -         4.05
of which: Federation Power Subtotal         13.84      64.58     78.42
RS Power Subtotal                   10.40     37.11      47Z51



Page 29
Annex 3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost
(continued)
ITEM                                                 COST (US$ million)
Local      Foreign    Total      ENTITY
II. ASSOCIATED COAL MINES
1. Tuzla Coal Mines                                 0.63        6.16      6.79        Fed.
2. Central Bosnia Coal Mines                         0.63       6.16       6.79       Fed.
3. Coal Sector Restructuring Study                   -          0.26       0.26       Fed.
4. Gacko Coal Mines                                  0.59       3.52      4.11        RS
S. Ugljevik Coal Mines                               1.16       2.64      3.80        RS
of which: Federation Coal Subtotal         1.26        12.58     13.84
RS Coal Subtotal                   1.75        6.16      7.91
TOTAL BASE COST                       27.25      120.44    147.68
of which: Federation Base Cost Subtotal       15.10      77.16      92.26
RS Base Cost Subtotal                 12.15      43.27      55.42
Physical Contingencies                3.03       13.69      16.71
Price Contingencies                 2.60        2.74      5.34
Total Taxes and Duties (not included in Total Project
Cost)
of which, Federation                                 14.05                1405        13.32%
RS                                                   8.14                  8.14       12.66%



Page 30
Annex 3, Attachment I
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Estimated Foreign Cost and Financing Plan
US$ million
COMPONENT                         TOTAL  FINANCING                        FINANCIER
FOREIGN    GAP
COST
IDA    EU    UK  USA JAPAN  NL  OECF CANADA    ENTITY
1. POWER SECTOR
Generation
1. Rama Hydro Plant (2x80 MW)                             4.20      0.00   4.20                                                    Fed.
2. Jajce 1 Hydro Plant (3x10 MW)                          1.00      0.00   1.00                                                    Fed.
3. Capljina Hydro Plant (2x215 MW)                        0.30      0.00   0.30                                                    Fed.
4. Trebinje 1 & 2 Hydro Plants (3x60 MW + 1x8 MW)         1.30      0.00   1.30                                                    RS
5. Bocac Hydro Plant (2x55 MW)                            2.15      0.00   2.15                                                    RS
6. Tuz(a Therrnal Plant (Second Phase - 2x32 MW)         14.14      0.00  11.14        3.00                                        Fed.
7. Kakanj Thermal Plant(Second Phase 4x32MW)              8.52      0.00                                         8.52              Fed.
8. Gacko Thermal Plant (1x300 MW)                         4.16      0.00   3.87        0.29                                        RS
9. Ugljevik Thermal Plant (1x300 MW)                      3.34      3.34                                                           RS
Subtotal    39.11       3.34  23.96        3.29                     8.52
Transmission
Inter-entities
1. Communications, metering and control for 400/220/110 kV  13.16   0.00                           13.16                         Fed+RS
lines (first phase)
2. Urgent protection for existing 220/110 kV lines        0.40      0.00               0.40                                      Fed+RS
3. Equipment and materials for 400 kV lines Tuzia-Sarajevo,  8.88   0.00                            8.86                         Fed+RS
Sarajevo-Mostar, Mostar-Gacko, Visegrad-TuzIa
4. 220 kV lines (Tuzla -Gradacac- Djakovo)                1.50      0.00               1.50                                      Fed+RS
5. Doboj and Tuzia regions 110 kV ring connedion          6.00      0.12               2.50         0.88                 2.50    Fed+RS
Subtotal    29.92       0.12               4.40        22.90                 2.50
Federation
1. 220/110 kV Substation Gradacac                         3.56      0.00               1.00         2.56                          Fed.
2. 110 kV Line Mostar 2 - Stolac                          0.54      0.00   0.54                                                    Fed.
Subtotal     4.10       0.00   0.54        1.00         2.56
Republika Srpska
1. Rehabilitation of 110 kV Brcko 2 Substation            1.50      0.00                                                 1.50      RS
2. Rehabilitation of 110 kV transmission lines and substations  1.71  0.00       1.71                                              RS
in Srebrenica, Pnjedor - Banja Luka area and Gorazde
Subtotal     3.21       0.00         1.71                                    1.50
Distribution
Federation
1. Unsko-Sanski Canton                                    2.38      0.00         1.28                     1.10                    Fed.
2. Posavski Canton                                        6.50      0.00         3.00        3.50                                 Fed.
3. Tuzlansko-Podrinjski Canton                            3.77      0.00         1.07        2.70                                 Fed.
4. Zenicko-Dobojski Canton                                1.26      0.00         1.07        0.19                                  Fed.
5. Gomjedrinski Canton                                    0.00      0.00                                                           Fed.
6. Srednjebosanski Canton                                 1.77      0.00         0.32        1.45                                  Fed.
7. Neretvljanski Canton                                   0.00      0.00                                                           Fed.
8. Zapadnohercegovacki Canton                             0.00      0.00                                                           Fed.
9. Sarajevo Canton                                        7.93      0.00          1.18       6.75                                 Fed.
10. Zapadnobosanski Canton                                1.39      0.00         1.39                                             Fed.
Subtotal    25.00       0.00         9.31       14.59         1.10
Repubilka Srpska
1. Bijeljina Area                                         5.32      0.00         0.54  1.13  3.65                                  RS
2. Pale Area                                              1.16                   0.54  0.62                                        RS
3. Trebinje Area                                          1.09      0.00         0.54  0.55                                        RS
4. Doboj Area                                             2.40      0.00         0.75        1.65                                  RS
5. Banja Luka                                             1.95      0.00         0.75  1.20                                        RS
Subtotal     11.92      0.00         3.12  3.50  5.30
Technical Assistance
1. Transmission Study                                     0.80      0.00               0.80                                      Fed+RS
2. Consultants Services                                   1.00      0.00                                                 1.00    Fed+RS
3. Project Implementation Support                         0.50      0.00   0.50                                                  Fed+RS
Subtotal     2.30       0.00   0.50        0.80                              1.00
II. COAL SECTOR
1. Tuzla Coal Mines                                       7.00      0.00                                        7.00               Fed.
2. Central Bosnia Coal Mines                              7.00      0.00                                         7.00              Fed.
3. Coal Sector Restnucturing Assistance                   0.30      0.30                                                           Fed.
4. Gacko Coal Mines                                       4.00      0.00               2.71                      1.29               RS
5. Uglievik Coal Mines                                    3.00      0.00                                         3.00              RS
Subtotal    21.30       0.30               2.71                    18.29
TOTAL FOREIGN COST                                      136.86      3.76  25.00  14.14 15.70 19.89  25.46  1.10  26.81    5.00



Page 31
Annex 4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
COST BENEFIT ANALYSIS
The results of the economic and financial cost benefit analyses are summarized as follows:
Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
(US$million, 1997 prices)
Present Value of Flows      Fiscal Impact
Economic      Financial
Analysis      Analysis     'Taxes         Subsidies
Benefits
Electricity Revenue  1,322         1,322         -
Costs
Investments          362           362
Fed. Coal Costs      103           103           -
Other O&M            577           577           -
Net Benefits:        280           280           -
IRR:                 26%           26%
Main Assumptions.
The project is part of the overall investment programs of EPBiH, EPM, EPRS, RUT and RUSB to
rehabilitate the power and coal sectors. It includes many components of varying sizes for many power
stations, transmission lines and distribution networks.  The benefits of many individual project
components could not be separated from the benefits of other project components and of simultaneous
investments not covered under the project. Therefore the main cost-benefit analysis was made for the
whole investment program of which the project is a part. This program consists of all actual power
sector investments for 1996 and 1997, all projected power system investment expenditures for 1998 and
1999 except investments not covered by the proposed project for which financing has not already been
committed, plus the coal mine investments included under the project. For the investment program
defined in this way, estimates were made of the net present value and the internal economic rate of
return. The without program case, against which the program benefits were evaluated, was taken to be
the continuation of the power supply situation which existed in 1996 (but for hydropower stations in full
operation in 1996 the production in an average hydrological year was substituted for the actual 1996
production). While, in the absence of the rehabilitation program, power supply would likely diminish
over time, no account was taken of this possibility because of the difficulty of predicting the rate of
decline. One consequence of this definition of the without program is to provide conservative estimates
of the program benefits.
Three additional sets of cost-benefit analyses were carried out covering several important project
components for which the benefits could be separated from those of the overall power system investment
program. These analyses include evaluation of: (i) the benefits relative to costs of the coal mine
investments in the Federation; (ii) the economic viability of the coal mines in the Federation that would
benefit from the project investments; and (iii) the economic viability of the Gacko, Ugljevik, Tuzla and
Kakanj coal-fired power plants.



Page 32
Demand Forecast. Gross electricity consumption in BIH grew by 20% in 1997 to reach 6,974 GWh
(Table A4. 1). Sales from the distribution entities reached 4,914 GWh. The Elektroprivredas project
sales by distribution entities to grow by 11% per year from 1997 to 2003. The growth rates for EPBiH,
EPM and EPRS of 11.5%, 11.9% and 10.2% per year, respectively, are reasonable in view of forecast
economic growth in Bosnia and Herzegovina of 12.3% per year over the same period (Country
Assistance Strategy, Report No. 16866-BiH, July 31, 1997). Direct sales from transmission networks to
large industrial consumers were 265 GWh in 1997, only 8% of the 1990 level. Direct industrial sales are
forecast by the Elektroprivredas to increase to 2,740 GWh by 2003, 86% of the 1990 level. This forecast
is uncertain. It assumes that electricity consumption by the aluminum and iron industries in the area
served by EPM will return to their 1990 levels of 1,400 GWh and 600 GWh respectively, or the
emergence of new industries. Transmission and distribution losses are assumed to decline from 28% in
1996 to 11% by 2001 as a result of rehabilitation of the transmission and distribution systems and
reduction in non-technical losses. The high current distribution losses include large non-technical losses
as well as abnormal technical losses due to the fact that the distribution networks have only been
partially rehabilitated. The target of 11% in 2001 is realistic since this level was normal for BiH prior to
the war. Failure to achieve this level, however, would require correspondingly higher electricity
production.
Forecast Energv Balance. The forecast electric energy balance shown in Table A4.2 assumes the
realization of the proposed project and all other power generation investments during the period 1996-
1999 for which financing has already been committed. It excludes planned investments in the Tuzla G6
and Kakanj G7 coal-fired units, which produced 2,400 GWh in 1990. The estimates of hydropower
production assume average hydrological conditions. Total net generation is shown to rise from 7,340
GWh in 1996 to 10,500 GWh in 2000. The energy balance shows a supply deficit rising from 872 GWh
in 1999 to 2,912 GWh in 2003.
Cost-Benefit Estimates of the 1996-99 Time Slice of Investment. Net present value and internal rate of
return estimates were made with respect to the 1996-99 investment program of the three Elektroprivredas
and the Federation coal mine companies (Table A4.3). The benefits were taken as the incremental
electricity sales in kWh made possible by the investment program valued at the weighted average
forecast electricity price for the three Elektroprivredas. The incremental sales are estimated to exceed
incremental projected production by 200 GWh per year from 2000 on because of a reduction in
transmission and distribution losses by 200 GWh per year attributable to the project. The electricity
sales revenue measures consumer willingness to pay, provided the billed amounts are actually collected.
While average collections are expected to be slightly less than 100% of the amounts billed, the
improvement in collections agreed under the project would have the result that incremental collected
revenue would be at least as large as the incremental amount billed. No account was taken of
consumer's surplus because of the difficulty of obtaining a reliable estimate for BiH.
The costs include: investments; incremental Federation coal mine operating costs; and other incremental
power operating and maintenance costs. The investments include the proposed project plus other already
committed investments over the period 1996-99 (Table A4.3). This investment program was used
instead of the project cost because it was not possible to separate the benefits of the project from the total
benefits of the program. The operating cost of coal for incremental production of electricity in EPBiH's
coal-fired power plants was valued at US$10.8 per ton, which is the estimated incremental cost of coal
attributable to the investment program. Operating and maintenance costs were estimated using the
average O&M cost of the three Elektroprivredas of US$0.029 per kWh, which was calculated from the
income statements (Annex 5). The O&M costs include the coal operating costs for the Ugljevik and
Gacko power stations. The coal mines for these plants belong to the plants, and expenses on coal
production are not separated from expenses for power production at these plants.



Page 33
The actual exchange rate was taken to be equal to the shadow rate since BiH currency is fixed to the DM.
A shadow wage rate was not used because of uncertainties in its calculation and since it would increase
an already large rate of return. The cost estimates exclude taxes and import duties. The net present
value of the economic and financial estimates are equal, as are the net internal economic and financial
rates of return, since the benefits are valued at forecast electricity prices, duties and taxes on imported
goods under the project would be removed at the request of the beneficiaries, beneficiaries would not be
liable to income tax before 2004, and other taxes are negligible. There are no fiscal subsidies to the
Elektroprivredas.



Page 34
Table A4.1
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Forecast Electricity Demand
(GWh)
| Actual Actual  Actual |              Forecast
1990   1996   1997    1998  | 1999 J 2000  | 2001 | 2002 J 2003
EPBiH:
Sales from Distribution  3,553   1,624   2,087   2,560  3,011    3,406  3,696  3,890  4,004
Zeljezara Zenica          573      65      69     110   220      346   390   410   420
Polihem                   191       9      16     140   140      150   150   150   150
ZBIH                      120       2       4      40    50       80    80    80    80
Azot Gorazde               34       0       0      20    25       30    30    30    30
Zeljezara llijas          165       0       0      20    50       60    60    60    60
Total Direct Consumers    1,083    76      89     330   485      666   710   730   740
Distribution Losses       485    542    732       640   574      509   504   530   546
Losses as % of Dist.       12      25     26       20    16        13    12    12    12
Transmission Losses       182    102    110       120   125      130   140   150   153
Gross Consumption       5,303   2,344   3,018   3,650  4,195   4,711  5,050  5,300  5,443
EPM:
Sales from Distribution           605    668      857   970    1,065  1,157  1,233  1,305
Total Direct Consumers    2,109     0    176   1,203  1,720    2,000  2,000  2,000  2,000
Distribution Losses              280    271       210   170      145   143   137   145
Losses as % of Dist.               32     29       20    18        12    11    10    10
Transmission Losses        56      36      57      58    70       80    83    85    86
Gross Consumption       2,939    921    1172    2328  2930    3290  3383  3455  3536
EPRS:
Sales from Distribution  2,714   1,851   2,159   3,005  3,202    3,404  3,625  3,815  3,875
Total Direct Consumers      0       0       0       0      0        0     0      0      0
Distribution Losses       424    550    493       542   512      477   435   382   384
Losses as % of Dist.        9      23     19       15    14       12    11       9      9
Transmission Losses       115    139    132       160   149       136   122   122   122
Gross Consumption       3,293   2,540   2,784   3,707  3,863    4,017  4,182  4,319  4381
EPBiH+EPM+EPRS
Sales from Distribution  7,989   4,080   4,914   6,422  7,183    7,875  8,478  8,938  9,184
Total Direct Consumers    3,192    76    265   1,533  2,205    2,666  2,710  2,730  2,740
Distribution Losses             1,372   1,496   1,392  1,256    1,131  1,082  1,049  1,075
Transmission Losses       354    277    299       338   344      346   345   357   361
Total Losses                    1,649   1,795   1,730  1,600    1,477  1,427  1,406  1,436
BIH Gross Consum.      11,535   5,805   6,974   9,685 10,988   12,018 12,615 13,074 13,360
Losses/Consumption (%)             28     26       18    15       12    11    11    11
Sources: EPBiH, EPM and EPRS



Page 35
Table A4.2
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Forecast Electricity Balance
(GWh)
Realized                      Forecast
1990    1996    1997 11998 11999 j2000  2001  |2002  J2003
Gross Consumption            11,822   5,805 6,974 9,689 10,988 12,018 12,615 13,074 13,360
Hydro:
Jablanica                       405     758  616  650   670    670   670   670   670
Grabovica                       171     343  261  270   270   270   270   270   270
Salakovac                       245      23  295  410   410    410   410   410   410
Mostar                          156       0   24   192   192    192   192   192   192
Rama                           429      660  624   660   660    660   660   660   660
Capljina                        405     340  177   110   110    110   110   110   110
Jajce 1                         140     204  198  204   204    204   204   204   204
Jajce 2                         110     160  151   151   151    151   151   151   151
Trebinje and Dubrovnik          161    1341 1121  1115  1180   1210  1255  1290  1303
Bocac                           167     280  266  274   280    280   285   285   285
Visegrad                        575    1207  923  1120  1175   1190  1205  1215  1215
Small Hydro                      76     111  103   112   147    148   168   168   168
Total Hydro                    3040    5427 4759  5268  5449   5495  5580  5625  5638
Thermal:
Tuzla Gl                        121     104   70    90    90       90    90
Tuzla G2                        104      43   66    82    82       82    82
Tuzla G3                        419     450  136  320   360    310   360   360   320
Tuzla G4                        953       0    0    0        0      0     0      0      0
Tuzla G5                       1119    129 1192  720   700    850   500   900   850
Tuzla G6                       1119       0    0  700   650    900  1050  1000   600
Kakanj Gl                       156       9   64
Kakanj G2                       162      38    2    80    80       80    80    80       0
Kakanj G3                       125      54   73      0     0       0     0      0      0
Kakanj G4                       142       2    0   80    80       80    80    80        0
Kakanj G5                                    270
Kakanj G6                       517      22  425  400   360    210   180   350   400
Kakanj G7                      1282       0    0    0       0      0      0      0      0
Gacko                          1508     216  772  1020  1115   1180  1215  1240  1260
Ugljevik                       1525     846  936  1050  1150   1225  1290  1365  1380
Total Thermal                  9252    1913 4006 4542  4667   5007  4927  5375  4810
Total Net Production         12,292   7,340 8765 9,810 10,116 10,502 10,507 11,000 10,448
Net Exports(+)Ilmports (-)    1,078   1,535 1,791   121  -872 -1,516 -2,108 -2,074 -2,912
Sources: EPBiH, EPM and EPRS



Page 36
Table A4.3
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
National Power and Coal Investment Program (US$ million)
Actual                      Forecast
1996           1997          1998          1999
EPBiH:
Jablanica                                         0.34             5          4.31
Grabovica                            2.4
Salakovac                            5.7          1.54
Una 1                                                           1.94          1.49
Small Hydro                                        0.2          3.43
Tuzla                               5.87          8.83         10.38         10.41
Kakanj                              2.42         16.65         10.02           3.2
Total Generation                   16.39         27.56         30.77         19.41
Transmission                       16.29         19.24            14          7.71
Distribution                       13.86          9.73         22.86         22.86
EPBiH Total                        46.54         56.53         67.63         49.98
EPM:
Rama                                4.86          2.34          4.06          5.09
Mostar                              0.58         14.86          2.86          1.71
Capljina                            0.57          0.57          1.14           1.14
Jajce 1                             0.29          0.86          4.29          0.57
Jajce 2                                           0.86          0.86           1.14
Total Generation                     6.3          19.49        13.21          9.65
Transmission                        5.01          2.29         18.91         30.29
Distribution                         3.6          6.86          5.71          6.86
EPM Total                          14.91         28.64         37.83          46.8
Fed. Coal Mines:
Emergency Electric
Power Project                                     19.5           5.2
Second Electric
Power Project                                                    6.1           8.2
Total Fed. Coal:                                  19.5          11.3           8.2
EPRS:
Reconstruction
Assistance Project                                 0.8          11.1             4
Second Electric
Power Project                                                   26.7          35.3
Other investments                   13.6            11
EPRS Total                          13.6          11.8          37.8          39.3
Total Investments                  75.05        116.47        154.56        144.281
Sources: EPBiH, EPM and EPRS.
Note: Forecasts for 1998 and 1999 include only amounts committed under existing projects and the
proposed project. The forecasts are in 1997 prices.



Page 37
Table A4.4
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Cost Benefit Analysis (USS million)
_        ~f                  Costs             Total    Benefits  Net
Year Incremental Incr.  Incr.  Average Incr. Fed.  Investment Fed. Coal O&M  Costs    Revenue  Benefits
Production  Losses Sales  Price   Coal Power         Op. Costs
(GWh)    (GWh) (GWh) ($/kWh) (GWh)    ($million) ($million) ($million) ($million) ($million)
1996                                                 75.1        0        0      75.1        0   -75.1
1997      1,966         1,966   0.048      1,203     116.5     14.3    57.0    187.8      94.4  -93.4
1998      3,011         3,011   0.049      1,621     154.6     19.3    87.3    261.2    147.5  -113.6
1999      3,317         3,317   0.057      1,551     144.3     18.4    96.2    258.9    189.1  -69.8
2000      3,703   -200  3,903   0.066      1,751               20.8    107.4    128.2    257.6  129.4
2001      3,708   -200  3,908   0.067      1,571               18.7    107.5    126.2    261.8  135.6
2002      4,201   -200  4,401   0.069      1,919               22.8    121.8    144.6    303.7  159.0
2003      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7   105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2004      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7   105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2005      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7   105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2006      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7   105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2007      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7   105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2008      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7    105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2009      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7    105.8    121.5    269.4  147.9
2010      3,649   -200  3,849    0.07      1,319               15.7   105.81   121.5    269.4  147.9
Present Value =       $361.7   $103.6  $577.0 $1,042.3  $1,322.0  $279.7
Internal Rate of Return =                                           26%
Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity tests were carried out with respect to changes in key parameters. The changes needed to
reduce the rate of return to the opportunity cost of capital, taken to be 12% are: 72% higher investment
cost, or 21% reduction in benefits (equivalent to 21% smaller incremental sales or 21% lower sales price
or collection of only 79% of the incremental amount billed), or an increase by 4 years in the delay
between investments and benefits.
A formal risk analysis was not considered to be necessary or appropriate with respect to the overall
investment program which includes the project. In principle such an analysis could help answer the
question of whether it might be better to reduce or slow down the rehabilitation program. However, the
program itself falls far short of completely restoring the pre-war BiH power system, and the benefits
were found to be so large that major adverse changes in the assumed parameters would be needed to
cause the benefits to be less than the costs. Evaluating the risks would require putting a quantitative
measure on the likelihood of continued political as well as economic development. This measure would
be highly subjective and subject to large variations from one observer to another.
Cost-Benefit Analysis of the Federation Coal Mine Investments
The results of the cost-benefit analysis for the Federation Coal Mine investments are summarized in
Table A4.5.



Page 38
Table A4.5
Summary Results of Economic Analysis of the Federation Coal Mine Investments
Present Value of Flows                 Internal Rate of Return  Switching
(in 1997 US$ million)                                       Value
Net      Reduction   Base      50%
Benefits  Costs   Benefits of          Case      production  %
Subsidies    % IRR    % IRR      Production
RUT
Banovici   10.6      2.2     8.4         0            110         55           6
Dubrave    5.8       1.5     4.3       8.5             75         19          35
Sikulje    12.9      2.5    10.4      15.5            116         58          20
Mramor      1.3      0.8     0.5        8.7            15          15        n.a.
Total      30.6      7.0    23.6      32.7             92         43          15
RUSB
Vrtliste    15.6     5.0    10.6       8.1             70         21          30
Breza       5.0      2.0     3.0         0             55         < 0         55
Total      20.6      7.0    13.6       8.1             66         15          35
Main Assumptions
Table A4.5 shows the summary results of detailed cash flow calculations for the years 1998 to 2002'.
Actual cost data for the first half of 1997 were extrapolated. For each mine, the operating costs with and
without the project were then projected, broken down into major cost categories. Without the project, the
output would increase in 1998, and also partly in 1999, as a result of the investments made under the
Emergency Electric Power Reconstruction Project. Thereafter, production without the project is
assumed to be stable, except for the Mramor underground mine, where a decline of production has been
assumed due to increasing safety hazards in the absence of further investments. To project the operating
cost, each cost category was broken down into a fixed and variable part, depending on the type of mine,
and based on international experience. The production increase with the project was estimated based on
the type of mine and the investment proposed, resulting in an average increase of about 30%. By
estimating production increases and related expenses, varying rates of overburden removal as required by
mine development status and geological conditions were taken into account. All costs were calculated in
present (1997) prices. They are assumed to reflect economic costs. Taxes were not considered.
Personnel costs were assumed to be proportional to the amount of overburden and coal mined. The value
of the coal mined and delivered to the power stations has been assumed to be 4 DM/GJ (or 2.2 $/GJ),
equivalent to the estimated cost of delivering imported coal to the Federation's power plants.
Although actual operating costs have been used as an input, a financial analysis of the two coal mining
enterprises in the Federation has not been undertaken. All data shown in Table A4.5 are economic data.
Costs exceeding 4 DM/GJ have been assumed to be equivalent to a subsidy. Such subsidies are presently
not being paid by the Government to the mining companies, but indirectly (e.g., through inefficient
barter, debt increase and other inefficiencies) they are a charge on the economy and need to be gradually
eliminated in the future.
I A printout of the spreadsheets with the detailed calculations is available in the project files.



Page 39
Summary of Benefits and Costs
RUT. The total incremental benefits of the coal mine component of the project are equal to the
incremental production valued at the coal import price of 4 DM/GJ less the incremental operating cost.
They amount to US$ 30.6 million. The highest benefits occur in the Sikulje surface mine, the lowest in
the Mramor underground mine. The total costs (the project capital cost) amount to US$7.0 million. The
net benefit is US$23.6 million, equivalent to a high economic rate of return of 92%. While the three
surface mines have a high rate of return (75-116%), the underground mine has a relatively marginal
return of 15%.
RUSB. The total benefits amount to US$20.6 million, of which US$15.6 million generated by the Vrtliste
surface mine and US$5.0 million by the Breza underground mine. The total costs amount to US$7.0
million. The net benefit is US$13.6 million. Both mines have a high rate of return (Vrtliste at 70% and
Breza at 55%).
Sensitivity Analysis and Switching Values
The increase in production is the single most important factor in achieving the projected economic
results. The sensitivity analysis shows that the economic rate of return is fairly robust against a lower
than projected production increase. Even with a 50% reduction of the incremental production, the rate of
return is acceptable for all mines except Breza. The switching value, i.e., the production level under
which the rate of return would turn from positive to negative, is 55% of the projected level in the case of
the Breza mine. This is equivalent to an increase of less than 20%, or 60,000 tons per year, over the
projected production level in the without project case. The risk of not achieving this minimum increase at
Breza is small. The other mines have switching values ranging from 6% to 35% of the projected
incremental production, significantly lower than Breza, and therefore carry a low risk.
Economic Viability of the Federation Coal Mines
While the incremental operating costs at the Federation mines that would benefit from the project are
estimated to be well below the price of imported coal of US$2.2 per GJ, the average after project
operating costs at Mramor are above the import price (Table A4.6). The average operating cost at
Mramor during the period 1998-2002 is projected to be US$3.1/GJ, compared to the estimated import
price of US$2.2/GJ. This suggests that, despite the satisfactory internal rate of return shown in Table
A4.6 for new investments in this mine, it might be better to close the mine and import coal. However, a
social plan for closure of the Mramor mine is not ready and the investments under this project are needed
for safety reasons. In addition, since there is a surplus of coal miners in BiH and unemployment in the
country is still substantial, the economic cost of labor (shadow wage rate) is probably well below the
actual wage rate. If, as seems likely, the shadow wage rate is less than 46% of the actual wage rate, the
average total cost of Mramor coal (including the US$0.8 million project investment) would be less than
the price of imported coal . While other RUT mines have a lower average cost than Mramor, the mine is
needed to secure the coal quality required for the 32-MW units at Tuzla that would be rehabilitated under
the project. A further consideration is that the import alternative would take time to implement and
would probably only be viable on a long term basis, since the amount of coal needed to replace Mramor
would be large - 360,000 tons per year. This option would require substantial investments in transport
infrastructure.



Page 40
Table A4.6
Estimated Coal Operating Costs in 2000
Incremental              Average "With Project"
Operating Cost                Operating Cost
(US$/GJ)                     (US$/GJ)
RUT
Banovici                                   1.0                           1.7
Dubrave                                    0.9                           2.1
Sikulje                                    0.8                           2.2
Mramor                                     2.1                           3.3
Subtotal                                   1.1                           2.1
RUSB
Vrtliste                                   0.4                           1.8
Breza                                      1.4                           1.7
Subtotal                                   0.8                           1.8
Total                                      0.9                           2.0
Economic Viability of the Coal-Fired Power Plants
The economic viability of the coal-fired power plants that would benefit from the project can be
evaluated by examining: (i) their priority relative to other rehabilitation candidates; and (ii) whether the
cost of electricity from the rehabilitated plants would be less than the cost of electricity from new power
generation plants. The main generating units that would benefit from the project are: the 32 MW units at
Tuzla and Kakanj, and the Gacko and Ugljevik coal power stations.
The order of rehabilitation of the various units at Tuzla and Kakanj has been evaluated by Verbundplan,
"Long Term Rehabilitation Study - TPP - Tuzla", and "TPP - Kakanj" (November, 1997, in the Project
File). These studies take as given that the 32 MW units will be rehabilitated early, because of their
importance for meeting existing demands for district heat (Tuzla and Kakanj) and industrial steam
(Tuzla). The economic justification for giving priority to Gacko and Ugljevik is that the cost of
electricity from the rehabilitated units would be no greater than the costs at Tuzla and Kakanj (Bechtel
Consulting, "Coal and Thermal Power Cost Study for Bosnia and Herzegovina" (August 1997, page 7.7,
in the Project File).
In order to verify whether the coal-fired plants that would benefit from the project would be competitive
with electricity from a new power station, the costs of production of electricity at Gacko, Ugljevik, Tuzla
Gland G2, and Kakanj G2 and G4 were compared with the costs of a new combined-cycle gas-fired 120
MW power plant. (This comparison is not really needed for the justification of the Tuzla and Kakanj 32
MW units since their rehabilitation is required in order to ensure continuity in supply of district heat and
industrial steam to existing consumers over the next few years before a new power station could be
brought into operation or before altemative heat sources could be established. The 32 MW units are
expected to be retired by 2002). The estimates for the comparison are based partly on data presented in
Bechtel Consulting, "Coal and Thermal Power Cost Study for Bosnia and Herzegovina" (August 1997)
(in Project Files). On the basis of comparison with selected new power generation options, Bechtel
concluded that a combined-cycle plant would be the lowest-cost new option. The gas could be supplied
through the existing pipeline which brings gas from Russia to BiH. For purposes of the analysis here,
adjustments were made to the Bechtel estimates. First, a gas import price of US$134 per thousand cubic
meters was selected based on 1998 contracts for gas imports into BiH (assuming current estimated
penalties for reduced gas purchases during the summer). Second, the investment cost assumed for the



Page 41
reference combined-cycle plant was US$600/kW, and the heat rate was taken as 8,200 kj per kWh.
These figures are both below Bechtel's estimates. Third, the project investments were used in place of
Bechtel's investment estimates. These are: Gacko (US$5.96 million), Ugljevik (US$4.12 million), Tuzla
GI and G2 (US$6.6 million), and Kakanj G2 and G4 (US$5 million). Fourth, Bank estimates of average
operating costs (Table A4.6) plus project investments in the Federation coal mines were used in place of
the average cost estimates used by Bechtel. Average costs (excluding fixed costs such as debt service
that would continue even if plant operation stops) were used instead of incremental costs since, unless
the benefits of the power plants cover the average costs, it would pay to close the plants rather than to
invest in keeping them open. Fifth, the benefits of industrial steam produced by Tuzla GI and G2 were
subtracted from the costs.' No account was taken of the benefits of any district heat that could be
produced by these units since it was assumed that all district heat requirements would be met from the
100 MW units. However, one reason for rehabilitating these units is to ensure continuity of heat supply
to existing consumers in case of unavailability of the 100 MW units. The combined cycle power plant
could also be designed to supply heat and steam, but if the 32 MW coal-fired units were to break down
before the gas-fired plant entered service, there would be an interruption of heat and steam supply.
The results (Table A4.7) show that the investment plus operating cost per kWh for Gacko, Ugljevik,
Tuzla GI and G2, and Kakanj G2 and G4 would be less than the cost of electricity from the combined-
cycle option.
Table A4.7
Comparison of Costs of Gas- and Selected Coal-Fired Power Plants
(UScents/kWh)
Fuel    Variable O&M    Fixed O&M    Investment  Indust. steam   Total
benefit
Combined-Cycle              3.4          0.33           0.06          1.06                    4.85
Gacko                       3.0          0.57           0.39         0.07                     4.03
Ugljevik                    3.37         0.54           0.37         0.05                     4.33
Tuzla G1&2                  3.30         0.54           0.57         0.83          -3.0       2.24
Kakanj G2&4                 3.02         0.54           0.57         0.68                     4.81
These comparisons do not take full account of environmental considerations. The rehabilitated coal-fired
plants would produce more pollution than a gas-fired plant in the absence of pollution control
expenditures. The investment cost for Gacko under the project consists mainly of environmental control
expenditures designed to limit pollution to acceptable levels. However, the project does not include
pollution control investments at Ugljevik. The main requirement would be flue gas desulfurization
equipment costing about US$29 million. Inclusion of this investment would increase the average cost of
electricity from Ugljevik by 0.3 cents/kWh to 4.64 US cents per kWh. This is below the cost of
electricity from a combined-cycle gas-fired power station.
'According to EPBiH, Tuzla GI and G2 would supply 60% of industrial steam sales, which are projected to
increase from $7.5 million in 1998 to US$10 million in 2001.



Page 42
Annex 5
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Financial Summary for Revenue Earning Project Entities
Project Financing Plan
(US$ million)
Source                         1998              1999               2000              Total
IDA                             1.2               18.7               5.1              25.0.
Cofinanciers                   44.7               56.0              11.2              111.9
Local                          11.0               17.9               4.0               32.9
of which:
EPBiH                        3.2                5.2                1.2               9.6
EPM                          1.5               2.5                0.6                4.6
EPRS                         6.3               10.2               2.2               18.7
Total Financing               56.9              92.6               20.3             169.8



Page 43
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BiH
Income Statements
(US$ million)
1995  1996  1997   1998    1999    2000   2001  2002  2003
REVENUES
from electricity sales
domestic                   62.7  89.6  117.4   202.0   299.6   386.4  418.1 438.4  450.1
exports                      0    9.3  31.7    28.0    30.0    33.2   47.4  47.4  47.4
other revenues               12.6  14.8  24.4    32.1    40.6    49.3   56.5  60.2  64.2
total revenues             75.3  113.7  173.5   262.1   370.2   468.9  522.0 546.0  561.7
EXPENSES
coal                         29.4  46.7  83.0   110.8   132.2   149.3  165.5 167.3  164.6
other fuels                   1.2   1.3   1.4       1.5     1.6     1.7    1.9  2.1   2.3
spares and maintenance        8.9  10.5  11.6    13.0    14.6    16.3   18.3  20.5  23.0
materials
other materials               7.3  10.1  14.8    17.9    19.9    24.9   29.9  30.9  31.5
wages and salaries            5.6  17.6  33.6    44.5    49.0    54.1   58.3  68.6  70.2
other business expenses       7.4   8.5  13.3    14.6    16.1    17.7   19.5  21.5  23.6
taxes and compulsory          0.5   0.7   4.0       4.5     4.8     5.4    5.9  6.5   7.1
contributions
cash operating expenses    60.3  95.4  161.7   206.8   238.2   269.4  299.3 317.4  322.3
interest and financial charges  0.1   0.2  10.9    11.0    10.8    10.1    9.4  8.4   7.3
cash expenses including     60.4  95.6  172.6   217.8   249.0   279.5  308.7 325.8  329.6
interest
depreciation                 58.8  127.1  121.2   138.5   142.4   158.5  176.7 183.0  192.0
total operating expenses   119.2  222.7  293.8   356.3   391.4   438.0  485.4 508.8  521.6
losses on receivables        31.3  39.6  29.8    34.5    16.5    21.0   23.3  24.3  24.9
total expenses            150.5  262.3  323.6   390.8   407.9   459.0  508.7 533.1  546.5
NET INCOME (PROFIT/LOSS)   -75.2 -148.5 -150.1  -128.9   -37.7      9.8   13.4  13.0  15.2
RATIOS
operating ratio               2.7   3.0   2.0       1.6     1.1     1.0    1.0  1.0   1.0
cash operating ratio          1.4   1.3   1.1       0.9     0.7     0.6    0.6  0.6   0.6
collection ratio (as % of billings)   0.50   0.60   0.80  0.85    0.95    0.95    0.95  0.95   0.95
revenue collection/cash oper.  73    78    89      110      148     166    167  164   167
exp.(%)



Page 44
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BiH
Balance Sheets
(US$ million)
1995   1996   1997   1998  1999   2000  2001   2002  2003
ASSETS
cash and securities         0.2    0.4    1.7    2.5   9.5   22.0  78.2  114.1  145.4
accounts receivable        66.2   64.0   86.8  104.8  129.6  140.7  130.5  109.2  112.4
inventories                16.0   20.6   24.9   29.9  33.0   29.9  28.1   26.8  24.7
other current assets       29.0   30.4   33.5   35.1   36.9   38.7  40.7  42.7  44.8
total current assets    111.4  115.4  146.9  172.3  209.0  231.3  277.5  292.8  327.3
gross fixed assets       5083.2  5344.4 5403.6  5472.9 5528.3 5586.9 5686.9 5811.9 5936.9
less: accumulated        2923.8  3249.5 3370.7  3509.2 3651.6 3810.1 3986.8 4169.8 4361.8
depreciation
net fixed assets       2159.4  2094.9 2032.9  1963.7 1876.7 1776.8 1700.1 1642.1 1575.1
other long term assets    313.4  313.4  288.7  239.9  239.9  239.9  239.9  239.9  239.9
total assets           2584.2  2523.8 2468.4  2376.0 2325.7 2248.0 2217.5 2174.8 2142.3
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
accounts payable           70.0   71.7  112.2  108.9  87.1   83.9  77.1   65.1  65.9
other current liabilities  70.4   70.4   63.1   55.3  52.5   25.0  15.0  10.0   0.0
short term loans           17.9   47.0   43.1   38.8  36.9    0.0   0.0   0.0   0.0
total current liabilities  158.3  189.1  218.4  203.0  176.5  108.9  92.1   75.1  65.9
medium and long term loans   229.2  286.5  352.0  403.8  417.6  397.8  370.6  331.9  293.2
founders' equity         2230.7  2230.7 2230.7  2230.7 2230.7 2230.7 2230.7 2230.7 2230.7
statutory and other reserves  7.8    7.8    7.8    7.8   7.8    7.8   7.8   7.8   7.8
retained earnings         -41.9  -190.4  -340.5  -469.3 -507.0  -497.2 -483.7 -470.8 -455.3
total equity           2196.6  2048.1  1898.0  1769.2 1731.5 1741.3 1754.8 1767.7 1783.2
total liabilities and equity  2584.1  2523.7 2468.4  2376.0 2325.7 2248.0 2217.5 2174.8 2142.3
RATIOS
current ratio               0.7    0.6    0.7    0.8   1.2    2.1   3.0   3.9   5.0
debt:equity ratio          9:91   12:88  16:84  19:81  20:80  19:81  18:82  17:83  15:85



Page 45
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BiH
Sources and Applications of Funds
(US$ million)
1998    1999    2000     2001     2002        Total
SOURCES
net income                    -128.9   -37.7     9.8     13.4      13.0     -130.3
depreciation                   138.5   142.4   158.5    176.7    183.0       799.1
internal generation           9.6   104.7   168.3    190.2    196.0        668.8
IDA                            10.5      8.1     2.4      0.0      0.0        21.0
other foreign loans            54.9    32.9      5.0      0.0      0.0        92.8
total sources                 75.0   145.7   175.7    190.2    196.0        782.6
APPLICATIONS
capital expenditures
Emergency Power Project      45.0      8.0     0.0      0.0      0.0        53.0
Second Power Project         23.6    38.2      8.6      0.0      0.0        70.4
other investments             0.7      9.2    50.0    100.0    125.0       284.9
repayment of loans              13.6    27.2    27.2     27.2     38.7       133.9
changes in working capital     -7.9    63.2    89.9      63.0     32.3       240.4
and cash balances
total applications            75.0   145.8   175.7    190.2    196.0        782.6
RATIOS
debt service coverage           1.0      2.3     3.5      6.0      5.2         3.7



Page 46
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA MOSTAR
Income Statements
(US$ million)
1996  1997  1998    1999  2000  2001    2002   2003
REVENUES
from electricity sales
domestic                       44.4  45.0  53.6    61.9  73.4  80.2   84.0   89.4
other revenues                    14.4  14.1   6.4      4.7   2.6   5.8    8.7   12.2
total revenues                  58.8  59.1  60.0    66.5  76.1  86.0   92.7  101.6
EXPENSES
fuels                             0.4   0.5   0.4       0.5   0.5   0.5    0.5    0.5
spares and maintenance materials  1.0   7.5   7.3      7.6   7.8   8.1      8.5    9.0
other materials                   3.4   3.5   3.5       3.7   3.8   4.1    4.4    4.7
purchased services                2.3   4.5   4.5      4.7   4.9   5.2    5.5    5.8
wages and salaries                11.2  12.2  12.3    12.8  13.4  14.1    14.8   15.5
other business expenses           0.3   0.7   0.6      0.7   0.7   0.9    0.9    1.0
taxes and compulsory contributions  1.0   3.2   3.3     3.4   3.5   3.8    4.0    4.1
cash operating expenses         19.6  32.1  31.9    33.2  34.6  36.7   38.6   40.6
interest and financial charges    2.1   2.2   2.3      2.4   2.4   2.3    2.2    2.2
cash expenses including interest   21.7  34.3  34.2    35.7  37.0  39.0   40.8   42.8
depreciation                     18.5  19.6  21.3    22.8  27.6  28.6   33.4   34.5
total operating expenses        40.2  53.8  55.5    58.5  64.7  67.6   74.2   77.3
losses on receivables            20.6  17.7  12.0    10.0  11.4   8.6    9.3    5.1
total expenses                  60.8  71.6  67.5    68.4  76.1  76.2    83.5   82.4
NET INCOME (PROFITILOSS)          -2.0  -12.5  -7.5    -1.9   0.0   9.8    9.2   19.3
RATIOS
operating ratio                   1.1   1.3   1.2       1.0   1.0   0.9    0.9    0.8
cash operating ratio              0.5   0.8   0.7      0.6   0.5   0.5    0.5    0.4
collection ratio (as % of billings)  65    70    80     85    85    90      90      95
revenue collection/cash oper. exp.  195   129   150    170   187   211     216    238
(%)



Page 47
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA MOSTAR
Balance Sheets
(US$ million)
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001  2002  2003
ASSETS
cash and securities             3.2    1.9    2.5    2.9    3.4   15.9  30.9  56.5
accounts receivable            13.2   16.2   16.2   17.3   18.3   18.9  18.5  18.3
inventories                     3.5    4.1    4.1    3.9    4.1    3.9   4.1   4.3
other current assets            7.8    5.3    5.5    5.6    5.8    6.0   6.1   6.3
total current assets         27.7   27.5   28.3   29.7   31.5   44.7  59.7  85.4
gross fixed assets            736.0  752.4  790.3  837.8  867.0  892.0  917.0  942.7
less: accumulated depreciation  367.0  386.6  407.9  430.7  458.3  487.0  520.4  554.9
net fixed assets            369.0  365.8  382.4  407.2  408.7  405.1  396.7  387.8
other long term assets          1.2    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8    0.8   0.8   0.8
total assets                 397.9  394.1   411.5  437.7  441.0  450.6  457.1  474.0
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
accounts payable                6.5    8.7    8.6    7.8    7.4    7.0   7.3   7.3
othercurrentliabilities         9.6   10.8   16.6   16.7   16.9   17.1  17.2  17.5
short term loans
total current liabilities    16.1   19.5   25.2   24.5   24.3   24.1  24.5  24.8
medium and long term loans     30.7   30.7   49.9   78.6   82.2   82.2  79.1  76.5
founders' equity              141.0  146.3  146.3  146.3  146.3  146.3  146.3  146.3
revaluation surplus           209.7  209.7  209.7  209.7  209.7  209.7  209.7  209.7
retained earnings               0.4  -12.1   -19.6  -21.5  -21.5  -11.8  -2.6  16.7
total equity                351.1  343.9  336.4  334.5  334.5  344.2  353.4  372.7
total liabilities and equity  397.9  394.1   411.5  437.7  441.0  450.6  457.1  474.0
RATIOS
current ratio                   1.7    1.4    1.1    1.2    1.3    1.9   2.4   3.4
debt:equity ratio              8:82   8:82   13:87   19:81  20:80  19:81  18:82  17:83



Page 48
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA MOSTAR
Sources and Applications of Funds
(US$ million)
1998     1999    2000    2001    2002    Total
SOURCES
net income                      -7.5     -1.9     0.0     9.8     9.2      9.6
depreciation                   21.3     22.8    27.6    28.6    33.4    133.8
intemal generation           13.8     20.9    27.6    38.4    42.6    143.3
IDA                             0.3      4.3      1.1     0.0     0.0      5.7
other foreign loans            18.9     24.4    2.54      0.0     0.0     45.8
total sources                 33.0     49.6    31.2    38.4    42.6    194.9
APPLICATIONS
capital expenditures
Second Power Project         11.7     19.2     4.2      0.0     0.0     35.1
other investments            26.2     28.3    25.0    25.0    25.0    129.5
repayment of loans              0.0      0.0      0.0     0.0     3.1      3.1
changes in working capital     -4.9      2.1      2.0    13.4    14.5    27.1
and cash balances
total applications            33.0     49.6    31.2    38.4    42.6    194.8
RATIOS
debt service coverage           7.0      9.0    11.8    13.0      6.7      9.0



Page 49
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Income Statements
(US$ million)
1996  1997   1998  1999  2000  2001   2002  2003
REVENUES
from electricity sales
domestic                  55.0  81.2  141.5  156.3  190.0  220.0  230.0 245.0
exports                   31.2  34.8   54.5  71.5  71.5  75.0  80.0  80.0
other revenues               7.8  12.3   15.6  17.5  19.5  20.5  22.0  23.0
total revenues            94.0  128.3  211.6  245.3  281.0  315.5  332.0 348.0
EXPENSES
fuels                        7.4  12.4   20.3  24.5  28.0  30.1   32.4  34.8
spares and maintenance      12.4  31.5   42.8  48.5  52.1   56.0  60.3  64.8
materials
other materials              7.8  28.2   30.0  31.5  33.1   34.7  36.5  38.3
wages and salaries           5.7  11.9   25.0  26.3  27.6  28.9  30.4  31.9
purchased services           6.0  12.3   15.4  16.2  17.0  17.8   18.7  19.7
other business expenses      5.6   7.0   12.0  12.6  13.2  13.9  14.6  15.3
taxes and compulsory         3.5   6.9   10.4  10.7  10.9   11.2  11.5  11.8
contributions
cash operating expenses    48.4  110.2  155.9  170.2  181.9  192.7  204.2 216.5
interest and financial charges  5.1  10.2   10.3  10.4  10.5  10.6   9.9   8.7
cash expenses including   53.5  120.4  166.2  180.6  192.5  203.3  214.2 225.2
interest
depreciation               108.6  109.6  110.0  111.1  112.0  112.1  113.1  115.1
total operating expenses    162.1  230.0  276.2  291.7  304.4  315.4  327.3 340.3
losses on receivables       45.5  42.8   40.2  29.5  26.3   17.2  15.0  13.0
total expenses           207.5  272.8  316.3  321.2  330.7  332.6  342.3 353.3
NET INCOME                -113.5 -144.5  -104.7  -75.9  -49.7  -17.1  -10.3  -5.3
(PROFITILOSS)
RATIOS
operating ratio              3.3   2.7    1.6   1.4   1.2   1.1    1.0   1.0
cash operating ratio         1.0   1.3    0.9   0.8   0.7   0.6   0.6   0.6
collection ratio (% of billings)  52    67  81    88    91    95    95    96
revenue collection/cash. oper.   100    78    110   127   140   155   155   155
exp. (%)



Page 50
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Balance Sheets
(US$ million)
1996  1997  1998  1999  2000   2001  2002  2003
ASSETS
cash and securities            1.5   5.7   9.5  16.3  24.7   37.6  23.4  44.2
accounts receivable           23.8  27.9  30.9  41.0  47.1   50.2  52.7  55.3
inventories                   63.8  82.0  105.8  110.4  112.4  110.4  116.2  121.8
other current assets          83.8  106.5  115.2  95.0  90.0   85.0  80.0  80.0
total current assets        172.9  222.1  261.4  262.6  274.2  283.2  272.3  301.3
gross fixed assets          3404.0 3649.5 3682.2 3721.3 3728.9 3728.9 3778.9 3828.9
less: accumulated depreciation   1867.3 1969.0 2079.0 2190.1 2302.1  2414.2 2527.4 2642.5
netfixed assets            1536.7 1680.5 1603.2 1531.2 1426.8  1314.7 1251.5 1186.4
other long term assets        39.6  40.7  40.7  40.7  40.7   40.7  40.7  40.7
total assets               1749.2 1943.3 1905.3 1834.5 1741.7  1638.6 1564.6 1528.4
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
accounts payable              20.4  52.5  91.4  81.3  67.4   61.0  53.5  45.0
other current liabilities     93.5  153.5  157.1  150.0  124.6   45.0  18.0  22.6
short term loans              13.7  14.8  12.6   9.2   0.0    0.0   0.0   0.0
current portion of long-term debt
total current liabilities   127.6  220.8  261.1  240.5  192.0  106.0  71.5  67.6
medium and long term loans   164.0  167.1  193.5  219.3  224.7  224.7  195.4  168.6
founders' equity            1505.1 1747.4 1747.4 1747.4 1747.4  1747.4 1747.4 1747.4
revaluation and other reserves  82.0  82.0  82.0  82.0  82.0   82.0  82.0  82.0
retained earnings            -129.5 -274.0 -378.7 -454.7 -504.4  -521.5 -531.8 -537.2
total equity               1457.6 1555.4 1450.7 1374.7 1325.0  1307.9 1297.6 1292.2
total liabilities and equity  1749.2 1943.3 1905.3 1834.5 1741.7  1638.6 1564.5 1528.4
RATIOS
current ratio                  1.4   1.0   1.0   1.1   1.4    2.7   3.8   4.5
debt:equity ratio            10:90  10:90  12:88  14:86  14:86  15:85  13:87  12:88



Page 51
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Sources and Applications of Funds
(US$ million)
1998   1999   2000   2001   2002       Total
SOURCES
net incorne                       -104.7  -75.9  -49.7  -17.1  -10.3   -257.9
depreciation                       110.0  111.1  112.0  112.1  113.1    558.4
internal generation                5.3   35.2   62.2   95.0  102.8    300.5
IDA                                  3.5    7.1    1.7    0.0    0.0        12.3
other foreign loans                 22.9   18.7    3.7    0.0    0.0        45.3
total sources                      31.7   61.0   67.6   95.0  102.8    358.1
APPLICATIONS
capital expenditures
Reconstruction Assistance Project  11.1    4.0    0.0    0.0    0.0      15.1
Second Power Project              21.6   35.1    7.6    0.0    0.0        64.3
other investments                  0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   50.0        50.0
repayment of loans                   0.0    0.0    0.0    0.0   29.3        29.3
changes in working capital          -1.0   21.9   60.1   95.0   23.6    199.5
and cash balances
total applications                 31.7   61.0   67.7   95.0  102.9    358.1
RATIOS
debt service coverage                2.0    2.0    1.5    1.5    1.5         1.6



Page 52
Annex 6
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    All procurement of equipment and materials financed by IDA will be in accordance with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (published in January 1995 and
revised in January and August 1996, and September 1997). Contracts estimated to cost more than
US$300,000 each would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). For some
specialized equipment, and equipment due to retrofitting nature, which can only be purchased from a
limited number of suppliers, estimated to cost between US$300,000 and up to US$1 million each, Limited
International Bidding (LIB) will be used. The aggregate value of ICB is about US$20.01 million (or 80
percent of the total credit), and the aggregate value for LIB is about US$2.85 million (or 11 percent of the
credit). Bank Standard Bidding Documents for procurement of goods will be used. International Shopping
(IS) will be used for procuring readily available off-the-shelf goods or standard specification commodities,
estimatedto cost between US$50,000 and US$300,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of US$1.35
million (or 5 percent of the total credit). IS shall solicit quotations from at least three suppliers in two
different countries. Goods, i.e., basic office equipment, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$0.15 million equivalent, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of National Shopping (NS) procedures in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines.
2.    All three Elektroprivredas have qualified staff to carry out most of the engineering work and the
preparation of specifications. From the experience gained in the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the
Elektroprivredas, assisted by the Norwegian Power Expert Group (for EPBiH) and Canadian Power Expert
Group (for EPRS and EPM), are expected to be able to carry out procurement efficiently.
3.    All procurement of equipment and materials financed by the UK and Canada will be undertaken
through Crown Agents; and a Japanese Trading House will undertake procurement of goods and materials
financed by Japanese funds. Procurement of goods and services financed by other donors would follow
procedures set out by each donor's governmentrespectively.
4.     The site preparation, civil works construction and installation of auxiliary electro-mechanical
equipment are well within the capability of the local contractors and manufacturers. These will be financed
by the Elektroprivredasand procured following local competitivebidding procedures. Installation of major
equipment will be supervised by the manufacturers (suppliers). The Project Costs by Procurement
Arrangements are summmarized in Table A. The Procurement Plan and Implementation Schedule are
presented in Table A. 1. Thresholds for ProcurementMethods and Prior Review are shown in Table B.
Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds
1.    Table C shows the allocation of loan proceeds. The estimated annual disbursement schedule by
IDA fiscal year is shown in the Project Financing Data on page 1. The Credit is expected to be disbursed
over a period of about two years. The project completion date would be December 31, 1999, and the
closing date would be June 30, 2000.



- Page 53
Use of statements of expenses (SOEs):
For goods worth less than US$300,000 disbursements would be made on the basis of statements
of expenditures. Documentation supporting such expenditures would be retained in EPBiH's, EPM's,
and EPRS's offices and made available for review by IDA supervision missions.
Special account
1.    To facilitate timely project implementation, two Special Accounts (one each for the Federation and
EPRS) will be established in a commercial bank, acceptable to the Bank. The authorized allocation will be
limited to DEMI.30 million for the Federation, and DEMO.45 million for EPRS, representing about four
months (average) of IDA's share of estimated expenditures expected to be paid from the Special Accounts.
Replenishment applications would be forwarded to IDA with reconciled bank statements and other
appropriate documentation.
2.    Separate and auditable accounts would be established by EPBiH, EPM, and EPRS. These accounts
would include: (i) a record of withdrawals on the IDA credit with copies of all disbursement requests and
underlying documentation; and (ii) a record of transactions on the special Accounts and the copies of the
bank statements on this account.



Page 54
Annex 6, Table A
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category          Procurement Method                       |
_________________   ICB    Other /a   N.B.F /b       Total
1. Works                                       28.09         28.09
2. Goods                  20.30       4.35     109.46        134.11
(20.30)    (4.35)                  (24.65)
3. Services                                     7.19           7.19
4. Operating Cost                     0.35                     0.35
(0.35)                   (0.35)
Total                  20.30       4.70     144.74        169.74
_____________________ |(20.30)    (4.70)        (0.00)       (25.00)/c
Note:
/a Includes:
(1) Limited International Competitive Bidding (aggregate amount US$2.85) million).
(2) International Shopping (aggregate amount US$1.35 million).
(3) National Shopping (aggregate amount US$0.15 million).
(4) Operating Costs (for Project Implementation Support - Aggregate amount US$0.35 million).
/b NBF = Not Bank-financed.
/c Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit.



Page 55
Annex 6, Table Al
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Procurement Plan and Implementation Schedule
Major Procuremnt Activtn           Date of InstaatlonVRehablltalon
Project                  Es0mated  Financed   Procuremnt  Submiion  Award/Signing  Completonof  Commencement  Completon
Coat       by         Method        of Bids     of Contract    Detiverte
miL US$
I. POWER SECTOR
EPBIH
Tuzia Themial Plant
EPBIH    G-01  Cooling Tower                  3.00       IDA          ICB          06198         09198         04/99            11/98          06199
EPBiH    G-02 Coal Handling System            0.59       IDA          ICB          06i98         og09(         05/99            12/98          08199
EPBiH   G-03  Waler Treatment Plant           1.20       IDA          ICB          06/98         09198         03/99            11198          06/99
EPBiH    G-04  l&C and Automation              1.86       IDA         ICB          06/98         09198         06/99            11/98          09/99
EPBIH    G-05 6 kV Plant                       1.49      IDA          ICB          06/98         09198         03/99            12/98          00199
EPBiH    G46  Spare Parts 2x32 MW Units       3.00       IDA          [CB          06/98         09/98         02199              --
EPBiH   G-07  Plant Mechanical Equipment       1.42       UK     Donor's method    09/97         11/97         03/98            12197          05/98
EPBIH   G-08  Electrical equipment, measuring  0.65       UK     Donoes method     09/97         11/97         03/98            12197          05198
and control
EPBiH   G-09  Balance of plant                0.93        UK     Donoes method    09/97          11/97         03/98            12/97          06/98
EPBiH   G-10 Works                            1.16      EPBiH                                                                   12/97          06199
Kakanj Thenral Plant
EPBiH    G-11  Control and monitoring equipment   2.88  OECF    Donor's method     07/98         1/98          05/99            03/99          09199
EPBiH    G-12 Water Treatment Plant           0.85      OECF    Donor's method     06/98         09/98         02/99            01/99          07/99
EPBiH    G-13 Air Heaters                     2.28      OECF    Donor's method     06/98         09/98         05/99            05/99          11/99
EPSiH   G-14 Spare Parts for 2x32 MW Units    2.51      OECF    Donor's method     06/98         09199         05/99
EPBiH    G-15 Works                           0.93      EPBiH                                                                   01/99          11/99
Transmisston
EPBiH    T-01  Equipment for 220/110 kV       3.56   Japan/DFID  Donoes method     09/97         11/97         10/98            03/98          11/98
Gradacac substation
EPBiH    T-02 Works                           0A7       EPBiH                                                                   03/98          11/98
Dlstribution
EPBiH    D-01  Distribution Substatons and MV  9.64     USAID    Donor's method    07/97         10/97         12/97            01/98          12/98
and LV cables
EPBiH    D-02  Distributon Substation 35/20(10)    0.88   NL     Donor's method    05/97         07/97         12/97            12/97          05/98
kV and 10-20 kV
EPBiH    D-03  MV and LV Power Cables         0.22        NL     Donor's method    05/97         07/97         10/97            10/97          06/98
EPBiH    D-04  MV and LV Overhead Lines       4.60       EU      Donor's method    12/97         01/98         06/98            07/98          12198
EPBiH    D-05 Works                           4.04      EPBiH                                                                   10/97          12/98
Office equipment
EPBiH   O-01  Office equipment                0.05       IDA          NS           06/98
EPM
Rama Hydro Plant
EPM      G-01  220 kV Metal-dad Substaton vith   4.20    IDA          ICB          06/98         09/98         04/99            04/99          07/99
2 generator bays, 2 line bays, I
transfomwer bay, coupling busbar
and measuring bay.
EPM      G-02  Works                          0.74       EPM                                                                    04/99          07/99
JaJce I Hydro Plant
EPM      G-03  110kVSF6Circut Breakers (a)    0.60       IDA          LIB          06/98         09/98         03/99            03/99          06/99
EPM      G-04 Line and bus bar disconnectors  OAO        IDA          LIB          06/98         09/98         03/99            03/99          06/99
(24)
EPM      G-05 Works                           0.21       EPM                                                                    03/99          06/99
CapVmna Hydro Plant
EPM      G-06  Compress air facilities        0.30       IDA          LIB          06/98         09198         05/99            06/99          08/99
EPM      G-07 Works                           0.12       EPM                                                                    06S99          08/9



Page 56
Transmission
110 kV Stolac-Mostar 2 TL
EPM      T-01  Conductor and ground wire      0.22       IDA           IS          06/98         08198         01/99            12/98          03/99
EPM      T-02  Insulators and accessories     0.23       IDA           IS          06/98         08/98         01/99            12/98          03/99
EPM      T-03  Steel structure                0.09       IDA          NCB          08/98         08/98         12/98            10/98          01/99
EPM     T-04  Works                           0.21       EPM                                                                    10/98          03/99
Distribution
EPM      D-01  Distribution transformers      3.50     USA/EU   Donor's method     01/98         03/98         06/98            06/98           12/98
EPM      D-02  35/20/10 kV Substations        1.50     USA/EU   Donors method    01/98           03/98         06/98            06/98           12/98
EPM      D-03 Conductors and ground wires     0.50     USA/EU   Donors method      01/98         03/98         06/98            06/98          12/98
EPM      D-04 LV equipment                    4.20     USAIEU   Donoes method      01/98         03/98         06/98            06/98          12/98
EPM      D-05 Works                           2A6        EPM                                                                    06/98          12/98
Office equipment
EPRS    0-01  Office equipment                0.05       IDA          NS           06/98
EPRS
Gacko Thermal Plant
EPRS    G-01  Electrostatic precipitators     2.65       IDA          ICB          06/98         09/98         02/99            04/99          08/99
(overhaui)
EPRS    G-02 Environmental protection for ash  1.22      IDA          ICB          09/98         12/98         04/99            05/99          10/99
disposal area
EPRS    G-03 Turbine/generator auxiliary      0.29       IDA           IS          06/98         09/98         01/99            04/99          08/99
equipment
EPRS    G-04 Works                            2.13      EPRS                                                                    04/99          10/99
UgljevIk Thermal Plant
EPRS    G-05 Spare parts for boiler           1.82               Donor's method    08/98         11/98         06/99            08v99          12/99
EPRS    G-06 Maintenance equipment and tools   1.52              Donor's method    08/98         11/98         05/99            08/99          12/99
EPRS    G-07 Works                            0.97      EPRS                                                                    08/99          12/99
Bocac Hlydro Plant
EPRS    G-08 Dam monitonng system             0.15       IDA           IS          06/98         09/98         02/99            04/99          09/99
EPRS    G-09 Generator/turbine bearngs and    0.85       IDA          LIB          08/98         11/98         05/99            07/99           11/99
control
EPRS    G-10  Protection, control, measurng,  1.00       IDA          ICB          10/98         01/99         07/99            08f99          12/99
signaling and communication equ.
EPRS    G-1 1 Maintenance equipment and tools   0.15     IDA           IS          08/98         11/98         05199              -
EPRS    G-12 Works                            0.52      EPRS                                                                    04/99          12/99
Trebinje Hydro Plant
EPRS    G-13 Dam monitorng system             0.20       IDA           IS          06/98         09/98         02/99            04/99          09/99
EPRS    G-14 Instrumentation and control for  0.70       IDA          LIB          08/98         11/98         06/99            07/99          12/99
turbine/generator
EPRS    G-15 Plant control and supervisory    0.20       IDA           IS          08/98         11/98         06/99            07/99          12199
system
EPRS    G-16 Maintenance equipment and tool    0.20      IDA           IS          08/98         11/98         05/99              -
EPRS    G-17 Works                            0.32      EPRS                                                                    04/99          12/99
Transmission
110 kV TL and SS In Srebrenica, Prijedor-Banja Luka are and Goza'de
EPRS    T-01  Transformer (overhaul)          0.40       EU      Donor's method    05/98         07/98         03/99            11/98          08/99
EPRS    T-02  Conductors, overhead ground     0.56       EU      Donors method     05/98         07/98         12/98            12/98          04/99
wire with optical fibers
EPRS    T-03  Auxiliary equipment             0.63        EU     Donors method     05/98         07/98         12/98            12/98          08/99
EPRS    T-04  Steel structure                 0.12        EU     Donor's method    05/98         07/98         11/98            12/98          02/99
EPRS    T-05  Works                           0.56      EPRS                                                                    12/98          06/99
SS 110 kV 110/35/10 kV Brcko 2
EPRS    T-06 Transformer (overhaul)           0.28      Canada   Donor's method    09/97         09/97         01/98            03/98          05/98
EPRS    T-07  MV and LV equipment             0.67     Canada   Donors method      10197         12/97         08/98            06/98          10/98
EPRS    T-08  Substation auxiliary equipment  0.55     Canada   Donors method      10/97         12/97         08/98            06/98          10/98
EPRS    T-09  Works                           0.34      EPRS                                                                    o3/98           10/98
Distribution
EPRS    D-01  Distribution transformers       3.61    EU/UKiUSA  Donor's method    12/97         05/98         10/98            05/99           12/99
EPRS    0-02  MV and LV cables                0.81    EU/UA/USA  Donors method     12/97         05/98         09/98            05/99           12/99



Page 57
EPRS    D-03  Conductors and ground wirs         1.44    EU/UKWUSA  Donors method       12t97          05198          09198            05/99            12199
EPRS    D-04  Auxiliary equiprent                5.25    EU/UKtUSA  Donors method       12197          05198          10198            05199            12199
EPRS    D-05  Steel structure                    0.81    EU/UK/USA  Donors method       12197          05/98          11/98             03199           11/99
EPRS    D-06  Works                              3.60       EPRS                                                                       03199            12199
Office equipment
EPRS    0-01  Office equipment                   0.05       IDA            NS           05198
Inter-entitles
T-01  Commujnication metering and      13.16      Japan    Donors method      07/97          09/97          02198             03198            12/98
Control (220110kViLines)
T-02  Line Protection 220/110kV Unes    0.40      DFID      Donor's method     12197         02/98          05/98             07/98            12/98
T-03  Tie Lines 400 kV                  8.86      DFID      Donor's method    07/97          09/97          02/98             07198           09/99
T-04  Transmission Lines 220kV Tuzla    1.50      DFID      Donoes method     09197          11/97          12197             07/97            12/97
- Djakovo - Gradacac
T-05  Doboj and Tuzla region 110 kV    6.00       DFID      Donor's method    09/97          11197          03198             05/98            12198
ring connection and substation
equipment
T-06  Works                             5.49           EP BiH/RS/M                                                            03/98           09/99
II. COAL SECTOR
Tuzia
RUT      C-01  Mechanical & electrical spare     3.40       OECF       OECF (DC)        06/98          08198          09/98             09/98           10/98
parts
RUT      C-02  Conveyor belts & truck tires      1.70       OECF       OECF (CB)        06198          08/98          11/98             11/98           12198
RUT      C-03  Bulldozers                        1.20       OECF       OECF (CB)        06/98          08/98          11198             11198           12198
RUT      C-04  Services for installation and     0.50       OECF       OECF (CB)        06198          08198          11198             11198           06199
overhauls
RUT      C-05  Dewatering pumps                  0.20       OECF       OECF (CB)        061898         0e8            11/98             11198           12198
RUT      C-06  Works                             0.74       RUT                                                                         09/98           06199
Central Bosnia
RUSB    C-07  Completion of railway connection   2.60       OECF       OECF (CB)        07198          09/98          12/98            12/98            03199
RUSB    C-08  Mechanical & electrical spare      1.60       OECF       OECF (DC)        07/98          09/98          12t98             12/98           02/99
parts
RUSB    C-09  Auxiliary mining equipment         1.20       OECF       OECF (CB)        07198         09/98           12/98             12/98           01/99
RUSB    C-10  Belt conveyor                      1.00       OECF       OECF (CB)        07198         09/98           12198             12198           03/99
RUSB    C-11  Workshop equipment                 0.60       OECF       OECF (DC)        07/98          09198          12/98             12t98           03/99
RUSB    C-12  Works                              0.74       RUSB                                                                        10198           03/99
UglJevik
C-13  Mechanical spare parts            1.80      OECF       OECF (DC)        06198          08/98          12/98             12198           03199
C-14  Bulldozers                        0.90      OECF       OECF (CB)        06198          08/98          02199             12t98           02199
C-15  Tires                             0.30      OECF        OECF (CB)       06898          08/98          01"99             12t98           01199
C-1 6  Works                            1.46     Ugljevik                                                                     12/98           03t99
Gacko
C-17  Auxiliary mining equipment        1.50      OECF       OECF (CB)        07/98          09/98          12/98            1298            02/99
C-18  Conveyorbelts&spareparts         2.50       OECF    OECF (CB/DC)        07/98          09/98          12/98             12/98           02199
C-19  Works                            0.73       Gacko                                                                       12/98           02t99



Page 58
Annex 6, Table B
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement      Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)            Method         Prior Review/
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior
Review
US$                                        US$
1. Works
2. Goods
$300,000 and above    ICB                  $300,000 and above
$300,000 - $1,000,000  LIB                 $300,000 and above
$50,000 - $300,000   IS
Below $50,000        National Shopping
3. Services
4. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:               $22,860,000 (91% of
the credit)



Page 59
Annex 6, Table C
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in            Financing
US$million          Percentage
1. Goods                                          24.65        100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
of local expenditures
(ex-factory), and
85% of local
expenditures
procured locally
2. Operating Costs                                 0.35         100%
Total                                              25.00       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



Page 60
Annex 7
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)               Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
$239,000             $250,000
B. Project Schedule                      Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)  11                 13
First Bank mission (identification)      03/03/1997            03/03/1997
Appraisal mission departure              11/21/1997            02/14/1998
Negotiations                             01/05/1998            02/23/1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness            05/21/1998            06/30/1998
Prepared by:                             Richard Hamilton
Preparation assistance:                  Yolanda L. Gedse
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name:                                    Specialty:
Richard Hamilton                         Senior Energy Economist
Bernard Baratz                           Principal Environmental Specialist
Weigong Cao                              Senior Power Engineer
(Procurement Accredited Staff)
Heinz Hendriks                           Senior Mining Engineer
Kishore Nadkarni                         Senior Financial Analyst
Marie-Theres Schurrer                    Energy Specialist
Enar Wennerstrom                         Senior Financial Analyst



Page 61
Annex 8
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Documents in the Project File
A. Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Cost and Benefit of Incremental Coal Supplies to Tuzla and Kakanj TPP, October 1997.
C. Other
Bechtel Consulting, Coal and Thermal Power Cost Study for Bosnia and Herzegovina,
August 1997
USAID Privatization Project, Electric Power Sector Restructuring and Privatization,
Bosnia and Herzegovina, August 1997
Verbundplan, Long Term Rehabilitation Study, TPP-Tuzla, Final Report, October 1997
Verbundplan, Long Term Rehabilitation Study TPP-Kakanj, Final Report,
November 1997



Page 62
Annex 9
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Status of Bank Group Operations in Bosnia and Herzegovina
A. Statement of Bank Loans ,
(As of February 28, 1998)
US$ Million
Loan       Fiscal                                                        (Less Cancellations)
No.         Year        Borrower           Proiect                            Loan      Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD b/
4038-BOS  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Consolidation Loan A                     28.6      0.0
4039-BOS  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Consolidation Loan B                    284.9      0.0
4040-BOS  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina Consolidation Loan C                     307.1      0.0
Total                                 620.6       0.0
Of Which: Repaid                       24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:           595.7
TFBHC/ (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Recovery Credit               45.0      1.2
TF-024031  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Farm Reconstruction           20.0      0.0
TF-024032  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Water Supply                  20.0      0.5
TF-024033  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Transport                     35.0      5.8
TF-024034  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency District Heating dl           20.0      1.4
TF-024035  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation     5.0      0.0
TF-024040  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Education Reconstruction       5.0      0.0
Total                                 150.0       8.9
IDA
2897-BOS  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Education Reconstruction         5.0      0.6
2896-BOS  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation       5.0      5.0
2902-BOS  1996 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Housing Repair                 15.0      1.3
2903-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Power Reconstruction           35.6      3.3
2904-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Public Works and Employment  10.0         1.7
2905-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Landmines Clearance             7.5      0.9
2906-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration 7.5     3.7
2914-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Transition Assistance Credit             90.0      0.0
N001-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee    10.0      0.5
N002-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives  7.0   2.6
N003-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Essential Hospital Services              15.0     11.4
0320-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Transport Reconstruction II              39.0     30.0
0350-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Education Reconstruction II              11.0      9.5
3028-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina Reconstruction Assistance Project         17.0     15.7
3029-BOS  1997 Bosnia and Herzegovina  Emergency Natural Gas                    10.0     10.0
Total                                 284.6      96.2
a/ The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October31.
h/ ConsolidationLoans A, B, and C were approvedon June 13,1996 and became effectiveon June 14,1996.
&' Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.
,v Disbursementsto date are from the ProjectStart-Up Advance (of which US$2 million is disbursed for Gas).



Page 63
Annex 10
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
SECOND ELECTRIC POWER RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of November 30, 1997)
(In US$ millions)
Gross Commitments
--  US$ Million-------
Fiscal
Year      Obligor                  Type of Business                      Loan   Equitv  Total
1977   Tvornica Kartona I
Ambalaze Cazin      Timber, Pulp and Paper                         3.79    0.0    3.79
1985   Sour Energoinvest    Industrial Equipment and Machinery             8.82    0.0    8.82
1997   Horizonte BiH
Enterprise Fund     SME Investment                                0.0    2.00    2.00
1997   Microentreprise
Bank                Microcredit                                   0.0    0.57    0.57
1997   Sarajevska Pivara    Brewery                                        8.04    0.0    8.04
Total Gross Commitments                      20.65    2.57  23.22
Less: Participations, Cancellations, Terminations,
Exchange Adjustments, Repayments, Write-offs
and Sales                                  23.50    2.60  26.10
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC            20.65    2.57  23.22
Total Undisbursed                             5.01    2.00    7.01
Total Outstanding                            15.64    0.57   16.21



Page 64
Annex 1 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance
Bosnia  Europe &
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                       and    Central    Low-
Herzegovina      Asia  Income        Development diamond'
Population mid-1995 (millions)                           4.1       488    3,180
GNP per capita 1995 (USS)l1                               ..    2,220        430                 Life expectancy
GNP 1995 (billions US$)l                                  ..      1,084    1,382
T
Average annual growth, 1990-95
Population (%)                                                      0.3       1.7     GNP                                 Gross
Labor force (Y.)                                            -       0.5       1.7     per
Most recent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                               capita                          enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of population)
Urban populalion (% of total population)                  49         65       29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                          71         68       63
infant mortality (per 1,000 five births)                  19         26       69                Access to safe water
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)
Access to safe water (% of population)                                        53
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                                          34                                                  .
Gross primary enrollment (% of school-age population)     ..         97      105            -Hosnia and Hezegovlna
Male                                                    ..        97       112            -Low-income group
Female                                                  ..        97        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975     1985       1995     1996
Economic ratios'
GDP (billions USS)                               ..       ..        2.1       3.3
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                                                                  Openness of economy
Exports of goods and services/GDP                 ..      ..       19.0     20.3
Gross domestic savings/GDP                       ..
Gross national savings/GDP                       ..
Current account balance/GDP                       ..       ..    -27.0    -43.0
Interest payments/GDP                             ..       ..                         Savings    i                    Investment
Total debtVGDP                                   ..        ..    167.0    116.0
Total debt service/exports                       ..        ..     118.0     72.0
Present value of debtUGDP                         ..
Present value of debt/exports                                                                      Indebtedness
1975-85  1986-96     1995       1996  1997-05
(average annua/ growth)                                                                   -     Bosnia and Herzegovina
GDP                                      .        ..    33.0       50.0      14.0               Low-income group
GNP per capita                          ..       ..       ..       59.0                      o         m
Exports of goods and services          ..        ..       ..       74.0      19.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1975     1991       1985     1996 
(% of GDP)                                      7                                     Growth rates of output and Investment (%)
Agriculture                                              9.5                 190      eso
Industry                                         ..    43.0          ..    23.0       40I
Manufacturing                                             ..       ..               20
Services                                          ..    47.5         ..    58.0      o  l  l
91   92   93    94    95   99
Private consumption                               ..
General govemment consumption                    ..        ..        ..        ..                     GI   --GDP
Imports of goods and services                    ..       ..       63.0     73.0
197585  1986-96       1995      1996
(average annual growth)                                                               Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                                          O..
Industry                                         ..       ..         ..             [  9o 4
Manufacturing                                  ..        ..         ..       ..       94
Services                                                                               40 4 5
Prvate consumption                                ,.      ..         ..        ..       o    _!_,_i__
General govemment consumption                    ..       ..         ..        ..             91   92   93   94   f9   99
Gross domestic investment                        ..       ..
Imports of goods and services                    ,.        .       23.0     78.0             -E xports  -I-lmports
Gross national product                           .,
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates.
Large proporton of data are missing due to scant and partial data in case of Bosnia and Herzegovina at present, early, stage of post-war era.
111995 GNP figure is not available. GDP per capita is estimated to be US$ 501.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 65
Annex I 1
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975     1985        1995     1996
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflatlon (%)
(% change)                                                                                20
Consumer prices                                     ..       ..      -40.0       7.7                                              D
Implicit GDP deflator                              ..        ..                                         92 ..  o .l
-2- 91    92    93    94    95     96
Government finance                                                                        2
(Y/o of GDP)                                                                            -40.           
Current revenue                                     ..       ..       35.0      62.0
Current budget balance                             ..        ..        0.0      -7.0            -      GDP def. ---CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                            ,.         .
TRADE
1975     1985       1995      1996
(millions US$)                                                                            Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob)                                                   152       336       2,000 
n.a.
n.a.                                                                                    1,500 -
Manufactures
Total imports (cifl                                ..        ..      1,082     1,882      1.000 
Food                                             ..                                      Boo
Fuel and energy                                   .                    .         .        o       
Capital goods                                     ..                             ..        o   _  _  _l     _   __   _   _  _  _
Export price index (1987=100)                                                                   90  91   92   93   94   95   96
Import price index (1987=100)                                                                      * Exports    a Imports
Terms of trade (1987=100)                          ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975     1985        1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                           Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                      ..        ..       381       658
Imports of goods and services                      ..        ..      1.334    2,379       o                  . 1               _
Resource balance                                    ,.       .,      -953    -1,721      -
-10T
Net factor income                                   ..       ..      -242      -220      -15 T
Net current transfers                              ..        ..       625       536      -20                                   -
-25
Current account balance.                                                                 -30
before official capital transfers                ..        ..       -570    -1,405     -35
Financing items (net)                              ..        ..       708      1,803     -40
Changes in net reserves                            ..        .,      -138      -398      45
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. S)                   ..US$
Conversion rate (locaU1US$)                        ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975     1985        1995     1996
(millions US$)                                                                           Composition of total debt, 1996 (mill. US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..        ..      3,518    3,790
IBRD                                             ..        .,       625       590    1
IDA                                              ..        ..         0       175                               A
Total debt service                                 ,.        ,.       451       476                               590
lBORD.                                                      .         .        12
IDA.                                                                            1
Composition of net resource flows                                                                 F                    D
Official grants                                  ..2024                                                           56
Official creditors                               ..
Private creditors                                ..899
Foreign direct investment                        ..
Portfolio equity                                 ..
World Bank program
Commitments                                      ..        ..         ..        ..      A - IBRO                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                    ..        ..         ..        ..      B - IDA    D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                             .,        ,,         ,,        ,       C - IMF                       G - Short-term
Net flows                                         ..       .._.._..
Interest payments                                ..
Net transfers                                    ..
2/ Dat refers only to the Federation of BiH. In Republika Srpska, annual percentage change in CPI was 204.4 in 1995 and -8.5 in 1996.
Intemational Economics Department



IBRD 29266
1 6                 -6_3              17                                     18                                    1 
CROATIA                                                             Du e
Meduri6
V.S Mraclin dut                                            Bosanska                    S. BrodKIodu\o
45~~~ Cazinrati
CROATIA                                                             CQpX Gradi                          Zupanz  a   Zr             Lozrik
~~ <     EvP;,   8~B Grahovo                          TS     Jj                               ; aITaA  S..S2
AdiaIc                    Searb  M-Bod                                                                                     Emestin-e    MNENGO
| r                                                                                             OcIa '                                                         45j ',ka
BOSNIA AO
EUkrinNa COMPONENTrTRANSMISSIeNbLrNESni[AC L                                              1s 990
VakHEML  OE                                    HP   BoAN c  Mop       Unf o    g aoBj  ~                                    R E
os(  ki  K                                                                               braveh noedoM, OJbs  cl  GOLegnia\ 
mGra                   Z~~ ~~                                        evig!teuoo  tru~o
CROATI     ~       ~             ATONLCAITLan  ndoremea  orZrpac  1                                  ~        ,h,,~~             ~/        vornik
-e  ra                            TSINENAOA JONaRi  vnik    Ju           nicaGladCn
17  ~ ~       ~       ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~      ~      ~       TURKEY~~~e ~vasC
EVI"Strnnic.  B. Grahovo ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ARH  99



