Report No. PIC5380
Project Name                  Bosnia Herzegovina-Second Electric Power      rHi) 
Reconstruction Project
Region                        Europe and Central Asia
Sector                        Power Sector
Project ID                    BAPA45483
Borrower                      Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementation Agencies       Elektroprivreda Bosne i Hercegovine (EPBiH),
Sarajevo,
Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Mr. Emir Aganovic,
General Manager, EPBiH,
Fax No:387-71 654-266.
Elektroprivreda Mostar,
Mostar, Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Mr. Mate Jurkovic, General Manager, EPM,
Fax No:387-88 801-079.
Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS),
Banja Luka, Republika Srpska,
Mr. Nikola Erceg, General Manager, EPRS,
Fax No: 381-78 41 224.
Environment Category          B
Date PID Prepared             June 23, 1997
Projected Appraisal           September 1997
Projected Board Date          January 1998
Country and Sector Background
1. Before the war, the Bosnia and Herzegovina power system
consisted of: (a) 13 hydropower plants with a total capacity of
2,034 Megawatts (MW) and an average output of 6,922 gigawatt hours
(GWh) per year; (b) 12 brown coal and lignite fired power plants
with an installed capacity of 1,957 MW and an output of 10,675 GWh
in 1990; (c) transmission and distribution facilities
interconnected and operated at 400, 220, 110, 35, 20, 10 and 0.4 kV
voltage levels, with about 5,400 km of transmission lines and
92,000 km of distribution lines. In 1995, Bosnia and Herzegovina
produced 4,207 GWh of electricity, of which 2,046 GWh were from
generating plants located on the Federation's territory, and 2,355
GWh from the generation plants located on Republika Srpska's territory.
2. Before the war, the Bosnia and Herzegovina power system was
operated by one enterprise: Elektroprivreda Bosne i Herzegovine
(EPBiH). Being part of the former Yugoslav network, the 400 kV
power grid in Bosnia and Hezegovina interconnected with Croatia,
Montenegro, Serbia, and UCPTE, and was controlled by the Union of



Yugoslav Electric Power Industry's (JUGEL) dispatching center in
Belgrade. Power exchanges with neighboring countries were also
controlled by JUGEL. The power system in Bosnia and Hezegovina is
now de facto operated by three regional companies: EPBiH, in the
Bosniac majority part of the Federation, EPM, in the Croat majority
part of the Federation and EPRS in the Republika Srpska.
3.      The whole system suffered significant damage as a result of
war actions or war-related lack of maintenance. More than 50
percent of the generating capacity was put out of operation; 60
percent of the transmission network and control system was
seriously damaged; and the distribution network was largely
destroyed. A 1996-99 electric power reconstruction program was
established to rehabilitate critical elements of the power system
in order to restore an acceptable level of electricity supply. The
Emergency Electric Power Rehabilitation Project Credit 2903-BOS
covered major rehabilitation in the Bosniac part of the Federation.
The proposed Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project would
consist of components for both the Federation and Republika Srpska.
Project Description
4. The project scope would cover: (i) rehabilitation of generation
plants, including civil works and mechanical/electrical equipment;
(ii) repair of priority transmission and distribution networks; and
(iii) technical assistance for a study of the rehabilitation of the
400 kV system throughout BH, and for engineering and management.
Project Objectives
5. The objectives are to: (i) restore normal power supplies to as
wide an area of Bosnia and Herzegovina as possible, in order to
facilitate economic recovery, through (a) strengthening generation
capacity by rehabilitating/maintaining existing power plants and
extending their useful lives; and (b) rehabilitating the existing
transmission and distribution networks and reconnecting cut-off
areas; (ii) encourage practical inter-entity co-operation and the
sharing of resources on a mutually beneficial basis; and (iii)
support improvements in power sector organization and operation of
electric utilities, billing, collection and tariff policies.
Project Financing
6. The estimated total project cost, including physical
contingencies, is US$285 million. IDA financing of the proposed
project would be about US$20 million. Cofinancing with other donors
will be mandatory and will be pursued during the upcoming Spring
1997 Donors Conference.
Project Implementation
7. Preliminary talks have been held with officials from the
Federation and RS Governments and the Elektroprivredas. Project
proposals have been submitted by them and have undergone a first
screening by Bank staff. More information needs to be gathered on
-2 -



perceived critical priority needs. Some feasibility studies will
need to be undertaken. Project preparation started in March 1997.
Project Sustainability
8. Project sustainability will depend on maintenance of technically
capable and financially viable power companies, and effective
coordination between them. The technical competence of existing
power company staffs is satisfactory. The project will support
insitutional reform and measures to ensure financial viability.
Actions to achieve the necessary coordination between the companies
are preconditions of further project processing.
Lessons Learned and Rationale for Bank Involvement
9. Experience in several post-conflict countries has shown the need
for outside funding to rebuild damaged infrastructure in order to
provide a basis for resumption of economic growth and to meet the
normal requrements of households for energy and other services. The
Bank played a large role in financing power system expansion in
Bosnia and Herzegovina prior to the war, and has demonstrated
leadership in mobilizing funds from the donor community for the
power sector since the end of the war.
Environmental Aspects
10. The proposed project would involve the rehabilitation of
existing infrastructure. It is proposed that the project be placed
in Environmental Category B. This requires preparation of an
environmental monitoring and mitigation plan.
Project Benefits
11. The benefits would include: (i) restoration of electricity
supply to a large number of consumers cut off during the war, (ii)
increased production and transmission of electricity resulting from
rehabilitation of damaged facilities; (iii) improved quality of
power supply; (iv) institutional strengthening of the power sector
entities; and (v) improvements in efficiency of use of electricity
resulting from improvements in tariffs to better reflect economic costs.
Project Risks
12. Apart from the possibility of renewed hostilities, the risks
include the failure to: (i) mobilize sufficient funding for the
entire project; (ii) achieve needed coordination between companies;
and (iii) restore collections of revenue to pre-war levels. The
first risk will be addressed by seeking financing from other donors
at a planned donors conference. In the event that sufficient
financing is not found, the project scope would be reduced. The
second risk would be alleviated by requiring the establishment of
satisfactory coordination procedures as a condition of further
project processing. The third risk would be addressed through
project covenants aimed at improving collections.
-3 -



Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending June 27, 1997.
- 4 -



Annex
Environmental Aspects
The main environmental issues relate to the thermal power stations
that would be rehabilitated. These issues include: dust emissions,
sulfur dioxide emissions, possible transboundary acid rain,
untreated industrial wastewater at one plant, leaching at an ash
disposal site, and pollution from ash transport. Among the actions
proposed to address these are: improved electrostatic
precipitators, further investigation to determine the extent of
transboundary impacts; completion of an industrial wastewater
treatment plant; improvements to contain leaching at the ash
disposal site. In the medium term installation of flue gas
desulfurization would be required for the Ugljevik power plant. The
use of an ash slurry pipeline or enclosed trucks for ash transport
would be investigated.
A minor issue at coal mines is spontaneous combustion of newly
mined coal. No remediary action is proposed. There are no major
environmental issues relating to rehabilitation of hydropower
plants, transmission and distribution facilities.
- 5 -



