Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3071 BOS
RS/EPRS Project Agreement
(Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA/ ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Dated as of June 11, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3071 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 11, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association), REPUBLIKA SRPSKA (RS), and ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA 
SRPSKA (EPRS).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
RS/EPRS agree to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in 
this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and RS/EPRS part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the Development 
Credit Agreement will be made available to EPRS on terms and conditions set forth in 
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS RS/EPRS in consideration of the Association’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Page  2
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) RS/EPRS declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this 
end, shall carry out Part B and Part D.2 of  the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, 
environmental, and technical practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and RS/EPRS shall otherwise agree, RS/EPRS shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the PIP and the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  RS/EPRS shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. RS/EPRS shall duly perform all its obligations under the RS/EPRS 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, RS/EPRS 
shall not take or concur in any action which would have the effect of assigning, 
amending, abrogating or waiving the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision 
thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) RS/EPRS shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance 
of its obligations under this Agreement and under the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
RS/EPRS shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by RS/EPRS of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPRS
Section 3.01. EPRS shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, engineering and 
technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPRS shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound environmental, 
engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. EPRS shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPRS shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
EPRS shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts, financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and cash 
Page  3
flow for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPRS shall 
put into effect a billing and collection system resulting in the collection from its 
customers of at least  one hundred ten percent (110%), one hundred twenty-five percent 
(125%), and one hundred forty percent (140%) of the total current cash operating 
expenses of EPRS in calendar years 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively. For the purposes 
of this paragraph, the term "total current cash operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation and interest and other charges 
on debt.
(b)
Before June 30 in each calendar year, EPRS shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by EPRS and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following calendar year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EPRS would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the calendar year covered by such review, EPRS shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPRS shall 
not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and expenditures of 
the Borrower shows that the estimated net revenues of the Borrower for each fiscal 
year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least 1.5 times its 
estimated debt service requirements of the Borrower in such year on all debt of the 
Borrower including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of the Borrower maturing by 
its terms more than one year after the date on which it is 
originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
Page  4
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by the 
Borrower not earlier than twelve months prior to the incurrence of 
the debt in question, which both the Association and the Borrower 
accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has notified 
the Borrower of its acceptability, provided that no event has 
occurred since such notification which has, or may reasonably be 
expected in the future to have, a material adverse effect on the 
financial condition or future operating results of the Borrower.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
RS/EPRS thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify RS/EPRS 
of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, facsimile or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses 
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
48423 (MCI) or
Page  5
Washington, D.C.
 4145 (MCI)
For Republika Srpska:
RS Ministry of Finance
1 Krajiskog Korpusa (Dom Vojske - Komanda Garnizon)
78000 Banja Luka, Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
Ministry of Finance
387 78 18 634
Republika Srpska
For Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska:
EPRS
Hotel Koran, Koran
Pale, Republika Srpska
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
EPRS
381 71 787 084
Pale,
Republika Srpska
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of RS 
or by RS on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by its Ministry of Finance, or by such other person or persons as RS 
shall designate in writing, and RS shall furnish to the Association sufficient 
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such 
person.
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPRS or by EPRS on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as EPRS shall 
designate in writing, and EPRS shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of 
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Saumya Mitra 
Authorized Representative
REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
By /s/  Biljana Plavsic 
Authorized Representative
ELEKTROPRIVREDA REPUBLIKA SRPSKA
Page  6
By /s/ Drago Skulic 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
1.
RS/EPRS shall, at least until the completion of the Project, maintain RS PIU 
with structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the Association. 
2.
RS shall:
(a)
by October 31, 1998, submit to its Parliament, draft amendments to the RS 
Electricity Law, based inter alia, on the recommendations in the Privatization Project 
Report (August 1997);
(b)
by October 31, 1998, start to implement, in accordance with a time-table 
to be agreed with the Association, power sector restructuring and regulatory reform 
actions agreed with the Association; and
(c)
(i) undertake and, by December 31, 1998, complete the electricity tariff 
study being funded by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; (ii) 
furnish to the Association forthwith the said study upon completion and discuss with 
it the results and recommendations thereof; and (iii) thereafter take appropriate 
measures to implement, in accordance with a time-table agreed with the Association, 
the said recommendations taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the 
Association.
3.
EPRS shall:
(a)
reduce its total power distribution losses as a percentage of electricity 
entering the distribution system to 16% in 1999 and 12% in 2000, and thereafter 
maintain such losses below that level;
(b)
by July 30, 1998, establish, jointly with EPBiH and EPM, under terms of 
reference, acceptable to the Association, and thereafter maintain an Electricity 
Coordinating Center, comprising such staff from EPBiH, EPRS and EPM and with such 
functions and powers as are deemed satisfactory by the Association, EPBiH, EPRS and 
EPM;
(c)
take appropriate measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation 
of a technically integrated power system of BiH;
(d)
by October 31, 1998, trade electric power with EPBiH and EPM on a 
commercial basis, using prices which cover the economic costs of the electricity 
traded (such costs to be calculated on the basis of a methodology acceptable to the 
Association) and which prices, depending on the cost estimates, may differ by time of 
day as well as season; and
(e)
furnish to the Association by December 31, 1998, a revised implementation 
schedule for the Environmental Management Plans for the Gacko and Ugljevik thermal 
power stations, including sources of funding for proposed investments.
