Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3071 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated as of June 11, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3071 BOS
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 11, 1998, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Borrower or BiH) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
Parts A and D.1 of the Project will be carried out by the Federation of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Federation) through Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina 
(EPBiH) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of such assistance, the Borrower 
will make available to EPBiH a portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in 
this Agreement;
(C)
Parts B and D.2 of the Project will be carried out by Republika Srpska 
(RS) through Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska (EPRS) with the Borrower’s assistance, 
and as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to EPRS a portion of 
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(D)
Parts C and D.1 of the Project will be carried out by the Federation 
through Elektroprivreda Mostar (EPM) with the Borrower’s assistance, and as part of 
such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the EPM a portion of the proceeds 
of the Credit as provided in this Agreement;
(E)
In order to assist in financing Part E of the Project, the Borrower 
intends to enter into agreements (the Cofinancing Agreements) with other external 
Page  2
agencies, providing the Borrower with a total amount (the Cofinancing Amount) 
equivalent to about $108,000,000; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement, of even date herewith between the Association and Federation/EPBiH/EPM and 
between the Association and RS/EPRS, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, as amended through December 2, 
1997 (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"EPBiH" means Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina, a legal entity 
established pursuant to its Charter and existing under the laws of the Borrower, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Association.
(b)
"Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the 
Association and Federation, EPBiH and EPM, of even date herewith, as the same may be 
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement.
(c)
"Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered or entered into between the Borrower and Federation/EPBiH pursuant to Section 
3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)
"EPM" means Elektroprivreda Mostar, a legal entity established pursuant 
to its Charter and existing under the laws of the Federation, and includes any 
successor or successors thereto acceptable to the Association.
(e)
"EPRS" means Elektroprivreda Republika Srpska, a legal entity established 
pursuant to its Charter and existing under the laws of RS, and includes any successor 
or successors thereto acceptable to the Association.
(f)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
(g)
"Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be 
entered or entered into between the Borrower and Federation/EPM pursuant to Section 
3.01(d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules to the Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(h)
"PIP" means the Project Implementation Plan for the Project, dated 
February 26, 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time with the agreement of 
the Borrower and the Association.
(i)
"Federation PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in 
paragraph 1 of the Schedule to the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement.
(j)
"RS PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to in paragraph 1 
of the Schedule to the RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
(k)
"Republika Srpska" or "RS" means the Republika Srpska, a political 
sub-division of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto.
(l)
"RS/EPRS Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association 
and RS/EPRS, of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and 
such term includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement.
Page  3
(m)
"RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered or 
entered into between the Borrower and RS/EPRS pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this 
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all 
schedules to the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(n)
"Special Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eighteen million five hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of Parts A, B and C of the Project, 
open and maintain in Deutsche Marks, two special deposit accounts: Special Account A 
for Parts A, C and D(1) of the Project, and Special Account B for Parts B and D(2) of 
the Project, in a commercial bank or banks, acceptable to the Association, on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection 
against set-off, seizure and attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of the 
Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on 
each June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 2008, and ending December 1, 2032.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2017, shall 
be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) consecutive years the 
Page  4
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the loan/grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause the Federation/EPBiH/EPM and RS/EPRS, to perform in 
accordance with the provisions of the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement and the 
RS/EPRS Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of the 
Federation/EPBiH/EPM and RS/EPRS, therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken 
all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other 
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Federation/EPBiH/EPM and RS/EPRS, to 
perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which 
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)
For the purposes of Parts A and D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit amounting to SDR 8,360,000 equivalent 
to EPBiH under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
the Federation/EPBiH under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by the 
EPBiH to the Borrower in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency 
as may be agreed upon between the Borrower and the 
Federation/EPBiH in equal semi-annual installments over twenty 
years, including a grace period of five years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by EPBiH 
shall be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks or in any such other 
currency as may be selected under paragraph (i) above (determined 
as of the date, or respective dates of repayment) of the value of 
the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on 
accounts of the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
subsidiary loan at a rate equal to the rate of the service charge 
payable by the Borrower under Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(c)
For the purposes of Parts B and D.2 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
Page  5
relend a portion of the proceeds of the Credit amounting to SDR 5,550,000 equivalent 
to EPRS under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and 
RS/EPRS under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.  
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and conditions shall 
include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by 
RS/EPRS in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency as may be 
agreed upon between the Borrower and RS/EPRS in equal semi-annual 
installments over twenty years, including a grace period of five 
(5) years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by the 
RS/EPRS shall be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks or in any such 
other currency as may be selected under Paragraph (i) above 
(determined as of the date, or respective dates of repayment) of 
the value of the currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit 
Account on accounts of the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
subsidiary loan at a rate equal to the rate of the service charge 
payable by the Borrower under Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
(d)
For the purposes of Parts C and D.1 of the Project, the Borrower shall 
relend the proceeds of the Credit amounting to SDR 4,590,000 equivalent to EPM under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation/EPM under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association.  Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, such terms and 
conditions shall include the following: 
(i)
the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid by EPM 
in Deutsche Marks or in such other currency as may be agreed upon 
between the Borrower and the Federation/EPM in equal semi-annual 
installments over twenty years, including a grace period of five 
years;
(ii)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable by EPM shall 
be the equivalent in Deutsche Marks or in any such other currency 
as may be selected under paragraph (i) above (determined as of the 
date, or respective dates of repayment) of the value of the 
currency or currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account on 
accounts of the Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(iii)
interest shall be charged on the outstanding balance of the 
subsidiary loan at a rate equal to the rate of the service charge 
payable by the Borrower under Section 2.05 of this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of Parts A, C and 
D.1 of the Project shall be carried out by the Federation/EPBiH/EPM, and in respect of 
Parts B and D.2 of the Project shall be carried out by RS/EPRS, pursuant to Section 
2.04 of each of the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement.
Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall:
Page  6
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the PIP, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 30, 1999, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by July 31, 1999, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association views on the 
matter.
Section 3.06. Without prejudice to any of its obligation to the Bank or the 
Association under any loan or credit either as borrower or guarantor, the Borrower 
shall, by December 31, 1998, apportion all electric power sector debts to the Bank and 
the Association among EPBiH, EPRS and EPM respectively and determine the terms and 
conditions of repayment.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditures, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and
(ii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section, including those for the Special Accounts, for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably requested.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
The Federation or EPBiH or EPM shall have failed to perform any of its 
Page  7
obligations under the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Federation or EPBiH or EPM will be able to perform its 
obligations under the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement.
(c)
RS or EPRS shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
(d)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that RS/EPRS will be able to perform its obligations under the 
RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
(e)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Federation/EPM will be able to perform its obligations 
under the Federation/EPM Project Agreement.
(f)
The Cofinancing Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1998, or such later date or dates as the Association may agree; provided, 
however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the Project 
are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this Agreement.
(g)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
grant or loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the agreement 
providing therefor, or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring is not caused 
by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its obligations 
under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under 
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice 
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)
the event specified in paragraph (g)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (a)(ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)
The Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the RS/EPRS Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement and the Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been executed on 
behalf of the parties thereto.
(b)
Auditors have been appointed pursuant to and in accordance with Section 
4.01(b) of this Agreement and Section 4.01(b) of the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project 
Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project Agreement.
Page  8
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)
That EPBiH is a legal entity duly formed pursuant to its Charter and 
validly existing under the laws of the Borrower and is fully empowered and duly 
authorized to enter into the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement and the 
Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to assume and carry out the obligations 
thereunder.
(b)
That EPRS is a legal entity duly formed pursuant to its Charter and 
validly existing under the laws of RS and is fully empowered and duly authorized to 
enter into the RS/EPRS Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Subsidiary Loan Agreement and 
to assume and carry out the obligations thereunder.
(c)
That EPM is a legal entity duly formed pursuant to its Charter and 
validly existing under the laws of the Federation and is fully empowered and duly 
authorized to enter into the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement and the 
Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement and to assume and carry out the obligations 
thereunder.
(d)
That the Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement and the RS/EPRS Project 
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by the Federation/EPBiH/EPM and by 
RS/EPRS and are legally binding upon the Federation/EPBiH/EPM and RS/EPRS in 
accordance with their terms.
(e)
That the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement, the RS/EPRS 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement have been 
duly authorized or ratified by and are legally binding upon the Federation/EPBiH, 
RS/EPRS and the Federation/EPM in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and IV of this 
Agreement and the provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall 
cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever 
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for Foreign 
Trade and Economic Relations is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations
Musala 9
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address: 
Facsimile number:
Ministry of Foreign
387 71 449 911
Trade and Economic
Relations
Sarajevo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  9
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Alija Izetbegovic 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Saumya Mitra 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods under
100% of foreign
expenditures, 100%
(a) Part A of the
   8,280,000
of local expendi-
Project
tures (ex-factory
cost) and 85% of
(b) Part B of the
   5,450,000
local expenditures
Project
for other items
procured locally
(c) Part C of the
   4,510,000
Project
(2)
Incremental operating
100%
costs under
(a) Part D(1) of the
     160,000
Project
(b) Part D(2) of the
     100,000
Project
TOTAL
  18,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  10
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; 
and
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means the incremental expenses 
incurred by the Federation PIU and the RS PIU, on account of Parts A and C, and Part 
B, respectively, of the Project for staff salaries (excluding salaries of officials of 
the Borrower), office facilities, services, staff travel and consumable office 
supplies as agreed by the Association.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for goods, under contracts 
costing less than $300,000 equivalent, and all incremental operating costs, under such 
terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to restore electric power in Bosnia and 
Herzegovina (BiH) on the least cost basis and to improve cost recovery of various 
power companies in BiH.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A:
TUZLA THERMAL POWER PLANT IN THE FEDERATION
1.
Rehabilitation of common facilities and maintenance of the 32 MW cogeneration 
units in the Tuzla Thermal Power Plant. 
PART B:
POWER PLANTS IN THE RS
1.
Rehabilitation of the turbine/generator bearings and control equipment in the 
Bocac Hydropower Plant.
2.
Rehabilitation of the turbine/generator, repair and upgrade of electrostatic 
precipitator, environmental protection at the ash yard, and provision of spare parts 
for the coal delivery machine and water temperature control in the Gacko Thermal Power 
Plant.
3.
Overhaul of the dam monitoring system, instrumentation and control, and 
replacement of worn out maintenance equipment and tools in the Trebinje 1 and 2 
Hydropower Plants.
PART C:
OTHER POWER PLANTS IN THE FEDERATION
1.
Rehabilitation of the 220 kV substation in the Rama Hydropower Plant.
2.
Rehabilitation of the electrical equipment in the Jajce Hydropower Plant (Second 
Phase).
3.
Replacement of the damaged air compressor in the Capljina Hydropower Plant. 
PART D:
INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
1.
Supply of office equipment and supplies and provision of a part of the operating 
costs of the Federation PIU.
2.
Supply of office equipment and supplies and provision of a part of the operating 
costs of the RS PIU.
PART E:
OTHER PROJECT ACTIVITIES NOT FINANCED UNDER THE CREDIT
1.
Rehabilitation of common facilities of the plant and maintenance of the 32 MW 
Page  11
cogeneration units in the Kakanj Thermal Power Plant (Second Phase).
2.
Provision of spare parts for boiler maintenance, and replacement of worn out 
maintenance equipment and tools in the Ugljevik Thermal Power Plant.
3.
Rehabilitation of transmission facilities between the Federation and RS: (a) 
Provision of communication and metering equipment for power exchanges, and control 
equipment for existing 110 kV and 220 kV transmission lines; (b) provision of 
equipment for urgent protection measures on existing 220/110 kV transmission lines; 
(c) provision of equipment and materials for rehabilitation of the 400 kV transmission 
lines (Tuzla-Sarajevo, Sarajevo-Mostar, Mostar-Gacko, and Visegrad-Tuzla); (d) 
rehabilitation of 220 kV lines (Tuzla-Gradacac-Djakovo); and (e) rehabilitation of the 
Doboj and Tuzla regions’ 110 kV ring connections. 
4.
Rehabilitation of transmission facilities in the Federation: (a) Gradacac 
substation (220/110 kV); and (b) 110 kV transmission line from Mostar to Stolac.
5.
Rehabilitation of transmission facilities in RS: Rehabilitation of: (a) the 110 
kV Brcko 2 and Srebrenica substations; and (b) the 110 kV transmission lines (Konjevik 
Polje-Srebenica, Banja Luka 6 - Prijedor 5, Banja Luka-Gradiska, and Pale-Gorazde).
6.
Rehabilitation of distribution networks in the Federation: Rehabilitation of 35, 
20, 10 and 0.4 kV networks in the areas of Unsko-Sanski, Posavski, 
Tuzlansko-Podrinjski, Zenicko-Dobojski, Srednjebosanski, Sarajevo and Zapadnobosanski.
7.
Rehabilitation of distribution networks in RS: Rehabilitation of 35, 20, 10 and 
0.4 kV networks in the areas of Bijeljina, Pale, Trebinje, Doboj and Banja Luka.
8.
Provision of technical assistance for undertaking: (a): (i) an electric power 
transmission and institutional rehabilitation study; and (ii) a coal sector 
restructuring study; and (b) engineering and project management support.
9.
Provision of equipment and materials to coal mines in the Federation: (a) Tuzla 
Coal Mines (RUT): Provision of materials, spare parts and auxiliary equipment for the 
Banovici, Sikulje and Dubrave surface mines and the Mramor underground mine; and (b) 
Central Bosnia Coal Mines (RUSB): Provision of auxiliary equipment and spare parts for 
the Vrtliste surface mine and the Breza underground mine. 
10.
Provision of equipment and materials to the Coal Mines in RS: Provision of 
materials, spare parts and auxiliary equipment for the Gacko and Ugljevik surface 
mines.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1999.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $300,000 equivalent or more each.
Page  12
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent 
or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures applicable to large 
contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods of specialized nature, estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,850,000 equivalent, and 
goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $150,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract under Parts B.1 and C.1 hereof, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract under Parts C.2 and C.3 hereof, estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures 
the Borrower shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
contracting or shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft 
contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  13
SCHEDULE 4
Special Accounts
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means, in the case of Special Account A 
Categories 1(a) and (c) and 2(a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement, and in the case of Special Account B Categories 1(b) and 2(b) set 
forth in the said table;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods required for  the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount to be withdrawn from the 
Credit Account and deposited into the Special Accounts pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of 
this Schedule, equivalent, in the case of Special Account A to 1,300,000 Deutsche 
Marks, and in the case of Special Account B to 450,000 Deutsche Marks.
2.
Payments out of the respective Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
respective Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the respective Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the respective Special 
Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have 
requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the respective Special Account, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the 
respective Special Account at such intervals as the Association 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the respective Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the respective Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be 
withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other 
evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the respective Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to 
the Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into any Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
Page  14
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Accounts;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the respective Special Account, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Parts of the Project related to 
that Special Account, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation for that Special Account.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories for that Special Account shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the respective 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of any Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the respective Special Account (or, if the Association shall so 
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into any Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in any Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Accounts.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
