Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3071 BOS
Federation/EPBiH/EPM Project Agreement
(Second Electric Power Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA/ 
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNIA AND 
HERZEGOVINA/ELEKTROPRIVREDA MOSTAR
Dated as of June 11, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3071 BOS
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated as of June 11, 1998, between the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Federation), ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (EPBiH) and ELEKTROPRIVREDA MOSTAR 
(EPM).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed 
to lend to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million 
five hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 18,500,000), on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that 
the Federation, EPBiH and EPM agree to undertake such obligations toward the 
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation and EPBiH part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to EPBiH on terms and conditions 
set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(C)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and the Federation and EPM part of the proceeds of the Credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to EPM on terms and conditions set 
forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Federation, EPBiH and EPM in consideration of the Association’s 
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to 
undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) The Federation, EPBiH and EPM declare their commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit 
Agreement, and, to this end, EPBiH shall carry out Part A and  relevant components 
under Part D.1 of  the Project, and EPM shall carry out Part C and relevent components 
under Part D.1 of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering, environmental, and technical 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and the Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall otherwise agree, 
the Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall carry out the Project in accordance with the PIP 
and the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule  to this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall carry out the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the Federation/EPBiH/EPM 
Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall duly perform all their 
obligations under the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the 
Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall not take or concur in any action which 
would have the effect of assigning, amending, abrogating or waiving the 
Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement, or the Federation/EPM Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. (a) The Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall, at the request of the 
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress of the 
Project, the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement or the Federation/EPM Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)
The Federation, EPBiH and EPM shall promptly inform the Association of 
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the 
Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by the 
Federation, EPBiH and EPM of their respective obligations under this Agreement and 
under the Federation/EPBiH Subsidiary Loan Agreement and the Federation/EPM Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EPBiH and EPM 
Section 3.01. EPBiH and EPM shall each carry on its operations and conduct its 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, environmental, engineering 
and technical practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EPBiH and EPM shall each at all times operate and maintain its 
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as 
needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
environmental, engineering, financial and technical practices.
Section 3.03. EPBiH and EPM shall each take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practice.
Page  3
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EPBiH and EPM shall each maintain records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and 
financial condition.
(b)
EPBiH and EPM shall each:
(i)
have its records, accounts, financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) and cash 
flow for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and financial statements as well as the audit 
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPBiH shall 
put into effect a billing and collection system resulting in the collection from its 
customers of at least one hundred and ten percent (110%), one hundred and 
forty-five-percent (145%), and one hundred and sixty-five percent (165%) of the total 
current cash operating expenses of EPBiH in calendar years 1998, 1999 and 2000, 
respectively. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "total current cash 
operating expenses" means all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, but 
excluding depreciation and interest and other charges on debt.
(b)
Before June 30 in each calendar year, EPBiH shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by EPBiH and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it 
would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the 
next following calendar year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such 
review upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EPBiH would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the calendar year covered by such review, EPBiH shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPM shall put 
into effect a billing and collection system resulting in the collection from its 
customers of at least one hundred fifty percent (150%), one hundred seventy percent 
(170%), and one hundred eighty-five percent (185%) of the total current cash operating 
expenses of EPM in calendar years 1998, 1999 and 2000, respectively. For the purposes 
of this paragraph, the term "total current cash operating expenses" means all expenses 
related to operations, including administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding depreciation and interest and other charges 
on debt.
(b)
Before June 30 in each calendar year, EPM shall, on the basis of 
forecasts prepared by EPM and satisfactory to the Association, review whether it would 
meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next 
following calendar year and shall furnish to the Association a copy of such review 
upon its completion.
(c)
If any such review shows that EPM would not meet the requirements set 
forth in paragraph (a) for the calendar year covered by such review, EPM shall 
promptly take all necessary measures (including, without limitation, adjustments of 
the structure or levels of its prices) in order to meet such requirements.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, EPBiH and EPM 
Page  4
shall each not incur any debt unless a reasonable forecast of the revenues and 
expenditures of EPBiH or EPM, as the case may be, shows that its estimated net 
revenues for each fiscal year during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at 
least 1.5 times its estimated debt service requirements in such year on all of its 
debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness maturing by its terms more 
than one year after the date on which it is originally incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of payment on the date of such contract, 
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement, on 
the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has been 
entered into.
(iii)
The term "net revenues" means the difference between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net non-operating income; and
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments in 
lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for depreciation, 
other non-cash operating charges and interest and other 
charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above.
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments (including sinking fund payment if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, debt.
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by EPBiH 
or EPM, as the case may be, not earlier than twelve months prior 
to the incurrence of the debt in question, which both the 
Association and EPBiH or the Association and EPM, as the case may 
be, accept as reasonable and as to which the Association has 
notified EPBiH or EPM, as the case may be, of its acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which 
has, or may reasonably be expected in the future to have, a 
material adverse effect on the financial condition or future 
operating results of EPBiH or EPM, as the case may be.
(vii)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other currency 
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis 
of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
the Federation, EPBiH and EPM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the 
following two dates:
Page  5
(i)
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate; or
(ii)
the date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified 
in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the 
Federation, EPBiH and EPM of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex, facsimile or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be 
given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such other addresses 
as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For the Federation:
Federation Ministry of Finance
Mehmeda Spahe 5
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
Federation Ministry
387 71 203 152
 of Finance
For Elektroprivreda Bosnia and Herzegovina:
EPBiH
Vilsonovo Setaliste 20
71000 Sarajevo
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
EPBiH
387 71 654 266
Sarajevo
or Elektroprivreda Mostar:
EP Mostar
Mile Budaka 106a
88000 Mostar
Bosnia and Herzegovina
Facsimile address:
Facsimile number:
EP Mostar
387 88 310 847
Page  6
Mostar
Section 6.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any 
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the 
Federation or by the Federation on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit 
Agreement, may be taken or executed by its Minister of Finance, or by such other 
person or persons as the Federation shall designate in writing, and the Federation 
shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the 
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
(b)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPBiH or by EPBiH on 
behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or 
executed by its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as EPBiH shall 
designate in writing, and EPBiH shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence 
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
(c)
Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EPM or by EPM on behalf 
of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by 
its General Manager, or by such other person or persons as EPM shall designate in 
writing, and EPM shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority 
and the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Saumya Mitra 
Authorized Representative
FEDERATION OF BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Ejup Ganic 
Authorized Representative
ELEKTROPRIVREDA BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Meho Obradovic 
Authorized Representative
ELEKTROPRIVREDA MOSTAR
By /s/ Mate Jurkovic 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Implementation Program
Page  7
1.
The Federation/EPBiH/EPM shall, at least until the completion of the Project, 
maintain Federation PIU with structure, functions and staffing satisfactory to the 
Association.
2.
The Federation shall:
(a)
by October 31, 1998, submit to its Parliament, a draft Electricity Law, 
based, inter alia, on recommendations in the Privatization Project Report (August 
1997);
(b)
by October 31, 1998, start to implement, in accordance with a time-table 
to be agreed with the Association, power sector restructuring and regulatory reform 
actions agreed with the Association;
(c)
(i) undertake and, by December 31, 1998, complete the electricity tariff 
study being funded by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development; (ii) 
furnish to the Association forthwith the said study upon completion and discuss with 
it the results and recommendations thereof; and (iii) thereafter take appropriate 
measures to implement, in accordance with a time-table agreed with the Association, 
the said recommendations taking into account the comments, if any, thereon by the 
Association; and
(d)
(i) undertake and, by March 31, 1999, complete a sector restructuring 
study for the Federation’s coal mining sector under terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association forthwith the said study upon 
completion and discuss with it the results and recommendations thereof; and (iii) 
thereafter take appropriate measures to implement, in accordance with a time-table 
agreed with the Association, the said recommendations taking into account the 
comments, if any, thereon by the Association.
3.
EPBiH shall:
(a)
reduce its total power distribution losses as a percentage of electricity 
entering the distribution system to 16% in 1999 and 12% in 2000, and thereafter 
maintain such losses below that level;
(b)
by July 30, 1998, establish, jointly with EPRS and EPM, under terms of 
reference, acceptable to the Association, and thereafter maintain an Electricity 
Coordinating Center, comprising such staff from EPBiH, EPRS and EPM and with such 
functions and powers as are deemed satisfactory by the Association, EPBiH, EPRS and 
EPM;
(c)
take appropriate measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation 
of a technically integrated  power system of BiH;
(d)
by October 31, 1998, trade electric power with EPRS and EPM on a 
commercial basis, using prices which cover the economic costs of the electricity 
traded (such costs to be calculated on the basis of a methodology acceptable to the 
Association) and which prices, depending on the cost estimates, may differ by time of 
day as well as season;
(e)
commencing June 30, 1998, make cash payments to Tuzla Coal Mines (RUT) 
and Central Bosnia Coal Mine (RUSB), within one month of the billing by them, covering 
at least 50% of the value (at prevailing coal prices) of the coal purchased; and
(f)
furnish to the Association by December 31, 1998, a revised Implementation 
Schedule for the Environmental Management Plans for the Tuzla and Kakanj thermal power 
stations, including sources of funding for proposed investments.
4.
EPM shall:
(a)
reduce its total power distribution losses as a percentage of electricity 
entering the distribution system to 16% in 1999 and 12% in 2000, and thereafter 
maintain such losses below that level;
(b)
by July 30, 1998, establish, jointly with EPBiH and EPRS, under terms of 
reference, acceptable to the Association, and thereafter maintain an Electricity 
Coordinating Center, comprising such staff from EPBiH, EPRS and EPM and with such 
functions and powers as are deemed satisfactory by the Association, EPBiH, EPRS and 
EPM;
Page  8
(c)
take appropriate measures to achieve safe, secure and economic operation 
of a technically integrated power system of BiH; and
(d)
by October 31, 1998, trade electric power with EPBiH and EPRS on a 
commercial basis, using prices which cover the economic costs of the electricity 
traded (such costs to be calculated on the basis of a methodology acceptable to the 
Association) and which prices, depending on the cost estimates, may differ by time of 
day as well as season.
