 IEG                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14649

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 06/26/2015

               Country: Iraq
             Project ID: P087910                                                     Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Iq-tf Emerg. Water,           Project Costs (US$M):                      90.45                104.2
                         Sanitation & Urban
  L/C Number:                                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                         90                  110
      Sector Board:        Water                       Cofinancing (US$M):

           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                             12/06/2004
                                                                Closing Date:         08/31/2007          06/30/2013
           Sector(s):      Water supply (58%); General transportation sector (23%); Sewerage (9%); Central
                           government administration (5%); Flood protection (5%)
          Theme(s):        Pollution management and environmental health (25% - P); Urban services and housing for
                           the poor (25% - P); Other human development (25% - P); Conflict prevention and
                           post-conflict reconstruction (25% - P)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                  Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Maha J. Armaly             Midori Makino           Christopher David           IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The Project Development Objective , as stated in the Grant Agreement (Schedule 2, p.10) is to: "restore basic water
supply, sanitation and urban services for urban areas outside the city of Baghdad through: (i) the reconstruction,
rehabilitation, and upgrading of such facilities and municipal infrastructure; and (ii) the provision of capacity building
support through training and technical assistance." (ICR p. 2)

The Technical Annex (p.9) states the Project Development Objective slightly differently than the Grant Agreement: "to
restore basic water supply, sanitation and urban services for urban areas outside the city of Baghdad through (i) the
construction and rehabilitation of existing facilities, and (ii) providing capacity building support through training and
technical assistance." In addition, the project would aim to improve the existing environmental and health conditions
by renewing the old water networks and sanitation services. It would contribute to the reduction of waterborne
diseases through the reduction of water supply by tankers and the provision of potable water and sanitation networks.
This would help improve the economic conditions of the population by reducing the amount of water obtained from
tankers, which was more expensive. The project would create vitally needed short-term employment and help build
Iraq's capacity to manage large-scale reconstruction.

This review is based on the Project Development Objective as stated in the Grant Agreement

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 The project components and related component costs estimated at appraisal, revised cost estimates (due to
additional financing and reallocation), and the actual cost estimate at project completion are: (Technical Annex p.
9-13)
Component 1: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Karbala Water and Sewerage Systems (appraisal cost estimate
US$16.34 million; revised cost estimate US$11.50 million, actual cost US$8.7 million). This component provides
adequate supply of potable water and effective sewerage services to the resident and visiting population of Karbala.
The component consisted of the rehabilitation of two treatment plants, part of the distribution network, and trunk and
lateral sewer lines. At project restructuring, the scope of the component was changed to be the rehabilitation and
upgrading of the sewer and storm networks in Saif Saad quarter in Karbala. At the same time, Component 10
(Karbala Urban Rehabilitation) was merged into this component.

Component 2: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Majar Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$3.16 million;
revised cost estimate US$2.15 million, actual cost US$2.6 million). The villages to be served were Mabroka and
Al-Yarmook that were considered to be two of the poorest villages in the Governorate. This component supplies the
combined population of 18,000 inhabitants with potable water through replacement of two water treatment units,
rehabilitation and extension of distribution networks, pumping stations and installation of about 3,000 house
connections.

Component 3: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Beji Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$1.83 million;
revised cost estimate US$0 million; actual cost US$8.3 million). The targeted villages are Abu To'ama and Hajaj, with
a combined population of about 16,000 inhabitants, considered to be two of the poorest villages in the Governorate of
Salah Al-Din. This component consists of replacement of two water treatment units, rehabilitation of distribution
networks and installation of about 2,000 house connections.

Component 4: Rehabilitation and Upgrading of Kena'an Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$1.89
million; revised cost estimate US$0 million, actual cost US$5.4 million). The component serves three villages that
were considered to be poorest villages in the Governorate of Diyala: Ezdihar, Hameed Al-Seba and Mohammed
Abbas, with a combined population of about 22,000. The component consists of replacement of three water treatment
units, rehabilitation of distribution networks and installation of about 2,700 house connections. At project restructuring,
this component was replaced with supply of goods for water supply systems in Diyala Governorate.

Component 5: Upgrading of Al Hussainia Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$7.60 million; revised cost
estimate US$16.82 million, actual cost US$18.9 million). This component serves one of the poorest cities in Baghdad
Governorate that had suffered from years of neglect, with a total population of about 135,000, of which more than 60%
do not have access to adequate water supply. The component increases the quantity, quality and access to potable
water while reducing the demand on Baghdad pipeline through supply and construction of a water intake, a raw water
transmission line, a water treatment plant consisting of five water treatments units, two- year's supply of spare parts,
and a distribution network including house connections.

Component 6: Upgrading of Al-Samawa Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$12.34 million; revised cost
estimate US$23.01 million, actual cost US$25.7 million). This component reduces water shortages in the cities of
Al-Samawa (population 196,000), Al-Khadir (population 86,000) and Al-Suwair (population 38,000) and in 10 large
villages along the potable water pipeline between Al-Rumaitha and Al-Samawa, with an estimated population of
44,000. It consists of supply and installation of 8 water treatment units, to cover part of the potable water shortage in
Al-Samawa and Al-Khadir, supply and installation of 25 km of a new water pipeline to both areas, a staging water
tank with capacity to serve Al-Khadir city, and rehabilitation and upgrading of three low lift pumps three high lift pumps
and a pumping station.

Component 7: Upgrading of Badawa Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$1.50 million; revised cost
estimate US$23.78 million, actual cost US$23.9 million). This component supports Badawa slum, Quarter 94, in Arbil
City where 6,000 thousand extremely poor families live (about 42,000 inhabitants). The component provides potable
water and sewerage services to the population of Badawa, and protected the water wells. The component includes
supply and installation of a water distribution network, drilling 10 wells, installing pump houses, storage tanks,
chlorinators and diesel generators. At project restructuring, Component 11 (Badawa Urban Rehabilitation) was
merged with this component.

Component 8: Upgrading of Dohuk Water Supply and Stormwater Drainage Systems (appraisal cost estimate
US$4.92 million; revised cost estimate US$0 million, actual cost US$0 million). This component extends the water
distribution network and storm water drainage system to a new development where the Governorate of Dohuk had
distributed 10,000 plots of land to poor and displaced families. This component was dropped at restructuring.

Component 9: Upgrading of Dukan Water Supply System (appraisal cost estimate US$4.48 million; revised cost
estimate US$0 million; actual cost US$0 million). This component addresses rehabilitation and upgrading of the
existing water supply system in Dukan: it includes the installation of a water supply system (distribution network,
pumps, reservoir tanks, etc.), the construction of intake works and the construction of a water treatment plant. This
component was dropped at restructuring.
Component 10: Karbala Urban Rehabilitation (appraisal cost estimate US$6.40 million; revised cost estimate US$ 2.0
million, actual cost US$0 million). This component involves (i) the rehabilitation of existing damaged streets and
squares, (ii) the rehabilitation of the traditional market (Bazaar) in Al-Abbas street; and (iii) an Environmental Impact
Assessment Study and design of a new municipal slaughterhouse. This component was merged with component 1 at
restructuring.

Component 11: Badawa Urban Rehabilitation (appraisal cost estimate US$7.76 million; revised cost estimate US$0
million; actual cost US$0 million). The component addresses the poverty stricken district of Badawa in south eastern
Arbil, and included (i) the construction of storm water network to collect and drain rainwater into the city trunk main,
and, (ii) upgrading of unpaved neighborhood roads and main streets. This component was merged with component 7
at restructuring.

Component 12: Basra Urban Rehabilitation (appraisal cost estimate US$7.78 million; revised cost estimate US$0
million; actual cost US$0 million). This component addresses the deteriorated condition of the main streets, the
unpaved internal streets, and the stagnant water pools due to the lack of storm water drainage in Al-Jamiaa
neighborhood west of Basra. The component provides for: (i) resurfacing of main streets, (ii) upgrading of
neighborhood internal dirt roads to paved roads, (iii) the construction of pedestrian sidewalks; and, (iv) construction of
a new storm water drainage network. This component was dropped at restructuring.

Component 13: Capacity Building and Technical Assistance (appraisal cost estimate US$3.50 million; revised cost
estimate US$6.91 million; actual cost US$10.7 million). This component includes: (a) consulting services to complete
final designs and tender documents; (b) consulting services for construction and implementation supervision; (c)
capacity building and training in specific technical areas; (d) design and implementation of appropriate accounting,
financial management, information, billing and collection, and related systems; (e) consulting services to assess
demand characteristics, cost of supply, demand management and tariff structures; (f) individual consultants to support
the Project Management Team; (g) international audits; (h) office equipment, vehicles, furniture and operation costs
for the Project Management Team; and, (i) feasibility studies and final designs for follow-up projects.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost. The cost of the project was initially estimated to be US$90.45 million. Additional financing of US$20
million was allocated from the Iraq Trust Fund in December 2006 (to accommodate the gap between appraisal
estimated costs and market prices realized as a result of bidding outcomes in Iraq (ICR p. 5). The total estimated
project cost of US$110.45 million. At closing the actual costs are estimated at about US$104.2 million.

Financing. The grant financed 100% of project expenditures except for US$0.45 million in project management
staffing. There were no co-financers.

Borrower contribution . At appraisal the Borrower planned to contribute US$0.45 million towards the cost of Iraqi staff
in the Project Management Team. The actual contribution as reported in the ICR is US$0.45 million equivalent or
100% of planned. The ICR (p. 5) indicates that the project did not document this in-kind contribution, and the actual
amount may be over the appraisal amount because the project ran longer than initially conceived and the staffing
costs continued to be borne by the Government.

Dates. The project was restructured four times, but none of these made a material difference to the measurement of
the overall outcome and thus IEG did not undertake a split evaluation:

2/27/2008: Changes were made to: (i) withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant (Schedule 1); (ii) description of the
Project (Schedule 2); (iii) performance indicators (Schedule 5) of the Grant Agreement. And (iv) the closing date was
extended to July 31, 2009 in order to complete the upgrading of Al-Hussainia Water Supply System which had
experienced delays due to unexpected design changes.

7/27/2009: Changes were made to reinstate project components which were cancelled in the February 2008
restructuring and to cancel Karbala Urban Rehabilitation component which was implemented by the Government
using its own funds. Changes were made to: (i) reallocation of grant proceeds (Schedule 1); (ii) description of the
project (Schedule 2); (iii) Performance Indicators (Schedule 5) of the Grant Agreement; and (iv) the closing date was
extended to December 2009.

12/21/2011: Changes were made due to a different situation in the water resource environment in Kena'an (water
source depletion). A works contract was converted into a goods contract to improve reliability of water supply
services, resulting in changes to: (i) project costs; (ii) reallocation of grant proceeds; (iii) results framework - the
indicator associated with Kena'an was dropped and new indicator for beneficiaries was added; (iv) the closing date
was extended to December 2011.
2/25/2013: Changes made were: (i) indicators in the result framework of the project were revised to include the
sector core indicators to better reflect project outcomes; (ii) reallocation of trust fund proceeds to facilitate project
implementation; and (iii) the closing date was extended to June 30, 2013.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
The relevance of objectives is substantial. The Project objective is relevant to the first Bank Interim Strategy for Iraq
dated January 14, 2004 (p. 10) at the time of Project preparation. One of the main aims of the strategy supported by
the Project was to restore essential infrastructure services by implementing emergency operations to address local
needs.

The project objective remains substantially relevant to the Government and Bank priorities as outlined in the Country
Strategy Paper (CSP FY13-16) dated November 13, 2012. In 2010, the Government prepared the National
Development Plan 2010-2014, a medium-term development strategy aimed at providing a framework for the country's
sustainable development, focusing on environmentally sensitive economic and social development using available
natural resources in a sustainable way. It also aimed to strengthen the role of local governments to bring service
delivery and economic development closer to the people (CSP page i). The overarching objective of the World Bank
Group engagement is to support the country’s efforts to build stronger government institutions and a more diversified
and regionally integrated economy that can deliver services and create jobs through three pillars (1) improving
governance; (2) supporting economic diversification for broadly shared prosperity; and (3) improving social inclusion
and reducing poverty. (CSP p. 19). In focusing on the poorest towns of the Governorates served, the Project
contributed to the objective of improving social inclusion and reducing poverty.

 b. Relevance of Design:
The relevance of design is substantial. The design aimed to improve services to specific areas with poor and
deteriorating infrastructure through investments in upgrading and renewal. This in turn would improve service delivery
to the population. The activities and components supported by the project are directly linked to achieving the stated
objectives.

Since the effectiveness of Government agencies to meet the day-to-day needs of water for domestic and agricultural
use and the collection and treatment of waste-water had been poor, leading to serious environmental and health risks
associated with contaminated water supplies and inappropriate handling of waste-water disposal (CSP p. 11-12), the
component related to capacity building was highly relevant for strengthening the effectiveness of the Government and
sector agencies in delivering the required services to the customers.

The results chain in the results framework was initially designed to be simple to correspond to Iraq’s security situation,
and aimed at measuring progress of work with less emphasis on outcome. It was adapted at later stages to measure
outcome.


 4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
   The objective statement in both the Grant Agreement and in the Technical Annex refers to the restoration of; (i)
water supply; (ii) sanitation, and (iii) urban services, by defining the corresponding outcome and output indicators
without making any explicit reference to relative weight of the objectives. Therefore, all three objectives are assumed
as equally important for this project.

Overall Outcome: 1,030,718 beneficiaries vs. 1,000,000 revised number of beneficiaries and 2,000,000 original
planned number of beneficiaries.

Objective 1: Restore basic water supply services - Substantial

Outputs:
- Water supply production capacity increased to 9,895 m3/hour. The achieved water production capacity was slightly
below the target value of 10,000 m3/hour.
- 372 km of water supply network were rehabilitated
- 276 months of training (mainly in fiduciary and safeguards – by Bank staff) vs. 300 months of training planned to
include other technical training.

Outcomes
- 676,276 people benefitted from new or improved water supply vs. 600,000 planned (this was listed both as output
and outcome indicator in the last restructuring).
- 23,503 households provided with water connections
- 73,108 households provided with access to rehabilitated water distribution.

Objective 2: Restore basic sanitation services - Modest

Outputs
- 2,061 new sewerage connections were installed
- 20.3 km of sewerage network was installed
- 276 months of training (mainly in fiduciary and safeguards – by Bank staff) vs. 300 months of training planned to
include other technical training.

No baseline or target data available

Outcomes
- 14,442 people benefitted from sewerage extension

Objective 3: Restore basic urban services - Modest

Outputs
- 28 km of roads were completed.
- 276 months of training (mainly in fiduciary and safeguards – by Bank staff) vs. 300 months of training planned to
include other technical training.

Outcome:
- Total of 340,000 people benefitted of which:
- 190,000 people were provided with storm water drainage
- 150,000 people were provided with access to improved roads

Outcome baseline and target data are available only for the water supply component. The target for water supply in
terms of beneficiaries was surpassed (676,276 people vs. 600,000 planned), and is rated substantial. Other
components have no baseline or targets outcomes and are rated modest.

 5. Efficiency:
   Due to the emergency nature of the Project (prepared under OP 8.50 emergency operations), quantitative
economic analysis was not undertaken at appraisal. An overall qualitative justification is provided in the Technical
Annex based on improvements in health and environment due to clean water and proper discharge of sewage. Other
productivity benefits due to health improvements are also mentioned (Technical Annex, p. 20).

The ICR reiterates the qualitative benefits mentioned at appraisal, and notes the limitations of undertaking a
quantitative analysis due to lack of initial data. The following assumptions are made: operational costs at 5% of
capital costs (- while the footnote refers to large inefficiencies and low staff productivity), number of beneficiaries as
per the indicators, and the “government’s standard of providing 350 l/c/d (which is high by international design
standards) and a 90% waste-water flow. The ICR arrives at the following conclusions (ICR p. 17,18):
For Water Supply Investments:
- The [net] present value of the total cost per person served over the lifetime of the project of 25 years is
US$22.51;
- The [net] present value of the cost of water supplied is US$0.176 per cubic meter;
- Consumers before rehabilitation were relying on tankers and were reportedly spending 20 percent of their family
income on water. In such a context, the cost benefit ratio - even before taking into consideration any externalities - is
positive;
- The ICR concludes that this investment is cost-effective if compared to an average price of water supply
infrastructure of US$1.06 as mentioned in the literature.

Other municipal investments:
- The [net] present value of the total cost per person served over the lifetime of the investment of 25 years is
US$18.73;
- The ICR concludes that the cost benefit ratio - even before taking into consideration any externalities – is likely to be
positive.

The ICR efficiency analysis lacks sufficient robustness and clarity. The project suffered delays, was extended five
times for a total of just about six years. Several components were dropped and their funding was reallocated to other
components. Cost differences between appraisal estimates and actual costs by component varied from about half to
about 7 times. Most, except for two components, exceeded appraisal costs substantially. The ICR, p. 13, lists several
sub-projects that were not completed by the closing date. Given the lack of direct attribution of benefits to the
situation of the project in Iraq, extensive delays, incomplete sub-projects, and increased costs, the efficiency of the
project is rated as modest.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        No
    ICR estimate                     No
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
    The relevance of the objective and that of design are both rated substantial. Efficacy for one of the three objectives
is rated substantial, and that for the remaining two are rated modest primarily due to lack of evidence stemming from
absent baseline and target indicators. Efficiency is rated as modest. There were significant shortcomings in the
project's achievement of it's outcome, and therefore the overall outcome is rated moderately unsatisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  The risk to development outcome is high. Substantial risks to the development outcome include:

(a) political risks given the continued strife in Iraq;
(b) poor government ownership resulting from the political risks as well as from modest commitment of the
Government to address issues that arose during the Project, including staffing of the Project Management Team;
(c) technical risks inherent to the Project such as the incomplete works and lack of technical expertise, and
(d) institutional risks inherent to the sector such as lack of reform and the unsustainable tariffs.

The likelihood of these risks occurring is high and their potential impact on the development outcome of the Project is
negative if no concrete action is taken. Overall, the ICR, p. 13, states: the likelihood that these works are not
completed, or that completed works are not operated and maintained in a satisfactory manner, or that improvements
in water services received by beneficiaries are not maintained, is high.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    The Project was prepared in about 10 months under OP 8.50 for emergency operations, which gives leeway in
the readiness for implementation aspects of the Project. Nevertheless, except for the economic analysis and full
environmental assessments of all 12 sub-projects, the Technical Annex provided sufficient details on the
readiness of the Project in terms of: (a) the content of the project components, (b) identification of risks, (c)
scheduling of implementation, and (d) fiduciary and safeguard coverage. Annex 10 of the Technical Annex on
Safeguards Assessments provided sufficient details and guidance on how to undertake environmental
assessment including, social impact, land acquisition, and cultural property protection. This was done against a
background of the difficult security situation in Iraq, the Bank’s relative novice experience in the country, Iraq’s
very limited experiences with the Bank, and the complexity of the fiduciary and safeguard issues involved.

The Project was fairly ambitious in covering a large part of the country, but that was designed to provide coverage
to as many sections of the Iraqi population as possible. The project components gave clarity as to the substantial
extent to which attention was given to reach the poorest sections of the population. There were 13 original
components – explaining the geographic locations. Given the complexity of the Project and the fact that it was
prepared under emergency operations (6.5 months), complete feasibility studies were not likely to have been
available.

The main shortcomings in project preparation are: (a) the original implementation schedule of 3 years was overly
optimistic and unrealistic even in normal circumstances; (b) the original monitoring included up to 19 indicators,
but baselines and targets were not set, and institutional arrangements for M&E were not in place. In the context of
the emergency situation and the large and immediate needs to restart critical infrastructure services, these
shortcomings were acceptable at the time.

The project underwent a Quality at Entry Assessment by the Quality Assurance Group in 2004-05. The Panel
considered the overall quality of project preparation to be Satisfactory. The Panel mentioned the following strong
aspects of the project: (i) Bank's post conflict experience and (ii) even without the ability to travel in-country, the
task team had done sufficient work in the environmental area by providing training to develop institutional
capacity.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The Project was implemented in very difficult circumstances that did not allow for normal supervision to take
place. The Bank hired a third party to undertake the supervision of the fiduciary aspects of the Project, which the
ICR judges as relatively successful (in terms of financial management and site inspections). Serious efforts were
dedicated to keeping progress on the physical works in very difficult and unsafe circumstances. Bank supervision
missions took place regularly and responsibilities were shared between headquarters and field staff. The Bank
team was proactive in adjusting to the critical changes on the grounds in terms of (a) obtaining additional
financing; (b) restructuring; (c) extending closing dates, (d) changes in the monitoring indicators, and (e)
according to the ICR, providing training. According to the ICR, p. 20, the Bank team invested significantly in
supervision support to deal with the capacity gaps and constantly provided on-the-job advice with field staff
providing continuous support. On the other hand, the Borrower’s final report indicates that communications with
the Bank were not always optimal and their need for technical advice and training was not satisfied.

The Bank’s shortcomings in supervision, which were often outside of the direct control of the Bank's task team
were; (a) frequent changes to project scope and extensions of closing dates which required long administrative
steps with unknown impact on the project; and (b) delayed adjustments to the indicators which continued to lack
targets. In addition, the ICR, p. 20, indicates that there are significant concerns about adhering to environmental
requirements and shortcomings in the Bank’s supervision of this aspect.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The Government as represented by the Ministry of Municipalities and Public Works was committed to the
Project and its objectives as part of its National Development Strategy and to its reconstruction efforts. The
Government was not familiar with Bank operations and requirements, or dealing with foreign consultants and
contractors after years of war and embargo in Iraq. As a result, the Government did not provide adequate
resources to the Project Management Team or take full advantage of resources available in the loan to obtain
training and capacity building. The Ministry did not provide the implementing agency with incentives to retain staff
or to efficiently implement the Project. The Ministry delayed the hiring of the environmental and legal staff which
led to difficulties in enforcing contracts and safeguard requirements. As a result, the Project management Team
was not capable of overcoming the administrative and bureaucratic constraints (ICR p. 20).

   Government Performance Rating                                 Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project Management Team within the Ministry of Municipalities and Public Works was responsible for
project implementation. The Project Management Team was committed to the Project, was working under
extremely difficult conditions, including suffering from the violence (bombing) of the Iraq war. On top of the difficult
security environment, the Project Management Team operated under administrative and bureaucratic constraints
that were beyond its authority that impeded its efforts to implement the Project efficiently. Staff turnover was high
and incentives to retain staff were either weak or non-existent. According to the ICR p. 21, the staff seconded to
the Project Management Team was performing two jobs without adequate compensation which caused strain,
drop in morale, lack of effectiveness, and staff turnover, directly impacting implementation. Environmental and
legal staff were not hired which led to difficulties in enforcing contracts and in safeguard compliance.
Shortcomings in contractor and consultant management were pervasive. Inefficient contract management (weak
monitoring of contract implementation, belated extension of closing date, erratic payment of invoices, etc.)
generated significant uncertainty and cash flow problems for contractors.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    A simplified monitoring and evaluation framework was included in project design which relied on project
supervision reports, mid-term review reports and annual implementation progress reports to monitor and evaluate
progress. Staffing and measures to undertake M&E were loosely defined at appraisal. Consultants and a monitoring
agent were expected to work with the Ministry on M&E. Given the emergency nature of the Project, the QAG noted
the indicators as simple and adequacy of arrangements for monitoring and evaluation to be "satisfactory".

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation of M&E proved difficult, and several changes were introduced, which added to the complexity of the
M&E framework and to the difficulty of appropriately undertaking the monitoring and measurement. The
implementation teams focused primarily on the physical progress of works. Dedicated M&E staff was not available in
the Project Management Team for most of the duration of the project. Physical progress was monitored but outputs
and outcomes were not accounted for during implementation. Project restructuring of February 2013, focused on
revising the indicators in the results framework to include sector core indicators to better reflect project outcomes but
target value were left as "to be determined”. In the last six months of the project a dedicated M&E specialist was
recruited, the results framework was restructured to better account for outcomes, and efforts were made to collect and
review data with the Bank in preparation of the Implementation Completion Report.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   Data was collected with the objective to comply with World Bank requirement for monitoring the projects
implementation progress. At the end of the Project, the newly hired Project Management Team staff engaged in M&E
to provide data for the ICR and for “post project support” (ICR p. 21).

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Environment: The project triggered OP 4.01 and was classified as Category B (Partial Assessment) at appraisal.
Investments were related to civil works without significant impact to the environment. All sub-projects/investment
component were processed in accordance with the Environmental and Social Safeguards Assessment Framework for
Iraq (which was disclosed in English through the InfoShop) and was fairly detailed and comprehensive. Throughout
the project implementation period with the exception of the initial years, environmental Safeguards were rated
"Moderately Satisfactory" but six months before the project completion, it was downgraded to“Moderately
Unsatisfactory" because: (i) a dedicated consultant was not hired by Project Management Team to monitor
environmental safeguard and act as Safeguard Focal Point to the Project Management Team; (ii) significant concerns
were raised regarding compliance with, and enforcement of, all requirements under the Bank's Environmental and
Social Screening Assessment Framework; and (iii) unsatisfactory enforcement of public health safety procedures for
workers. Environmental safeguard monitoring compliance was not always reported in the mission records.

International Waters : The Bank's policy on International Waterways (OP 7.50) was triggered. The project was drawing
intake water from both the Tigris and Euphrates and their tributaries. At appraisal it was determined that the project
fell within the exception to notification requirement of the policy and a "no objection" was obtained from the Regional
Vice President to this effect. Compliance with this policy was considered Satisfactory as no issues were raised during
implementation.
Social: The ICR states that at appraisal, Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) was not trigged. It was anticipated that
land acquisition and resettlement would be kept to a minimum and all land acquisition would be carried out in
accordance with the guidelines set forth in the ESSAF for Iraq. Annex 10 of the Technical Annex is dedicated to
safeguards and states that sub-projects involving involuntary resettlement or land acquisition will only be approved
after preparation of a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank (Technical Annex p. 76). The ICR indicates that
technical specifications in contracts included provisions to provide unimpeded public access through diversions during
project construction. The project team indicated that works were on existing structures, and no land acquisition or
related issues were reported.

Cultural Property: The ICR does not report on Cultural Property (OP4.11). Annex 10 of the Technical Annex, p. 76
indicates that even though extensive earthworks are not anticipated, sub-projects will be reviewed for their impact on
cultural property, and clear procedures will be required for safeguarding finds. The project team indicated that no
finds were reported.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: According to the ICR, procurement implementation was a major factor in implementation delays.
Nationally in Iraq there were some non-compliant procurement procedures and practices in place. Bank procedures
were applied and training was provided to the Project Management Team by the Bank. The ICR reports extensively
on delays and problems in contract execution and management due to security, lack of management skills at the
Project Management Team among others.

Financial Management: The ICR indicates that the Fiduciary Monitoring Agent was employed to help ensure
compliance with fiduciary requirements. Initially, the project suffered from frequent turnover of Project Management
Team staff which added to the lack of understanding of World Bank guidelines, inaccurate accounting records,
significant delays in replenishing expenditures from the World Bank, and delays in reconciling project records with the
World Bank Client Connection. The frequent moves of the Project Management Team office within the Ministry of
Municipalities and Public Works further exacerbated the problem as data files kept on moving. The overall
performance of the financial management team improved during the later stages of project implementation as Project
Management Team familiarity with Bank procedures increased. The ICR does not report on the engagement of an
external auditor, or on receipt and opinions of audits. The project team indicated that all audit reports were received
and were unqualified.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                             ICR                  IEG Review                   Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Moderately               Moderately             While both relevance of objective and
                              Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory         design are substantial, efficiency is
                                                                              modest and efficacy for two of the three
                                                                              objectives are modest.
          Risk to Development High                     High
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Moderately               Moderately             Frequent changes to project scope and
                              Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory         extensions of closing dates required
                                                                              long administrative steps, leading to
                                                                              poor efficiency. Delayed adjustments to
                                                                              the targets made it difficult to assess
                                                                              the efficacy of the objectives.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately               Moderately             The Ministry of Municipalities and
                              Satisfactory             Unsatisfactory         Public Works did not provide the
                                                                              necessary environment for the Project
                                                                              Management Team to undertake the
                                                                              project making the performance of both
                                                                                 entities moderately unsatisfactory.

                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

 13. Lessons:
  The ICR acknowledges the peculiarities of working in a conflict situation in the lessons learned including: (i) high
costs; (ii) tradeoff between risk mitigation measures and speed of implementation; and (iii) the difficulties of
designing and implementing a rigorous M&E results framework.

The following lessons are drawn from the ICR:
(a)       Delivering measurable outcomes in conflict situations is complex, and calls for a focus on priorities,
simplified indicators and monitoring, and avoidance of excessive bureaucracy.
(b)       Emergency project, prepared quickly with less rigorous preparation, would benefit from revisiting project
design in the early stages of implementation to finalize loose ends, such as the M&E framework, scheduling, and
other arrangements.
(c)       Bank intervention in rebuilding following a conflict is likely to support returning a semblance of normalcy to
the lives of affected people, yet conflicts have severe impact on project progress and outcome and require high
commitment from the government and communities.
(d)        Capacity needs in new borrowing countries - out or in conflict - are large and extend to technical and
managerial skills which can be assessed and addressed at appraisal or as soon as implementation begins.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR attempts to give this complicated Project a clear picture of the difficult progress and several changes in
components and indicators which makes the analysis complex. It includes good sections of candid discussions (e.g.
implementation, M&E, safeguards, and risks to DO).

However, the ICR appears to be written in a rush without due attention to proof reading and editing leading to
inconsistent or unclear information. The shortcomings are acute in the different descriptions of the progress, costs,
and changes that occurred during the Project implementation. Overall, the ratings are optimistic and not well
substantiated with concrete evidence.
(i)       There are differences among (a) the description of the Project components (not clearly articulating or
enumerating changes in the components) (ICR p. 5-1). Component description is not taken from the Technical Annex,
(b) Project Costs and Financing differ in the Table in Annex 1 p. 24 from the costs provided in the more detailed
description of the components and their progress in Annex 2 p. 27 – 35. Revised costs mentioned in Annex 2 (and
not included in Section 1.5) as “additional financing” leaving the reader unclear whether this is revised costs or
additional funds allocated to the components. Footnotes appear to have been left unintentionally. There is
inconsistency in the Environmental Category: the data sheet indicates a C category, while p. 12 of the ICR and the
Technical Annex indicate that the category is B. The ICR statements on land acquisition and cultural properties do
not match those in the Technical Annex leading to incorrect review of these items.
 (ii)     The ICR does not report appropriately on the procurement process and financial management issues. The
Procurement section discusses the problems with procurement in Iraq and does not address procurement in the
Project. Financial management reported on staffing, disbursements and Intermediate Financial Reports without
mentioning audit reports or other aspects of financial management.
(iii)  The efficiency section lacks clarity and the analysis is not robust. There are references to net present value of
costs instead of present value of costs or a net present value (of costs and benefits).
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
