                        Document of
                     The World Bank


                                                  Report No: ME 74638




                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                           ON A

            PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING

                         OF THE

ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3 - MONTENEGRO

                         PROJECT

                     CREDIT 4351-MOT

           (BOARD APPROVAL DATE: JULY 06, 2007)

                            TO


              THE REPUBLIC OF MONTENEGRO




                      January 30, 2013
                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


APL     Adaptable Program Loan
ECSEE   Energy Community of South East Europe
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
OPGW    Optical Ground Wires




         Regional Vice President:     Philippe Le Houerou
         Country Director:            Gerard Byam
         Sector Manager / Director:   Ranjit Lamech/Laszlo Lovei
         Task Team Leader:            Gazmend Daci
                               MONTENEGRO
          ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3 - MONTENEGRO
                                  P106899
                              CREDIT 4351-MOT


                                         Restructuring Paper


1.      The Closing Date for the Energy Community of South East Europe APL3 - Montenegro Project
will be extended from March 31, 2013, until September 30, 2013. The proposed extension is necessary
to complete the following remaining subtasks: (i) connecting Montenegro’s telecommunication system
to that of Kosovo and installing the telecommunication system to the remaining internal 220-110 kV
transmission lines; and (ii) extension of the Mojkovac substation and connection line with transmission
system.

2.       The project has been progressing well since effectiveness; however delays occurred in the last
year. All issues have been resolved and the project is back on track. On Component 1:
Telecommunications System Development, installation of OPGW cables to Bosnia and Herzegovina and
Serbia has been completed and communication links with two neighboring dispatch centers are
operational. The internal telecommunication system has improved significantly through the installation
of OPGW on transmission line and installation of 21 telecommunication units in substations. These
were the activities originally envisaged under this component in the PAD. However, through a
Restructuring on April 7, 2011 due to savings incurred, the component was expanded to enable
connection to the Kosovo telecommunication system and to extend the internal telecommunication
system. This additional task is taking longer than anticipated due to delays encountered with ICB
procurement for the OPGW cable and associated equipment and services. In addition, delays occurred
with the selection of installation contractors (financed with counterpart funds) due to changes in the
local procurement law and a contract was only signed in September 2012. Work is now underway but
could be delayed in the north due to inclement weather in the winter. Therefore, the schedule has slipped
and additional time is needed to complete this task by July 2013. On Component 2: Transmission
Network Reinforcement, the Andrijevica Substation has been completed and is in operation. While all
goods were delivered and contracts signed for works, land expropriation issues took almost a year to get
resolved for the Mojkovac Substation. A work permit was finally obtained in June 2012, and work
started in July 2012, but can only be completed by July 2013, after which additional time will be needed
for testing and commissioning for the Mojkovac Substation to become fully operational. Component 3:
Improvement of Operational Reliability of Perucica Hydropower Plant has been completed and new
runner and new trash rack and cleaning machine are fully in operation.

3.     The requirements of OP/BP 13.30 have been met, namely: (i) the project objectives continue to
be achievable; (ii) the performance of the Borrower is Satisfactory; and (iii) the Borrower has prepared
a specific action plan acceptable to the Bank to complete the project within the proposed extended
timeframe, i.e. September 30, 2013.

4.     This will be the second extension of the project, resulting in a cumulative period of 18 months
from the original Closing Date of March 31, 2012. The first extension extended the Project by one year
to March 31, 2013. Disbursement is currently at 85%. There are no outstanding audits. No new
safeguard policies will be triggered and there are no changes to the environmental assessment Category
B.
