                           Document of
                       The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR3012



     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                      (IDA-43510)



                             ON A

                           CREDIT

             IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 6.0 MILLION
                (US$ 9.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                              TO

                        MONTENEGRO

                           FOR AN

ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3-MONTENEGRO
                       PROJECT

  IN SUPPORT OF THE THIRD PHASE OF THE US$ l, OOO MILLION

 ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE (APL) PROGRAM



                        March 12, 2014



               Sustainable Development Department
                 South East Europe Country Unit
                 Europe and Central Asia Region




                               i
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                  (Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2013)
                               Currency Unit = Euro
                              Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.3522
                              US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.7395
                 Fiscal Year in Montenegro ends on 31 December

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
APL         Adaptable Program Loan
BiH         Bosnia Herzegovina
CAS / CPS   Country Assistance Strategy / Country Partnership Strategy
CGES        Crnogorski Elektroprenosni Sistem AD (Transmission Company)
COTEE       Crnogorski Operator Tržišta Električne Energije (Market Operator)
EAR         European Agency for Reconstruction
EC          Energy Community
EIRR        Economic Internal Rate of Return
EMP         Environment Management Plan
ENTSO-E     European Network of Transmission System Operators of Electricity
EPCG        ElectroPriveda Crna Gora
ERA         Energy Regulatory Authority of Montenegro
EU          European Union
GWh         Giga Watt hour (one million kWh)
HPP         Hydropower Plant
HVDC        High Voltage Direct Current
IDA         International Development Agency
ISR         Implementation Status Report
KAP         Aluminum Smelter Company of Montenegro
kV / kWh    Kilo Volt / Kilo Watt Hour
LAPF        Land Acquisition Policy Framework
MW / MWh    Mega Watt / Mega Watt Hour (1000 kWh)
O&M         Operation and Maintenance
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
QAG         Quality Assurance Group
QER         Quality at Entry Review by QAG
SEE         South East Europe
SFR         Self Financing Ratio
TSO         Transmission System Operator
UCTE        Union for the Coordination of Transmission of Electricity
UNMIK       United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo
VAT         Value Added Tax

                           Vice President: Laura Tuck (ECA)
                         Country Director: Ellen Goldstein
                          Sector Manager: Ranjit Lamech (ECSSD)
                     Project Team Leader: Gazmend Daci (ECSSD)
                        ICR Team Leader: Gazmend Daci (ECSSD)




                                          ii
                         MONTENEGRO
    ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3-MONTENEGRO
                           PROJECT


                                                    CONTENTS
Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 11
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 16
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 17
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 18
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 22
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 23
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 30
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 31
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 32
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 33
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 37
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 38
  Annex 10. Availability of, and annual generation from, the units of Perucica HPP….39
  MAP




                                                             iii
 
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Energy Community of
Country:                Montenegro              Project Name:             South East Europe APL 3 -
                                                                          Montenegro Project
Project ID:             P106899                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA-43510
ICR Date:               March 12, 2014          ICR Type:                 Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:                 MONTENGRO
Original Total
                        XDR 6.00M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 5.82M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 6.00M
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies: ElektroPrivreda Crne Gore (EPCG) and
Crno Gorski Elektroprenosni Sistem AD (CGES)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                 Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process           Original Date
                                                                                     Date(s)
Concept Review:       02/01/2006     Effectiveness:          01/28/2008              01/28/2008
                                                                               Restructuring 1 April
                                                                                     7, 2011
Appraisal:            04/10/2006     Restructuring(s):
                                                                                 Restructuring 2
                                                                                January 30, 2013
Approval:             07/06/2007     Mid-term Review:        06/15/2009              07/15/2009
                                     Closing:                03/31/2012              09/30/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                 Ratings                 Borrower            Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:      Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
                                                Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
                        Moderately Satisfactory                  Moderately Satisfactory
Performance:                                    Performance:



                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                               Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
                                                   Quality at Entry
Potential Problem Project
                          No                       (QEA):                  Satisfactory
at any time (Yes/No):
                                                   March 16, 2006
                                                   Quality of
 Problem Project at any
                           Yes                     Supervision (QSA):      Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):
                                                   April 2010
DO rating before           Moderately
Closing/Inactive status:   Satisfactory

D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Hydropower                                                            19                   9
Transmission and Distribution of Electricity                          81                  91


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Infrastructure services for private sector development                50                    50
Regional integration                                                  50                    50

E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                              At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Ellen Goldstein                      Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Manager:            Ranjit Lamech                        Peter Thomson
Project Team Leader:       Gazmend Daci                         Husam Beides
ICR Team Leader:           Gazmend Daci
ICR Primary Author:        Venkataraman Krishnaswamy


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The objective of ECSEE APL is the development of a functioning regional electricity
market in South East Europe and its integration into the internal electricity market of the
European Union.




                                                ii
Within the overall ECSEE APL objectives/context, the objective of the ECSEE APL3-
Montenegro Project is to improve the efficiency and reliability of the power system in
Montenegro, through better supply security and closer integration into the regional
markets.

 The ECSEE APL 3 - Montenegro Project consists of the following components:

 I. Telecommunications System Development
 II. Transmission Network Reinforcement
 III. Improvement of Operational Reliability of Perucica HPP

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)
                                                    Original Target      Formally
                                                      Values (from        Revised       Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator               Baseline Value
                                                        approval           Target      Completion or Target Years
                                                       documents)          Values
                    Electricity market in SEE is liberalized in accordance with EC treaty (including derogations and
Indicator 1
                    subsequent modifications, if any) and a regional electricity market functioning
                                                  All non-residential                All non-residential consumers
                                                  (NR) consumers to                  liberalized on target by
     Value
                                                  be liberalized by                  Montenegro and all consumers
 (quantitative or             negligible
                                                  07/01/2008 and all                 will be liberalized by
   qualitative)
                                                  consumers by                       01/01/2015 based on the Energy
                                                  01/01/2015                         Law of 2010
                                                  07/01/2008 (NR)
 Date achieved                   2005                                                07/01/2008 (NR)
                                                  01/01/2015 (all)
                    Achievement 100%. Liberalization is being achieved on target in Montenegro. The share of the
                    non-residential consumers was about 62% of the total consumption in 2012. Such liberalization
Comments
                    has taken place in varying degrees in other SEE countries (Annual Report 2013 of the EC
(including %
                    secretariat). Sector unbundling has been substantially completed and regional electricity trading
achieved)
                    is taking place. Independent regulatory body had been established in Montenegro since 2005.
                    Such bodies exist in most SEE countries.
                    The integration of the Montenegrin power system in the regional electricity market is improved
Indicator 2
                    through the establishment of a modern telecommunication network and
                                                  All three phases of                All three phases were
                                                  the component to be                completed except for some very
     Value          No modern                     completed and                      minor items. Telecom links to
 (quantitative or   telecommunication network communication links                    BiH and Serbia are operational.
   qualitative)     in Montenegro                 to two adjoining                   A new link to Kosovo has also
                                                  countries become                   been constructed up to the
                                                  operational                        border with Kosovo.
 Date achieved                   2005             3/31/2012              9/30/2013 9/30/2013




                                                      iii
                    Achievement is 100%. A modern telecommunication system is fully operational greatly
                    improving the operation of the sector and its integration into the regional market. Even the
Comments
                    pending minor works were completed in 2013. Apart from the two planned regional links to
(including %
                    BiH and Serbia, a link to Kosovo has also been completed within the borders of Montenegro. It
achieved)
                    would be operational in August 2014 when Kosovo completes its work in its territory under
                    KfW financing.
                    Transmission network in the subproject areas reinforced to reduce outages and consequent
Indicator 3
                    unserved energy
                    Andrijevica SS:                                                   Andrijevica SS:
                    Outages 31                                                        Outages 5
     Value
                     unserved energy 371 GWh Unserved energy to                        unserved energy 59 GWh
 (quantitative or
                    Mojkovac SS:                   be reduced by 50%                  Mojkovac SS:
   qualitative)
                    Outages 16                                                        Operational only since August
                    Unserved energy 291 GWh                                           1, 2013
 Date achieved                   2005               2010                              2012
                    Achievement is partial (about 80%). Andrijevica SS became operational on September 2011. Its
Comments            outages had since been less than 50% of the 2005 outages. Its unserved energy level was also
(including %        less than the target level. However, Mojkovac SS became operational only on 08/01/2013 and
achieved)           the results will have to be reviewed in the course of the next two years or so. See also the
                    discussion in Section 3.2 of the ICR and Annex 3 on the appropriateness of these indicators.
                    Improvement of the operational reliability of HPP Perucica through replacement of its trash
Indicator 4
                    rack and trash rack cleaning system and providing spare turbine runner(s)
                                                   Annual O&M
                    Trash Rack system              expenditure to be
     Value
                    O&M cost Euro 105,000          reduced by 75 % for                Consistent data is not available
 (quantitative or
                    Turbine runner                 the trash rack system              on O&M costs for such items
   qualitative)
                    O&M cost Euro 14,500           and by 20% for the
                                                   turbine runner(s)
 Date achieved                   2007              2010                               09/30/2013
                    Achievement is considered partial (about 80%). Works have been completed successfully by
Comments            end 2009 (trash rack system) and by September 2011 (turbine runners) and the facilities are
(including %        functioning very well. However EPCG had not been able to provide consistent O&M data.
achieved)           Quality Assurance Group suggested that reduction in the down time of the HPP station be
                    considered. See discussion in Section 3.2 of the ICR and Annex 3.

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                               Original Target Formally
                                                                              Actual Value Achieved at
                                                Values (from       Revised
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                         Completion or Target
                                                  approval          Target
                                                                                        Years
                                                 documents)         Values
  Indicator 1       Progress in the implementation of transmission system reinforcement
     Value
 (quantitative or               0%                       100%                                     100%
   qualitative)
  Date achieved             07/06/2007                07/06/2010        09/30/2013             09/30/2013




                                                       iv
                    Achievement is 100% but with delays. Andrijevica related sub-component was
Comments
                    completed and the substation became operational on September 2011. Mojkovac related
(including %
achieved)           works were completed and the substation became operational in August 2013. Credit
                    Closing Date was extended to enable such completion.
                                               Original Target Formally
                                                Values (from      Revised Actual Value Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value
                                                  approval        Target Completion or Target Years
                                                 documents)       Values
  Indicator 2       Progress in the implementation of HPP Perucica reliability improvement
     Value
 (quantitative or             0%                   100%                               100%
   qualitative)
  Date achieved             07/06/2007           07/06/2010                        09/30/2011
Comments            Achievement is 100% but somewhat delayed. Replacement of Trash Rack and Trash
(including %        Rack cleaning system was completed by December 2009, but the installation of the
achieved)           turbine runner was completed by September 2011

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

          Date ISR                                                            Actual Disbursements
 No.                                DO                        IP
          Archived                                                               (USD millions)
  1      12/21/2007           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  2      04/17/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       0.00
  3      12/24/2008           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       1.64
  4      10/24/2009           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       3.29
  5      06/30/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       4.58
  6      11/24/2010           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       4.96
  7      03/11/2011           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       5.91
  8      10/29/2011           Satisfactory            Satisfactory                       6.60
  9      03/30/2012       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                6.76
                               Moderately              Moderately
 10      09/09/2012                                                                       6.89
                             Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
                               Moderately              Moderately
 11      12/22/2012                                                                       7.84
                             Unsatisfactory          Unsatisfactory
 12      09/27/2013       Moderately Satisfactory Moderately Satisfactory                 8.69

H. Restructuring (if any)

Restructuring 1           Implementation satisfactory. Disbursement at 64%
04/07/2011                Extends closing date from 3/31/2012 to 3/31/2013 and enables savings to
                          be used to construct an addition regional communication link to Kosovo
Restructuring 2           PDOs continue to be achievable. Disbursement at 85%.
01/30/2013                Extends the closing date by six months up to 09/30/2013




                                                  v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal
Towards the end of the 1990s and the beginning of the next decade, studies indicated that
the countries of South East Europe faced emerging energy shortages and the need for
considerable investments in the energy sector to keep pace with the projected demand
and support economic development. Acknowledging the benefits of a regional, rather
than national approach to energy issues, nations and territories of South East Europe
signed the Treaty Establishing the Energy Community of South East Europe (ECSEE)1
with the European Community in Athens in October 2005. The signatories included
Albania, Bulgaria, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Greece, Kosovo (UNMIK)2, FYR
Macedonia, Montenegro,3 Romania, and Serbia. Turkey, though an active member of the
group did not sign the Treaty and had the status of an “observer”.

The establishment of a well-functioning regional electricity market with consistent
market rules and appropriate regulatory oversight was considered critical to overcome the
fragmentation of energy supply and to encourage new investments needed to meet the
emerging demand-supply gaps on the basis of regionally optimized least cost options.
Without such a regional framework even investments of significant magnitude might
leave gaps between supply and demand. A uniform region-wide institutional framework
for electricity trading largely based on the EU Energy Directives was expected to
improve the region’s generation mix, improve efficiency of operation and energy
conservation, reduce energy intensity, strengthen national institutions, and enable the
countries to adopt legislation, regulation, and environmental standards consistent with
those of the EU.

Recognizing the importance of the EU sponsored program for the promotion of the
regional electricity market in South East Europe and its eventual integration with the
internal EU market, and the importance of regional cooperation and fostering regional
markets among countries previously at war to ensure peace, economic development and
political stability as envisaged under the Stability Pact and EC Treaty, the World Bank
decided to support these initiatives and approved in January 2005, a $1.0 billion
horizontal APL Program to finance projects which will facilitate the emergence of
regional electricity markets among the countries of South East Europe. Under the APL
program seven loans/credits totaling about $410 million had been approved by mid-2007
and the credit to Montenegro was the eighth operation.




1
  Subsequent to the effectiveness of the Athens Treaty in mid-2006, ECSEE was simply referred to as the
Energy Community (EC)
2
  Kosovo is no longer a territory and has since become a country, and Montenegro became independent
from Serbia and Montenegro in June 2006.
3
  Montenegro signed the Treaty on October 25, 2005 as The Republic of Montenegro. After becoming
independent, the country is simply called Montenegro under its constitution


                                                   1
In 2005, Montenegro operated a modest sized power system with an installed generation
capacity of 849 MW (191 MW of lignite fired thermal power plant, 649 MW of two large
hydropower stations and 9 MW of seven small hydropower stations). Its transmission
system consisted of 253 km of 400 kV lines, 371 km of 220 kV lines and 680 km of 110
kV lines and the Montenegro system was interconnected to Serbia (by 220 kV lines),
Bosnia and Herzegovina (BiH) (by 400 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV lines), and Albania (220
kV and 400 kV lines).4 The total transformer capacity in the transmission system was
about 3,138 MVA.

Domestic electricity generation in 2005 was 2,748 GWh (about 67 percent hydro and 33
percent thermal). In addition, the country was trading in electricity with its neighbors on
the basis of annual and long term contracts and also had a long term arrangement to
export peak energy from its Piva HPP to Serbia in exchange for a larger volume of base
load energy.5 In 2005 it had a net energy import of 1,796 GWh. Out of the total domestic
and imported electricity, about 3.1 percent was lost as transmission loss and about 47
percent (or 2,058 GWh) was sold to the three large direct consumers (the aluminum
smelter (KAP), a steel plant and the national railways) and the remaining 2,310 GWh was
transferred to the distribution system. The distribution system incurred a system loss of
26 percent (or 600 GWh) and sold to the distribution consumers 1,710 GWh.

The total number of customers was about 250,000, which included the above three large
direct consumers and total billed sales amounted to 3,768 GWh (in which the Aluminum
plant alone had a share of 1,897 GWh or 50 percent). The overall system losses worked
out to 17.1 percent and the overall collection rate was about 90% of the amounts billed. 6

The power system of Montenegro was operated by the vertically integrated state-owned
power utility ElektroPrivreda Crne Gore (EPCG) and it was a state-owned monopoly
responsible for generation, transmission and distribution of electricity in the country. In
the context of signing the Athens Memoranda of 2002 and 2003, the government enacted
in 2003 a new Energy Law, to restructure the sector on the lines envisaged in EU
directives (1996/92/EC and 2003/54/EC) concerning rules for the internal market for
electricity. Under this Law, EPCG was functionally unbundled into generation,
transmission and distribution businesses with the target of achieving legal unbundling by
2007. An independent Energy Regulatory Agency (ERA) was also established in 2004.
ERA had already hired a consultant, financed by the European Agency for
Reconstruction (EAR), to assist in developing the market rules, resolving tariff issues and
preparing for market liberalization to meet the EC Treaty requirements. In October 2004,
the interconnected power systems in South East Europe (known as the second UCTE)
were re-synchronized with UCTE 7 and Montenegro became part of UCTE (which

4
  The system was also connected to Kosovo by a 400 kV line in 2010.
5
  This agreement appears to have been canceled in 2013/2014.
6
  The data in this and the two previous paragraphs are from the Energy Balance statements of EPCG for
2005.
7
  Union for Coordination of Transmission of Electricity in Europe (UCTE) was later absorbed into the
much wider ENTSO-E of the EU power system.



                                                   2
coordinates the operation and development of the transmission networks of its members)
and operates synchronously with the European systems.

Electricity demand was growing at about two percent annually and solutions for cost
effective generation capacity expansion were elusive. Dependence on imports was
becoming more important. Tariffs lagged behind cost of supply and EPCG was
generating substantial losses. The aluminum smelter which had a share of nearly 50
percent of the total billed electricity consumption was guaranteed a low electricity price
till 2009 under the privatization deal and this made the tariff revisions for others even
more difficult. High cost imported electricity was being provided to the aluminum
smelter at a low price, thus eroding the financial viability of EPCG. The government was
also pursuing a strategy of privatization in the power sector. The European Agency for
Restructuring through Technical Assistance, and the Bank through the Second Structural
Adjustment Credit were helping the government handle these challenges. Earlier the
Bank had also provided a Credit of US$5 million for Emergency Stabilization of
Electricity Supply Project which financed a Pilot Distribution Project, AMR meters and
the introduction of a Financial Management System for EPCG.


The key elements of the rationale for the Bank’s involvement in the APL-3 Montenegro
project were: (a) the long standing partnership between the EU and the Bank in studying
the problems of the Balkans, the evolution of the concept of regional integration of SEE
energy systems, (b) the need to support the EU sponsored program of regional integration
of the power markets of SEE countries and its eventual integration with the internal EU
markets in the context of, the Athens Memoranda and the EC Treaty; and (c) to help
Montenegro with investments needed to make generation and transmission more reliable
and facilitate smoother regional operations through improvements to the communications
system. The higher level objectives of the project were promotion of regional cooperation
and fostering of the regional markets among countries previously at war to ensure peace,
economic development and stability envisaged under the Stability Pact and the EC treaty.
The project was consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (2005-2007) for
Serbia-Montenegro and was relevant to two of the three goals of the CAS, namely,
creation of a more sustainable and efficient public sector, and creation of a larger and
more dynamic private sector. The project was expected to improve the performance
of the power sector and assist in its integration with the regional market both of which
were considered essential to achieve fiscal sustainability of the public sector and
encourage private sector-led growth.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The objective of ECSEE APL program is the development of a functioning regional
electricity market in South East Europe and its integration into the internal electricity
market of the European Union, through the implementation of priority investments
supporting electricity market and power system operations in electricity generation,
transmission and distribution, as well as technical assistance for institutional/systems
development and project preparation and implementation.



                                            3
Within the overall context and objective of the ECSEE APL program, the objective of the
Montenegro APL-3 Project was to improve the efficiency and reliability of the power
system in the Republic of Montenegro, through better supply security and closer
integration into the regional markets.

The key indicators for the APL program objective were the liberalization of the
electricity markets in SEE in accordance with the EC Treaty (including derogations and
subsequent modifications, if any) and the functioning of a regional electricity market.

The key indicators for Montenegro APL-3 Project were: The substations have fewer
blackouts, the hydropower plant generates more electricity at lower operation and
maintenance cost and the company operates more efficiently with UCTE and the regional
markets as a result of the improved telecommunications

The end targets were: (1) for the Telecommunications Component, the satisfactory
completion of all its planned phases and the communication links with two neighboring
dispatch centers being operational, (2) for the Transmission Component, a 50 percent
reduction in the unserved energy in the areas served by the substations, and (3) for the
Perucica Hydropower Component, a 75 percent reduction in the O&M expenses of trash
rack system and a 20 percent reduction in the maintenance expenses relating to the
turbine runners.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

There were no revisions of the PDO or the key indicators. However a draft review carried
out by the Quality Assurance Group in April 2010, suggested revisions to the
performance indicators for components 2 and 3. However there are no records in the
project portal indicating that they were revised accordingly (see Section 3. 2 and Section
5.1).

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,

The PAD does not identify specific beneficiary groups. However, more reliable power
supply and increased electricity trade facilitated by the project would benefit all the
people in the country and especially those served by the two rehabilitated substations.

1.5 Original Components

The Project consisted of the following three components: (1) Telecommunications
System Development involving the development of a modern telecommunications
network, including links with regional utilities; (2) Transmission Network Reinforcement
involving the construction of two transmission line circuits from the transmission
network to the Andrijevica substation and to the Mojkovac substation; and (3)
Improvement of the operational reliability of Perucica Hydropower Plant involving the
installation of a new trash rack and new trash rack cleaning equipment, and supply of
spare turbine runner(s) for Perucica Hydropower Plant.


                                            4
1.6 Revised Components

There were no revisions of the components. Originally regional telecommunication links
to Serbia and BiH were envisaged. Restructuring undertaken in April 2011 added a
regional link to Kosovo and a few other internal links also, making use of the project
savings.

1.7 Other significant changes

The implementing agency EPCG was legally unbundled and in that context responsibility
to implement Components 1 and 2 devolved on Crnogorski Elektroprenosni Sistem AD
(CGES) the new transmission company on the basis of an amended Financing Agreement.
Minor changes included the extension of the closing date from March 31, 2012 to March
31, 2013 and later to September 30, 2013. Savings under the credit after contracting were
reallocated partly to the regional telecommunication link to Kosovo and partly to the
telecommunication links within the country.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry

Project preparation was based on EPCG’s investment plans with a focus on facilitating
security of supply and regional trade and followed the priorities indicated in them,
consistent with the funds available. Project cost estimates were based on thumb rule costs,
and allocations of funds for the components were tentative to be finalized after the
preparation of designs, technical specifications and bidding.

Based on the lessons learnt from the earlier project financed by IDA8, EPCG staff were
given adequate training in the Bank procurement, financial management and reporting
procedures. The technologies selected were kept simple and well within the capacity of
EPCG. Supply and installation supervision contracting procedures were streamlined and
standard bidding documents were used. EPCG was obliged to use consulting services for
the design and technical specifications of the Telecommunications Component as a
condition of disbursement.

At appraisal the Montenegro APL-3 Project was not expected to face any significant risk.
Technologies chosen were well proven and perceived as risk-free. The sizes of the
components were small and were well within the competence of EPCG to implement.
The anticipated legal unbundling of EPCG was not expected to pose any risk to the
Project. For the larger telecommunication component EPCG was obliged to use
consulting support for design, technical specifications and the preparation of bid
documents. Safeguard aspects such as environment and involuntary resettlement were not
expected to create any risk, because of the very small lengths of the transmission lines
and the very small amounts of lands involved. In retrospect, the very reasonable


8
    Emergency Stabilization of Electricity Supply Project


                                                       5
assumption about land acquisition proved to be somewhat optimistic and the project
incurred delays on this account. Some of the landowners did not accept the price and
some claimed interference (through corona effect) with their manufacturing activities,
and under the fair, but cumbersome procedures of the country it took an unexpectedly
long time to resolve these issues.

2.2 Implementation

Implementation of the APL program Montenegro passed a new Energy Law in April
2010 to enable greater consistency with the EU energy directives. In terms of market
liberalization all the non-residential consumers were already “eligible consumers”
capable of choosing their own suppliers.9 Under the new Energy Law all the residential
consumers will become eligible consumers by 2015. Commencing from January 1, 2013,
consumers directly receiving supplies from the transmission grid must have individual
supply contracts and cannot be supplied on the basis of regulated tariffs. 10 Eligible
consumers receiving electricity from the distribution networks however can be supplied
on the basis of regulated tariff till they switch to a different supplier. As of now, none of
them has switched his supplier.

In terms of sector unbundling, as noted earlier, the transmission company CGES was
legally separated from EPCG in 2009. Subsequently the market operating function was
separated from CGES and a separate fully state owned market operator Crnogorski
Operator Tržišta Električne Energije (COTEE) was established to handle market
operations, leaving CGES as a transmission system operator (TSO). However generation
and distribution functions continue to remain bundled under EPCG. Further legal
separation is expected within a year or two. In terms of private sector participation in the
power sector, notable developments took place. An Italian company, A2A, acquired
43.71 percent of the equity shares of EPCG and also the management control of the
company. The state retained 55 percent of the ownership. Similarly, another Italian
company, Terna, acquired 22 percent of the ownership of CGES and the right to appoint
two of the seven members of the Board and three top managers. Terna is also involved in
a major project to connect Italy to Montenegro by a 415 km long 500 kV High Voltage
Direct Current (HVDC) submarine cable, thus helping the further physical integration of
the power systems of Montenegro and the EU.

The responsible institutions such as the ERA and COTEE have adopted most of the
required regulations under the new Energy Law of 2010 within the deadlines set by the
Law. ERA has fulfilled almost all of its tasks stipulated in the Energy Law as regards the
legislative framework for a competitive market, mostly in 2012 and 2013. These include:
(1) Rules for Functioning of Electricity Distribution System in September 2012; (2)


9
  This was based on the notification to this effect by ERA in early 2008.
10
   There were only three such consumers: the aluminum smelter KAP, the steel works and the national
railways. While KAP is under bankruptcy, the other two have concluded supply contracts. KAP during
bankruptcy operates at one third of its capacity and has a contract with Montenegro Bonus, a new supplier
licensed by ERA


                                                    6
Methodology for Setting Charges, Terms and Conditions for Connection to the
Distribution Network; (3) Standard forms and documents for the registration of market
participants and balance groups, as well as, operational rules and procedures relating to
communication, complaint handling and other similar issues in the market; (4) Market
Rules and Methodology for Setting Prices and Conditions for Provision of Ancillary and
System Services and Balancing Services; and (5) Rules for Changing Electricity Tariffs,
defining the procedures for setting provisional tariffs and the procedures for changing
approved revenues and tariff rates during the tariff period. Rules for defining quality of
services have been drafted and circulated for comments. Implementation of these rules
and their strict enforcement are crucial for a market to develop. Wholesale traders do not
need a license in Montenegro. Thus, several major regional traders in the EU market are
registered as market participants in Montenegro. The country also hosts the Project Team
Company in charge of establishing a SEE Coordinated Auction Office (PTC) which
targets harmonization of the allocation and nomination rules for long and medium term
transmission rights in the Region and executing multilateral coordinated auctions on all
SEE borders as a regional one-stop-solution for end 2014.

The average tariff for electricity for all consumers in the country expressed in Euro
cents/kWh has declined from 7.9 in 2007 to slightly less than 6.0 in 2011 and increased to
slightly less than 8.0 in 2013. Current average tariff/kWh for all low voltage consumers is
about 8.6 Euro cents (approximately equivalent to 11.8 US cents).
However, according to the EC secretariat, enforcement remains weak, tariffs still do not
cover full supply costs, and transparency of network access needs to improve in
Montenegro.11

Implementation of the Montenegro APL-3 Project: The credit effectiveness date was
extended from November 26, 2007 to January 28, 2008, since the government needed
additional time to execute the subsidiary Credit Agreement and produce legal opinions
from EPCG. EPCG had met much earlier, the condition of disbursement by engaging the
consulting firm KORONA of Slovenia (working with ELEM & ELGO of Serbia) as
consultants for the preparation of design and technical specifications as well as bid
documents for the Telecommunication Component (under its own financing) with terms
of reference acceptable to the Bank. The mid-term review conducted in July 2009 found
that EPCG had been legally unbundled and initiated action resulting in the amendments
to the Financing Agreement executed in October 2009 to reflect the changed situation. It
found that procurement was progressing satisfactorily and disbursements were running at
about 30 percent. It suggested improvements to the EPCG-prepared-and-IDA-approved
Land Acquisition Policy Framework (LAPF) from the reporting stand point. This was
followed up in a later mission in July 2010 for further improvements.
The project was restructured twice. The first restructuring approved in April 2011
extended the closing date from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 to allow for the delays



11
  This section is based on the Annual Implementation Report of the Energy Community secretariat
(September 2013)



                                                  7
caused in resolving land acquisition issues in relation to substation extension and tower
locations. It also allowed the savings under the credit to be applied to the
telecommunications link to Kosovo and extend the internal communication links.

The second restructuring approved in January 2013 extended the closing date from March
31, 2013 to September 30, 2013 to accommodate further expected delays in the
completion of the internal communication links and construction of the transmission line
to Mojkovac.

In ten out of the twelve ISRs the project was rated “satisfactory” or “moderately
satisfactory” in respect of both DO and IP. In the two ISRs dated September 9, 2012 and
December 12, 2012 both DO and IP were rated “moderately unsatisfactory” because of
the long delays without much effective action in respect of the Mojkoac substation and
related transmission lines despite the first restructuring involving the first extension of the
credit closing date. Once serious action was initiated and pursued the rating was restored
to “modestly satisfactory’ status.

The project was implemented with a delay of 18 months and the credit was closed on
Sept 30, 2013. Final disbursements were made on October 8, 2013 and the credit account
was closed on December 31, 2013, canceling the unused amount of XDR 181,920.34 (or
about 3 percent of the approved credit). All items of the works under the Project have
been completed within 2013 and the facilities are operational. With respect to Component
1, the telecommunication link to Kosovo was completed up to the border between
Montenegro and Kosovo and the portion in Kosovo will be completed by Kosovo under
KfW financing in 2014. With respect to Component 2, the 110 kV line has been
completed and the Substation at Andrijevica has been operational since September 2011.
The 220 kV transmission line to Mojkovac substation was delayed by unexpected land
acquisition issues, but the line has been completed and the substation was expanded to
include an addition transformer bay and started trial operations in August 2013. With
respect to Component 3, replacement of trash rack and trash rack cleaning equipment
were completed by the fourth quarter of 2009, while the replacement of the turbine
runner was done in September 2011. The entire project was completed within the budget,
but with a delay of 18 months, which was attributable to delay in achieving effectiveness
of the credit, and land acquisition and procurement related issues.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The EC program was being monitored and coordinated by the Ministerial Council,
Permanent High Level Group, task forces and forums of the EC effectively supported by
the EC secretariat. The secretariat periodically evaluates the country performance in
relation to its obligations under the EC treaty and reports to the above bodies.

Implementation of the Montenegro APL-3 Project was monitored by the Bank through
quarterly progress reports, audited project expenditure statements and audited company
financial statements of EPCG and CGES. Several implementation support missions and a
mid-term review, procurement reviews, environment and safeguards reviews and FM
reviews, enabled adequate monitoring of the project implementation.


                                              8
The appraisal document included an annex for Results Framework and Monitoring,
which specified the indicators for the PDO, as well as intermediate and final results
targets for the indicators. Quantitative targets were used for components 2 and 3, while
qualitative targets were indicated for component 1. Periodic reviews during supervision
missions were with reference to these time-bound targets. The specified results indicators
turned to be difficult to monitor.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The Project was classified as Category B in terms of environmental aspects, in view of its
modest impacts. The environmental management plans (EMPs) to minimize and mitigate
adverse impacts were prepared for Components 2 and 3, translated in local language,
adequately publicized and consultations were carried out before appraisal. Supervision
missions and missions by environment specialists noted that the EMPs were made part of
the contracts and that compliance with the EMPs by contractors was enforced by the
implementing agencies. They also noted that in respect of some of the installation
contracts financed exclusively by EPCG the EMPs had not been included and pursued
appropriate remedial measures. In respect of Component 1, the missions noted that all
parts with possible environmental impacts had been completed and there were no issues.
In respect of Andrijevica substation and 110 kV line under Component 2, no issues were
outstanding and EMP had been followed. In respect of Mojkovac substation and line, site
reviews confirmed compliance with the EMP and other previously agreed measures. In
respect of Component 3, compliance with EMP had already been achieved.

In respect of land acquisition, lands needed were sought to be purchased mostly at
commercial prices by the implementing agency under the EPCG-made-and-IDA-
approved LAPF. Bank suggested improvements on reporting in this regard were followed.
Only 36 parties were affected by the land acquisition proceedings, which were
proceeding smoothly albeit with delays. Legal proceedings were initiated in those cases
where the agreements on the land purchase had not been reached. One owner near the
Mojkovac substation did not agree with the valuation and also claimed that the overhead
transmission line could adversely affect his manufacturing operations. This led to delays
of several months before these issues could be resolved within the legal framework of
Montenegro to adjudicate on such issues. The Bank missions were alert to the possible
mishandling of these issues and took reasonable care to ensure that all formalities were
observed and to have the reporting defects cured.

Review missions supported by financial management specialists of the Bank Group
found the financial management arrangements for the project (covering such aspects as
budgeting, accounting, internal controls, funds flow, financial reporting, and project
audit) functioned satisfactorily. Payments exceeding Euro 50,000 in value were on the
basis of direct payments to suppliers by IDA at the request of EPCG/CGES, and
payments below that value were made by the utilities and were later reimbursed by IDA.
The project accounts statements audited by external auditors acceptable to IDA were
received periodically and found to be satisfactory. Transactions review was carried out
during each of the on-site supervision visits and no weaknesses were identified with


                                            9
respect to existence and flow of documents, authorized signatures and approvals,
segregation of duties and application of eligible percentages. Adequate system of internal
controls was developed for the project implementation, and transactions review has not
identified any omissions in application of internal controls and procedures in practice.

Audited financial statements of EPCG were received for the years 2008-2012 and found
by the financial management group of the Bank acceptable. Similarly the audited
financial statements of CGES were received for the years 2010-2012 and found
acceptable. Some of these audits had a qualified opinion and utility managements were
pursuing actions for corrective actions. It was adjudged that these qualifications did not
adversely affect the financial management of the project. However these financial
statements were not reviewed by any financial analyst from the point of view of
compliance with the two financial covenants relating to the collection ratio and self-
financing ratio. The ICR mission obtained information regarding the compliance with
these ratios for the period 2007-2012 and the results are discussed in Annex 3

Procurement arrangements were relatively simple. IDA finance was applied to the cost of
supply of goods (excluding taxes and duties), and the needed installation supervision,
while all installation contracts as well as taxes and duties (such as VAT) were financed
exclusively with borrower funds. The consulting services contract for the preparation of
designs, specification and bid documents was also financed fully by the borrower funds.12
Procurement reviews indicated overall compliance with agreed IDA procurement
methods and procedures, and despite certain delays, the arrangements proved satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

Montenegro has to continue its efforts to comply fully with the letter and spirit of the EU
energy directives and its own new Energy Law of 2010. The independence of the ERA
has to become substantive and its ability to enforce its rulings should be fully enabled and
supported. The country has to substantially improve the transparency of the network
access and capacity auctioning and allocation system.

Distribution system losses have to be sharply reduced from the current level of 19 percent
to the allowed level of 9% (basically by eliminating non-technical losses) and collection
levels need to improve to the industry best practice levels. With the greater role for the
private sector in the management of EPCG and CGES, one may expect improvement in
these commercial aspects of utility operation. Progress is being achieved in the
installation of smart meters and automatic remote meter reading. The aluminum smelter
KAP had been the biggest problem of the power sector and it is now under bankruptcy
proceedings, operating at one third of its capacity and purchasing power on the basis of
contracts with Montenegro Bonus- a newly licensed supplier. Given its impact on the
national employment, production and exports, it is not an easy problem to resolve.
However, if it survives, it must be on the basis of its willingness, ability and discipline to


12
     Borrower also financed parts of equipment supply which could not be accommodated under IDA credit



                                                    10
contract for its electricity supplies from any source in the regional/European market and
be able to pay fully and punctually the agreed power price. When KAP related issues are
suitably resolved, Montenegro should be able to restructure its tariffs for its regulated
tariff consumers to recover supply costs and provide relief to the vulnerable among the
power consumers as the other two large consumers, the steel works and the national
railways have agreed to, and are actually receiving supplies on the basis of contracts with
suppliers.

The telecommunication elements of the Montenegrin power system already linked to
Serbia and BiH will soon be linked to Kosovo also, enabling better communication for
the more efficient national and regional operations, strengthening the regional integration
objective. These facilities will be operated by CGES as per the industry practice.
Similarly the transmission and substation facilities under the project are being operated
by CGES as a part of its normal operations. The generation facility improvements in the
Perucica HPP are being operated by EPCG. Both EPCG and CGES have the institutional
capability for the operation and maintenance of the project facilities. There is no formal
follow up investments for the project. IDA is already assisting the country in energy use
efficiency through an ongoing operation.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Creation of a regional energy market and its eventual integration with the EU energy
market is an ongoing process in which considerable regional energy trade is taking place
already. Creation of conditions for this trade to take place on a competitive basis
continues to be a relevant objective. The project objectives of (a) facilitating regional
trade integration through the establishment of a modern and efficient telecommunication
system, (b) reducing system outages by reinforcing transmission links and (c) improving
the HPP reliability through rehabilitation continue to be relevant for the efficient
operation of the sector and reliability of supply. The program and project objectives are
also consistent with one of the two priority objectives of the current Country Partnership
Strategy (FY 2011-14), namely to strengthen institutions and competitiveness in line with
EU accession requirements. The relevance of the objectives of the program and the
project is thus rated high

The Project design was simple and straightforward consistent with the capabilities of the
utilities and the availability of resources. The borrower and the utilities continued to
display a high level of dedication to implement the project properly till the end. However,
the design of the key indicators and their end targets are considered unsatisfactory,
making meaningful monitoring and evaluation difficult. On account of this shortcoming
the Project design is rated substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
The emergence of the regional energy market and its integration with the EU market is an
ongoing and long term process and the achievement of the development objectives of the
APL-3 project would clearly support the overall program objective. Under the EC treaty
all non-residential consumers were to be liberalized (that is made eligible to choose their


                                            11
own electricity supplier) by July 1, 2008 (or such other date agreed to under derogations
and subsequent modifications, if any) and all consumers were to be liberalized by January
1, 2015. In terms of the Energy Law of 2010, all non-household customers in
Montenegro were already liberalized and free to choose their supplier 13 , and all
consumers will become eligible by January 1, 2015. Thus liberalization targets are being
met satisfactorily. In 2012, eligible non-household consumers had a share of 8.8 percent
in the total number of consumers, but in terms of energy consumption had a share of 62
percent in the total consumption. Only three of them were supplied directly from the
transmission grid and were obliged to have supply contracts with their chosen supplier
(see section 2.5 above). Thus the achievement of this program objective is rated high.14

The project objective of improving the efficiency and reliability of the power system in
Montenegro, through better supply security and closer integration into the regional
markets is considered partially achieved. For the Telecommunication Component no
quantitative indicators were used in the PAD. In terms of the project objectives, an
improved, modern and efficient telecommunication system had been fully established,
which has strengthened considerably Montenegro’s ability to operate its own system
efficiently and to participate in the regional market and has thus facilitated closer regional
market integration. The achievement of the outcome with respect to this Component is
rated high.

Quantitative indicators were provided for the objectives of the other two components, and
the results are discussed below in relation to those targets. In relation to Andrijevica and
Mojkovac substations (under Component 2) outage data are presented in Table 1 below.

                      Table 1: Indicator Statistics for Component 2.
Year             Andrijevica substation                     Mojkovac substation
            No. of       Total       Unserved          No. of       Total     Unserved
           outages    duration in      energy         outages     duration     energy
                        minutes        MWh                      in minutes      MWh
2005         31           3719           371             16          1693        291
2006         44           4247           311              9          1169        103
2007         42           6798           485             13          2157        183
2008         26           1558           113             16           478         50
2009         22           1853           134              5            59          5
2010         23            757            54              5           588         39
2011         31           6073           414              9           445         43
2012          5            921            59             11          3291        385
2013          5             96             5             16           846         73
Note: The data for 2005 is from PAD; the data for the remaining years were reported by CGES in 2013.
There was no outage and no unserved energy in respect of Andrijevica since March 31, 2013



13
   The ERA had issued decisions in early 2008 making all non-residential consumers eligible consumers
with effect from July 1, 2008.
14
   The ratings in Sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3 follow a four point scale : Negligible, Modest, Substantial or
High


                                                     12
The PAD had stipulated a 50% reduction in the unserved energy by 2010, but a draft
report by QAG (April 2010) believed that the number of outages rather than the unserved
energy should be the appropriate indicator and suggested that end targets (for 2012) could
be 17 and 8 outages for the above two substations compared to 31 and 16 outages they
had in 2005. With respect to Andrijevica substation the target appears to have been
achieved both in terms of number of outages and in terms of unserved energy. With
respect to Mojkovac where the reinforced substation entered trial operations as late as
August 1, 2013, the numbers of the years up to 2012 (and perhaps 2013 as well) are not
relevant. We will have to look at the numbers for 2014 to verify whether the targets
would be achieved, even though belatedly. Such an achievement of the target appears
likely. Based on these findings the achievement of outcome in respect of this Component
is rated substantial.

With respect to Component 3 the indicator chosen in the PAD was a 75 percent reduction
in the annual O&M expenses of the trash rack system of HPP Perucica and a 20 percent
reduction in the O&M expenses relating to turbine rings by 2010. The QAG considered
these targets inappropriate and suggested that after the turbine runners’ replacement, the
down time of HPP Perucica should come down by 20 percent.

EPCG staff estimate that in an average hydrological year, the replacement of the trash
rack and the cleaning system would save an amount of Euro 105,000 in their annual
maintenance costs Time series O&M cost data for maintenance of the individual pieces
of equipment to further elucidate this estimate in relation to the key indicator are not
available. In 2010, which was a year of huge water inflows, the trash rack and the
cleaning system operated without any stoppage and with a reliability index of 99.79
percent and an availability index of 89.84 percent clearly evidencing the wisdom of the
replacement of the old systems. From the plant availability data given in Annex 10, it
appears reasonable to attribute some portion of the increased plant availability since 2010
to the replacement of the trash rack system in 2009.

Regarding the replacement of the turbine runner, it is necessary to keep in mind that the
plant has seven sets of turbines and associated generating units, served by three penstocks.
EPCG has already purchased and replaced four turbine runners during 2007-2013 besides
the one financed under IDA credit. Two more runners are under procurement. Two of the
additional runners are financed by EIB and the rest is financed by EPCG. EPCG
estimates that it spent annually a sum of Euros 21,500 during 2010-2013 for inspecting
and repairing damages to all runners in the Hydropower station. In addition, EPCG has
done extensive rehabilitation works on this hydropower station facilities worth over Euro
20 million. Also clearly the replacement of the trash rack system has contributed to the
increased plant availability and production. Thus the improvement in the plant
availability is a result of all these improvements and cannot be attributed exclusively to
any one of them. From the annual generation data from this station as well as the plant
availability data for the various turbines provided in Annex 10, it is clear that the
availability of the generating units improved after the replacement of runners and also
after the completion of trash rack work in 2009. However, actual generation depends on



                                            13
the demand profile and water flows into the reservoir apart from the individual
availability of the generating units of the HPP.

In the light of the above analysis it is concluded that though the substance the project
objective for components 3 has been achieved, its clear demonstration in terms of the
indicators in the PAD had not been possible. On account of this moderate shortcoming,
the achievement is considered substantial.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

Component 1, Telecommunication System Development (with 67 percent of the total
actual project cost) has enabled the more efficient operation of the national system, by
itself and as an integral part of the regional electricity market. Information flows on real
time system conditions have enabled greater reliability of the systems and supplies. More
detailed descriptions of the benefits are given in Annex 3 and Annex 7. However, it is not
possible to meaningfully quantify the benefits of the telecommunication system
development nor would it be correct or logical to attribute the benefits exclusively to the
telecommunication investment alone. The benefits such as more efficient operation and
increased reliability are attributable to several factors in addition to the
telecommunication improvements. Thus the lack of exclusive cause and effect
relationship renders quantitative cost-benefit analysis impossible. The PAD also
expressed the same view.15 It is needed and justified in terms of it enabling the more
efficient operation of the Montenegrin system (both by itself and in the regional market)
and the need for Montenegrin system to be linked at least to two adjoining systems in the
regional market in order to comply with the requirements of the former UCTE and the
present ENTSO-E of Europe. The telecommunication system has rendered the
Montenegrin system more closely integrated with the regional market. Through the use of
experienced consultants and the use of ICB, the Component has been completed in a least
cost manner leading to the acquisition of a lot more of equipment than originally
envisaged using the allocated amounts. The efficiency of this Component is rated
substantial.

The PAD has attempted to quantify the benefits of transmission improvements
(Component 2 with 24 percent of the total cost) and compute internal rates of return.
However the soundness of the methodology is open to question. The benefits of the


15
  The PAD stated “implementation of the telecommunications system (Component 1) will be necessary to
integrate the Montenegrin electricity market into the regional markets and to realize the economic benefits
of accessing regional supply resources to meet its growing demand. These benefits are significant for
Montenegro in terms of cost and security of electricity supply; however it would be hard to quantify these
benefits which are directly attributed to the telecommunications system. Therefore, no Economic Rate of
Return was calculated for this subproject”




                                                    14
transmission improvements have been assumed to be a reduction in the forced outages at
the two substations (which is logical) leading to a reduction of the unserved energy in the
areas served by the two substations. The later portion of the assumption of relationship
between the reduced outages and reduced unserved energy is however questionable as all
unserved energy reduction cannot be exclusively attributed to a reduction in substation
outages. Further the assumptions regarding the quantum of reduction of unserved energy
turned out to be unrealistic. The variations between PAD assumptions and actuals
regarding unserved energy are wide, nonlinear and unpredictable indicating the lack of
exclusive causative relationship among the three variables, namely transmission
improvement, number of outages and unserved energy (Annex 3). Further it is not
possible to forecast or project meaningfully weather related capacity and system outages.

Reduction in transmission or substation outages is only one of the several causes of
reduction in unserved energy. It is for this reason the QAG review of 2010 also
recommended that the PDO indicator should be in terms of reduction in the number of
outages and not in terms of unserved energy. The transmission improvements are
justified in terms of technical necessity to provide the needed redundancy to conform to
the N-1 contingency outage criterion and to make the system more reliable in those parts
of the grid. Thus the achievement of efficiency of Component 2 is rated substantial.

The PAD has also attempted to quantify the benefits of Perucica HPP rehabilitation
(component 3 with 9 percent of the total cost) and compute IRRs. It is not safe to operate
HPPs without trash racks. Thus old and worn out trash racks must be replaced out of
sheer technical necessity. When trash rack cleaning mechanism is inefficient and clogs
the trash track, differentials in the head develop reducing the energy generation capability.
According to the literature, such losses in energy production capability could be as high
as 20 to 25 percent of the designed output. Following the methodology of PAD, an EIRR
calculation taking into account the actual cost of rehabilitation (including new trash rack,
trash rack cleaning system and the turbine runner) excluding VAT, and assuming the
energy losses prevented by them to be about 10 percent of the average annual output of
Perucica HPP (2005-2012) and pricing the energy at 4.5 euro cents/kWh the EIRR is as
high as 190 percent. Even when the energy loss avoided is assumed to be 0.5 percent of
the average annual energy, the EIRR remains robust at 19 percent (Annex 3). The
efficiency of Component 3 is, thus, rated high.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The relevance of the objectives of the program and the project is high. The shortcoming
of the design was in the specification of key indicators of the results leading to the design
being rated substantial. The achievement of two of the four PDOs is rated high and the
other two are rated substantial. Efficiency could not be quantitatively estimated for a
major portion of the investment and is therefore rated substantial. As a result the overall
outcome rating is assessed as moderately satisfactory.




                                              15
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
Not applicable
(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
As discussed earlier, major changes such as enactment of the new Energy Law, sector
unbundling and preparation of the sector to function in a competitive regional market are
taking place in the context of Montenegro signing and abiding by the EC treaty,
supported by the APL Program of the Bank Group. The APL-3 Montenegro project
played its role in this process. EPCG was unbundled and underwent major institutional
changes during the implementation period of the project. Significant private sector
participation occurred both in EPCG and in CGES with management changes. The new
institution COTEE legally separated from CGES may need strengthening to enable
market development and cope with increasing complexities such a development entails.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
None

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
None

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low
In respect of the program DO of achieving a liberalized competitive regional market, the
risk to the achievement of full liberalization is low, as the liberalization provision is
incorporated in the new Energy Law (2010). Regional electricity market is functioning,
and while its transformation as a fully competitive market as envisaged in the EC Treaty
might take a longer time than originally planned, the risk of that not happening is
considered low.

In respect of the DOs of the project, the draft QAG report of 2010 considered the risk to
be moderate, because of the delays experienced in land acquisition for component 2 at
that time. As of now the project is almost complete and operational and sustainable
institutional arrangements are in place to operate the facilities efficiently. Thus the risk to
the DOs of the project is considered low or negligible

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

A QER meeting held on March 16, 2006 rated the quality at entry satisfactory. A draft
report of the QAG (April 2010) assessed the quality of design and the quality of Bank
supervision satisfactory. It further rated the likelihood of the DOs being achieved as
likely and the risks to the DOs as moderate. The ICR mission notes that the presentation


                                              16
of the cost estimate for the project in the various sections of the PAD is somewhat
inconsistent and confusing. It is perhaps the result of the two to three year period of
project appraisal and the adoption of the exchange rate prevailing on the date of the final
PAD, while actual calculations were based on rates prevailing earlier. Despite the
prolonged period of project preparation and appraisal the cost estimates were probably
based on tentative thumb rule costs leading to substantial savings later allocated to
finance additional items. The presentation of the Components, and Components to be
financed under the Bank were also unclear and confusing. The basic rationale for the
economic analysis is questionable. Similarly the rationale for PDO indicators is also
questionable. For these reasons the ICR mission assesses the Bank performance in
ensuring quality at entry to be moderately satisfactory.16

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

During the project implementation phase there were three Task team leaders, who carried
out adequately frequent implementation support missions. There was also a midterm
review mission. The financial management specialists and environmental specialists
either participated in these missions or carried out separate missions. Procedural lapses
such as the EMPs not being attached to the bidding documents of the construction
contracts financed by the utility and in land acquisition were identified and remedial
measured were suggested. These missions also enabled the two restructurings of the
credit to enable fuller utilization of the approved credit. The PIU considered the missions
to have been helpful in solving problems as they arose. However, compliance with the
two financial covenants relating to the SFR (of EPCG and CGES) and Collection Ratio of
EPCG were never reviewed by the supervision missions or by any financial analyst in the
office. This is perhaps attributable to the lack of adequate number of financial analysts in
the division. Further, the QAG review of April 2010 actually suggested revised indicators
for Components and 2 and 3 which do not appear to have been acted upon. The
opportunity to correct for this deficiency in results monitoring arrangements while
restructuring the Credit (in 2011) was missed, thus rendering the Project evaluation
difficult and frustrating.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.
Though the government needed additional time for making the credit effective, it
remained committed to the project and the EC treaty obligations and enabled the


16
  It appears that there was another QAG review in FY2008; but no records were available in the project
portal.



                                                   17
enactment of the new Energy Law, the unbundling of the sector, and participation of the
private investment and management in the power sector. However, as noted by the
Annual Implementation Review (2013) of the EC Secretariat, distribution function still
remains to be unbundled from EPCG, tariffs lag behind costs, and the ERA lacks in
reality the power to enforce its decisions. Further, the handling of the undoubtedly
complex and difficult problem of the aluminum smelter KAP created major problems to
the power sector. While the government had been undoubtedly helpful in resolving the
immediate problem, a long-term resolution is still awaited.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

EPCG and CGES maintained a joint PIU staffed with competent and experienced
professionals and maintained the continuity of its members and staff despite their legal
separation and enabled smooth project implementation. However after the legal
separation of the two utilities, the Bank had to spend a great deal of time and effort to
formally enable such a continuation of the PIU. The utilities provided quarterly progress
reports, the audit reports for the project expenses, and their audited financial statements.
Securing them often involved considerable effort on the part of the Bank in reminding
and follow up. They implemented the project with diligence and mostly in compliance of
the various Bank guidelines. They showed willingness to undertake remedial actions
when unintended lapses occurred due to misunderstanding and were pointed out to them.
However their responses for the request of regular data on the PDO indicators could have
been more consistent and meaningful. Further the Bank staff found it often very difficult
and time consuming to get meaningful responses from the utilities on issues raised.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately satisfactory

6. Lessons Learned

The positive lesson is that this is another successful Project, which proves that the Bank
financing of a well-chosen and relevant Project, however small, helps to support the
overall APL Program objective of improving the national power markets and nudging
them towards regional integration and facilitating the evolution of a competitive regional
power market.

However there are some lessons, which the Bank should keep in view. These include:
x Formulating projects on the basis of realistic cost estimates after carrying out the
  design and technical specifications and bidding to avoid needless uncertainties;
x Specifying key indicators which are practical, logical and measurable targets, in the
  absence of which monitoring and evaluation become difficult;
x Utilizing the restructuring opportunities to remedy such omissions;
x Strengthening the supervision missions with adequate backstopping by qualified
  financial analysts to evaluate the financial condition of the implementing agencies in
  relation to the financial covenants.



                                            18
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
No special issues were raised

(b) Cofinanciers
None

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
None




                                      19
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in Euro and USD Million equivalent)

Components                                                   Appraisal    Actual /            Percentage
                                                             Estimate     Latest              of
                                                             Euro         estimate Euro       Appraisal
                                                             million      million

Component 1: Telecommunication System Development
Phase 1: Regional link to Serbia                  2.64
Phase 2: Regional link to BiH                     3.70
Phase 3: Links within the country                 4.48
subtotal                                          6.34          8.11                          128 %
Component 2: Transmission Network Reinforcement
Andrijevica 110/35 kV substation connection       1.22          1.80
Mojkovac 220/110/35 kV substation                 1.44          2.20
connection
subtotal                                          2.66          4.00                          150 %
Component 3: : HPP Perucica Operation Reliability Improvement
Replacement of Trash Rack and Trash Rack          0.83
cleaning equipment
Supply of spare turbine runners                   0.83
Subtotal                                          1.66          1.02                          61 %
Base cost                                        10.66         13.13
Physical and price contingency                    1.07            -
Unallocated                                       1.60            -
Total Project cost in Euro million               13.33         13.13                          99 %
Exchange rate for Euro in US dollars           $ 1.2378       $1.3522
                                            (at appraisal) (Sep 30, 2013)
Total Project cost in US$ million                16.50         17.75                          108 %
Note 1: Subtotal for Component 1 in the PAD excludes the cost of Phase 3 which was left as financing gap
to be met partly from possible savings after bidding within the ceiling of IDA funding of XDR 6.0 m (or
$ 9.0 m). However under the “actuals” column, the subtotal includes the cost of all three phases and also
the additional link to Kosovo, as well as the cost of consulting services for Component 1 paid for by EPCG.

Note 2: Actual expenses in column 3 above include actual expenses as of the Mid-January 2014 and
expected payments for work already done.

Note 3: The exchange rate of $1.2942 to a Euro shown in the PAD Annex 5 is apparently a mistake, as the
project preparation and appraisal took place in late 2005 and reached negotiations stage in April 2006 and
was later renegotiated in May 2007. Only at the exchange rate shown in the table above can the various
cost and financing related numbers in the PAD can be reconciled.

Note 4: Component and total costs include VAT and import duties payable by EPCG.

Note 5: Tables (a) and (b) differ slightly due to rounding


                                                     20
(b) Financing


(b) (i) Financing plan (Euro million)
Source of          Co-financing      Appraisal               Actual             Percentage of
Funds                                                                           Appraisal
IDA                       0               7.27                     6.60               91%
Borrower                  0               6.06                     6.53              108%
Total                     0              13.33                    13.13               99%

(b) (ii) Financing Plan (US$ million)
Source of          Co-financing       Appraisal              Actual             Percentage of
Funds                                                                           Appraisal
IDA                       0                 9.0                    8.92               99%
Borrower                  0                 7.5                    8.83              117%
Total                     0                16.5                   17.75              108%

Note: The actuals in Table b (ii) above is based on the exchange rate of Euro 1 = US$ 1.3522
prevailing on the closing date September 30, 2014. If the original exchange rate of Euro 1=
US$ 1.2378 is used the total actual cost is $16.25 suggesting a cost underrun. Thus the slight cost
overrun seen in Table b (ii) above is caused by variations in exchange rate. Further the project as
completed included a lot more of equipment and works than was included in the appraisal
estimate.




                                                21
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component                              Status                            Output
                                1. Telecommunication System Development
(a) Regional link to Serbia            About 150 km of Optical ground About 541 Km of OPGW were
                                       wire installed over the 400 kV    installed on 400 kV, 220 kV, and
                                       lines Podgorica 2 - Ribarevine    110 kV lines and telecom
                                       and Ribarevine - SS Pljevlja 2    equipment has been installed at
                                       with associated equipment.        26 nodes in the transmission
                                       Telecom link to Serbia is         system within the scope of the
                                       established.                      APL-3 Project. In addition
(b) Regional link to BiH               About 230 km of OPGW              OPGW was installed on 93 km of
                                       installed on the 400 kV, 220 kV   400 kV, 220 kV and 110 kV lines
                                       and 110 kV links between          under financing by EPCG.
                                       Montenegro and BiH along with
                                       associated equipment. Telecom     In addition the Remote Fiber Test
                                       links with BiH established.       System has been installed and it
                                                                         is to detect fiber faults or
                                       In addition OPGW was installed    degradation before they impact
                                       on the 400 kV line from           on the network. The Remote
                                       Ribarevine SS to Kosovo border. Fiber Test System shall monitor
                                       When Kosovo completes its         the fiber network 24 hours a day,
                                       portion this telecom link will be seven days a week.
                                       operational
(c) Internal telecommunication         Two telecom rings at the 110 kV The telecom system covers fully
links                                  level from the National Load      the Montenegrin system and its
                                       dispatch center at Podgorica to   links to BiH, Serbia and Kosovo.
                                       the various substations in the
                                       country
                                   2. Transmission Network Reinforcement
(a) Link to Andrijevica 110 kV         Completed. Operational since      A second two km of 110 kV link
Substation                             September 2011                    from the grid to this substation
                                                                         along with associated substation
                                                                         equipment to improve its
                                                                         reliability.
(b) Links to Mojkovac 220/110          Completed and Trial operations    A second 2.5 km long 220 kV
kV substation                          started on Aug 1, 2013            line with associated extension of
                                                                         the substation to accommodate an
                                                                         addition transformer bay and
                                                                         associated equipment to improve
                                                                         the reliability of this key
                                                                         substation
                                  3. HPP Perucica Reliability Improvement
(a) Replacement of Trash Rack          New Trash Rack was procured       Installation of new equipment has
and Trash Rack cleaning                and installed by September 2009. eliminated stoppages in operation
equipment                              New trash rack cleaning           of HPP Perucica caused by
                                       equipment was also installed and
                                                                         operation failures of the old
                                       became operational by end 2009
                                                                         Cleaning Machine at the Vrtac
                                                                         bottom outlet.
(b) Provision of spare runners for     Turbine runner for Unit 7A was    Turbine runners for units 3 A,
the Turbines                           procured and installed by         3B, 4A, 4B, 6A, and 7B were
                                       September 2011                    replaced either under EPCG
                                                                         financing or other external
                                                                         financing during 2004-2011.



                                                   22
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

     1. Economic Analysis
It is not possible to meaningfully quantify the benefits of the telecommunication system
development (Component 1 with 67 percent of the total actual project cost). PAD also
expressed the same view. It is needed and justified in terms of it enabling the more
efficient operation of the Montenegrin power system (both by itself and in the regional
market) and the need for Montenegrin system to be linked at least to two adjoining
systems in the regional market in order to comply with the requirements of the former
UCTE and the present ENTSO-E of Europe. The development of modern
telecommunication system was the subproject of paramount importance for the
integration of electricity market in Montenegro with regional markets.

The new telecommunication network enables CGES to fulfill communication
requirements of dispatching, measuring and operation of high voltage network and to
ensure easier communication among the main CGES services, with the aim of improving
financial management and administration. The new telecommunication network
interconnects the National Dispatching Centre of Montenegro and dispatching centers of
neighboring countries and allows CGES to fulfill UCTE requirements (as its member)
stipulating that each member must have at least two “point to point” independent
telecommunication connections with other two transmission system operators in the
region.

It enables coordination of operations of regional markets, improvement of data exchanges
between market participants, and supports timely planning and implementation of
bilateral agreements and electricity trade plans in future aimed at the energy security of
the country

It establishes connection between CGES and ENTSO-e system through the Electronic
Highway Computer Network. It fulfills communication requirements of the European
Network of Transmission System Operators of Electricity (ENTSO-E Policy 6:
Communication Infrastructure), namely to: (a) ensure interconnection with neighboring
electric power utilities; (b) satisfy the needs for communication within technical and
business management system; (c) provide capacity for potential provision of a wide range
of telecommunication services on the telecommunication market; and (d) ensure cost
savings from decreased use of capacity leased from fixed and mobile telephony
operators.

The telecommunication system has rendered the Montenegrin system more closely
integrated with the regional market. Through the use of experienced consultants and the
use of ICB, the component has been completed in a least cost manner leading to the
acquisition of a lot more of the equipment than originally envisaged with greater
reliability and more improved technology.




                                           23
The PAD has attempted to quantify the benefits of transmission improvements
(Component 2 with 24 percent of the total cost) and compute internal rates of return.
However the soundness of the methodology is open to question. The benefits of the
transmission improvements have been assumed to be a reduction in the forced outages at
the two substations (which is logical) leading to a reduction of the unserved energy in the
areas served by the two substations. The later portion of the assumption of relationship
between the reduced outages and reduced unserved energy is however questionable as all
unserved energy reduction cannot be exclusively attributed to a reduction in substation
outages. Further the assumptions regarding the quantum of reduction of unserved energy
turned out to be heroic. Thus in respect of Andrijevica substation the PAD assumed that
the unserved energy would increase from 372 MWh in 2005 to 809.9 MWh at an annual
rate of 20 percent and after the commissioning of the proposed transmission project
would increase at the rate of 5 percent per year to 893 MWh in 2012. The actual
historical data provided by CGES indicates that the unserved energy moved from 372
MWh in 2005 to 59 MWh in 2012 in an erratic and unpredictable manner. Similarly in
respect of Mojkovac substation area also the variations between PAD assumptions and
actuals are wide, nonlinear and unpredictable indicating the lack of exclusive causative
relationship among the three variables, namely transmission improvement, number of
outages and unserved energy (table A3.1). Thus the PAD analysis cannot be considered
sound.

Table: A3.1: Comparison between actual unserved energy and those assumed in the PAD

    Year           Andrijevica substation area            Mojkovac substation area
               Unserved energy Unserved                Unserved         Unserved
               assumed in PAD energy Actual            energy assumed energy
               (MWh)              (MWh)                in PAD (MWh) Actual
                                                                        (MWh)
    2005             372.0                371               295.0            291
    2006             446.4                311               354.0            103
    2007             535.7                485               424.8            183
    2008             642.8                113               509.8             50
    2009             771.4                134               611.7              5
    2010             809.9                 54               734.1             39
    2011             850.4                414               770.8             43
    2012             893.0                 59               809.3            385

Reduction in outages is only one of the several causes of reduction in unserved energy. It
is for this reason the QAG review of 2010 also recommended that the PDO indicator
should be in terms of reduction in the number of outages and not in terms of unserved
energy. The transmission improvements are justified in terms of technical necessity to
provide the needed redundancy to conform to the N-1 contingency outage criterion and to
make the system more reliable in those parts of the grid. Meaningful quantitative analysis
is not considered possible.




                                            24
The PAD has also attempted to quantify the benefits of Perucica HPP rehabilitation
(Component 3 with 9 percent of the total cost) and compute IRRs. It is not safe to operate
HPPs without trash racks as trash will destroy the turbines and related equipment. Thus
old and worn out trash racks must be replaced out of sheer technical necessity. When
trash rack cleaning mechanism is inefficient and trash clogs the trash track, differentials
in the head develop reducing the energy generation capability of the plant. According to
the literature, such losses in energy production capability could be as high as 20 to 25
percent of the designed output. Given the energy prices and the relatively low capital cost
of trash rack cleaning systems such investments tend to have pay back periods as low as
three months and IRRs in three digits. Following the methodology of PAD, an EIRR
calculation taking into account the actual cost of rehabilitation (including new trash rack,
trash rack cleaning system and the turbine rings) excluding VAT, and assuming the
energy losses prevented by them to be about 10 percent of the average annual output of
Perucica HPP (averaged over the eight year period 2005-2012) and pricing the energy at
4.5 euro cents/kWh (same as the number used in the PAD and still a conservative valid
number in the Balkans energy market) the EIRR is as high as 190 percent. Even when the
energy loss avoided is assumed to be 0.5 percent of the average annual energy, the EIRR
remains at 19 percent. However the limitations of this type of analysis must be borne in
mind. The improvements only enhance the plant availability or reduce the plant down-
time and may not necessarily result in additional generation, as it will depend on the
water flows and demand profile.

   2. Financial Analysis
Financial performance of EPCG 2008-2012
During 2007-2012, EPCG has been making losses (operational income before taxes)
every year except in 2009 and 2010. It operates a system with a high hydro dependency
with the hydro generation share in the total varying from 45% to 77% depending on the
water flows. Not surprisingly in 2009 and 2010 the share of hydro generation in the total
were highest at 77% and 68%. The other key reasons for the financial problems of EPCG
are: (a) high levels of imports of power at prices much higher than the cost of domestic
generation; (b) high share of unprofitable sales to direct consumers and especially to
KAP which has accumulated huge arrears (c) high levels of distribution losses, and (d)
continuing collections problems. The gross trade receivables in 2012 was equal to the
value of more than one year sales revenue and every year large provisions are being made
for doubtful and uncollectible debts. The net receivables after substantial provisioning in
2012 for bad and uncollectible debts were equal to about sales of 5.22 months. By 2012,
the electricity company has emerged as the second largest tax debtor to the government,
largely because KAP has accumulated payment arrears towards the electricity company
equivalent to 1.8 percent of GDP.
The assets of EPCG are financed mostly by equity as the debt/ (debt + equity) ratio was
at very low level of about 7% even by 2012. The equity is being gradually eroded (by the
accumulated losses) from Euro 933.5 m in 2007 to Euro 853.4 m by 2012. Its
transmission assets were transferred to CGES in 2009 and the remaining fixed assets
were revalued in 2010. This added some revaluation surplus to the equity and somewhat
slowed down the rate of equity erosion.



                                            25
  The high levels of distribution losses and low collection efficiency combined with the
  problem of KAP makes it difficult to impose and enforce cost effective tariff. Since 2012
  ERA is using industry standard benchmarks. Compared to an actual loss level of about 19
  percent ERA allows only 9 percent of losses for computing revenue requirements.
  Similarly it also uses a high benchmark (96%) for collections. These should provide
  motivation to EPCG to make special efforts to reduce losses and improve collections. A
  more permanent and sustainable resolution of the complex problem of KAP is also the
  key to the financial recovery of the sector.

               Table A3.2: Key Indicators of Financial Performance of EPCG

                             Income Statement Items (Euro Million) EPCG
Item                                    2007       2008      2009      2010             2011       2012
Total Revenue                         279.77     299.94    306.16    301.15          265.49     282.18
Total operational costs               287.55     317.49    304.34    295.56          349.68     298.14
Operational Income / Loss              (6.68)    (17.19)      4.64     7.35          (82.52)    (14.91)
Net Nonoperational income              (1.20)     (0.08)    (0.04)     8.44            12.13      12.09
Income / Loss Before Tax               (7.88)    (17.27)      4.60    15.79          (70.39)     (2.82)
Income Tax                               0.00       0.33      0.44     0.71             3.85       2.96
Income/loss after tax                  (7.88)    (17.60)      4.16    15.08          (74.24)     (5.78)

                                  Balance Sheet Items (Euro million) EPCG
Total Fixed and other
Non-current assets                       964.56     954.95     840.55      870.97     862.51     862.82
Total Current assets                       84.77    112.61     201.11      216.52     186.43     223.44
       Of which receivables                57.93      87.34      88.19      96.99      87.74     125.03
Total Assets                            1049.33    1067.56    1041.66    1087.49    1048.94    1086.26
Equity shares                            991.88     991.88     967.28      967.28     967.28     967.28
Reserves                                    0.00       0.00       0.00     186.74     186.90     186.83
Retained earnings/ Losses                (58.36)    (79.58)    (72.62)   (228.46)   (295.00)   (300.77)
Total equity                             933.52     912.30     894.66      925.56     859.18     853.34
Long Term Borrowings                       20.31      29.49      31.13      40.66      47.66      63.63
Deferred income tax liabilities            34.36      20.36      18.18      29.80      33.95      36.01
Long term Provision                         0.74       5.57      17.32      24.63      16.91      18.42
Deferred income                             3.90       5.52       6.25       7.84       8.58       9.06
Total non-current liabilities              59.31      60.94      72.88     102.93     107.10     127.12
Total current liabilities                  56.51      94.76      74.12      59.02      82.64     105.79
Total of liabilities                     115.82     155.70     147.00      161.95     189.74     232.91
Total of equity and liabilities         1049.34    1068.00    1041.66    1087.51    1048.92    1086.25

                                           General Memo Items
Generation Hydro GWh                    1278.30  1501.50   2062.60       2749.60    1203.80    1469.90
Generation Thermal GWh                   766.40  1155.40    616.90       1271.70    1452.30    1245.10
Generation total GWh                    2044.70  2656.90   2679.50       4021.30    2656.10    2715.00
Hydro share in total generation
(%)                                       62.52      56.51      76.98       68.38     45.32       54.14


                                                   26
Imports GWh                          3361.00    2806.00      2361.00      1946.00     3499.00    3501.00
Exports GWh                           759.00     909.00      1283.00      1946.00     1938.00    2374.00
Sales to Direct customers GWh        2155.70    1955.10      1106.50      1341.10     1478.80    1172.70
Sales to Distribution customers
GWh                                  1802.70    1904.80      1931.60      2013.30     2086.50    2072.80
Total billed sales GWh               3958.40    3859.90      3038.10      3354.40     3565.30    3245.50
Average Tariff for all consumers
Euro Cent/kWh                         6.9100     7.2200        7.9382        6.2950    5.9770     6.6430
                            Note: Data in parentheses are negative.
                      Source: Audited financial statements and EPCG data

  Under the Financing Agreement Schedule 2, Section V there is a financial covenant
  which obliges EPCG to reach in respect of tariff consumers a collection ratio of 94
  percent for the year 2009 and maintain that level (or improve over it) in the subsequent
  years. There is also a second covenant obliging EPCG to achieve a self-financing ratio
  (SFR) of not less than 35% in 2008 and in the later years.

  Based on the information provided by EPCG, the collection ratio covenant target had
  been missed during 2008-2012 by a small margin and has been exceeded in 2013. The
  success in 2013 is attributable to: (a) greater efforts by the management; (b) KAP not
  being allowed to receive power as a tariff consumer; (c) benchmarks by the ERA for
  allowed revenues (see Table A3.3).

              Table A3.3: Compliance with Collection Ratio Covenant by EPCG
      Year      Actual collections    Amounts billed      Collection Ratio    Target under the
                (Euro million)        (Euro million)      Achieved (%)        Covenant (%)
       2007            253.37              274.93              92.16                >90
       2008            255.76              280.88              91.06                >92
       2009            246.45              281.65              87.50                >94
       2010            234.59              252.32              92.97                >94
       2011            223.11              255.54              87.31                >94
       2012            227.60              248.30              91.45                >94
       2013            182.12              189.77              95.97                >94

  The relatively small size of its capital expenditure (1.5 to 5.5 percent) in relation to the
  size of its operating fixed assets base should normally make it easier to achieve the
  targeted SFR. Despite making operational losses in four out of six years EPCG had
  managed to report SFRs well in excess of the target of 35 percent in five of the years
  (Table A3.4).
                      TableA3.4: Self Financial Ratios Reported by EPCG
                                      Year             Reported SFR (%)
                                      2007                     67
                                      2008                     74
                                      2009                    105
                                      2010                    107
                                      2011                    113
                                      2012                     19




                                                27
The apparently high SFRs mask the fact that the cash generated by its power operations
alone are not sufficient to achieve any decent level of SFR, as the high SFRs seems to
result from financial transactions external to the core power operations. As the size of its
capital expenditure increases in future, its internal cash generation from its power
operations needs to increase to finance at least 30 to 35 percent of the costs of its
expansion program.

Financial performance of CGES (2010-2012)

CGES was legally separated from EPCG in the course of 2009 and the first audited
financial statement relates to the year 2010. Its main revenue comes from transmission
charges and transit fees and its main expenses are the operation and maintenance costs
relating to the transmission system. During the last three years it has been making
operational profits. Its profits after tax moved from Euro 5.16 m in 2010 to Euro 3.50m in
2011 and to Euro 6.57m in 2012.

Somewhat like EPCG the assets of CGES are also financed mostly by contributed equity
and its long term debt is small. Its equity base is increasing mostly on account of the
retained earnings. In 2012 it had trade receivables amounting to Euro 5.36m or the
equivalent of about 2.25 months’ sales. Much of it is from EPCG and the supplier of
KAP. By taking supplies from the grid and not paying for it, KAP caused damage to the
sector in the regional market and particularly to CGES in the past and the government
had to take some special steps to resolve this issue. It remains to be seen whether the
KAP situation will not affect the financial viability of EPCG and CGES in the future.

           Table A3.4: Key Indicators of Financial Performance of CGES
                       Income Statement Items (Euro million) CGES
       Item                                                 2010    2011        2012
       Total Revenue                                       27.60   26.03       29.16
       Total operational costs                             21.43   22.26       23.52
       Operational Income / Loss                             6.17   3.77        5.64
       Nonoperational income net                           (0.50)   0.17        1.60
       Income / Loss Before Tax                              5.67   3.94        7.24
       Income Tax                                            0.51   0.44        0.67
       Income/loss after tax                                 5.16   3.50        6.57
                          Balance Sheet Items (Euro million) CGES
       Total Fixed and Non-current assets                 133.20  136.79     143.95
       Current assets                                      18.74   57.11      54.84
              Of which Trade and other receivables          5.15    6.91       6.21
       Total Assets                                       151.94  193.90     198.79
       Equity shares                                      120.85  155.11     155.11
       Reserves                                             0.00    0.00       0.25
       Retained earnings/ Losses                            3.32    6.83       9.87
       Total equity                                       124.17  161.94     165.23
       Long Term Borrowings                                17.83   20.81      19.95
       Total non-current liabilities                       18.93   22.24      22.23


                                            28
       Total current liabilities                            8.85     9.72     11.33
       Total of liabilities                                27.78    31.96     33.56
       Total of equity and liabilities                    151.94   193.90    198.79
                           Note: Data in parentheses are negative.
                        Source: Audited financial statements of CGES

The collection ratio covenant is not applicable to CGES since it does not deal with tariff
consumers. However the SFR covenant is applicable to it. According to the data and
calculations provided by it based on audited accounts it has substantially exceeded the
target of 35 percent in each of the three years (Table A3.5)

              Table A3.5: Compliance with SFR Ratio covenant by CGES

                   Year                  Target SFR (%)   Achieved SFR (%)
                   2010                        35                217
                   2011                        35                 73
                   2012                        35                 74

The high levels of SFR are probably due to the relatively small capital investment
program pursued during the period.




                                                  29
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                            Responsibility
          Names                            Title                   Unit           /
                                                                              Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
 Bernard Baratz            Consultant                             EASCS
 Aleksandar Crnomarkovic   Sr Financial Management Specialist     ECSO3
 Miroslav Frick            Operations Officer                     ECSEG
 Franz Gerner              Lead Energy Specialist                 EASVS
 Sergio Augusto Gonzalez
                           Senior Energy Specialist               LCSEG
Coltrinari
 Lewis Raymond Hawke       Lead Public Sector Specialist           ECSP4
 Nikola Ille               Senior Environmental Specialist        ECSEN
 Surekha Jaddoo            Consultant                             ECSEG
 Plamen Stoyanov Kirov     Senior Procurement Specialist          LCSPT
 Sanela Ljuca              Operations Officer                     ECCBM
 Paula F. Lytle            Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
 Chukwudi H. Okafor        Senior Social Development Specialist   AFTCS
 Nenad Pavlovic            Consultant                             ECSEG
 Norval Stanley Peabody    Consultant                             LCSEG
 Anna L Wielogorska        Senior Procurement Specialist          EASR1
 Richard Wong              Consultant                             ECSSD
Jose M. Martinez           Senior Procurement Specialist          ECCU4

(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                       USD Thousands (including
                                      No. of staff weeks
                                                             travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY07                                                                     39.84
  FY08                                                                     -0.06
                           Total:                                          39.78
Supervision/ICR
  FY07                                                                      0.00
  FY08                                                                     84.96
                           Total:                                          84.96




                                           30
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
None




                                      31
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)
None




                                   32
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The Borrower’s ICR of January 2014 is 31 pages long and contains a detailed description
of the project, its implementation, its costs, and benefits as well as explanations for
variations between what were envisaged at the time of appraisal and what actually
happened. It focuses on the physical components of the project and does not deal with the
sector reform or the regional market related initiatives pursued under the EC Treaty.

It outlines the components in detail and compares project cost as appraised and as
envisaged now at the time of project completion. The project is being completed within
the budget at a cost of Euro 13.13 million (actual expenses as of mid-January 2014 plus
expected payments for works completed already) compared to the appraisal cost estimate
of Euro 13.33 million. The actual share of the borrower in financing was about 50 percent
of the total actual cost compared to the appraisal estimate of about 43 percent.

For the First (Telecommunication) Component, EPCG hired in the middle of the year
2007 a Consulting firm (KORONA DD of Slovenia) whose selection and terms of
reference were first agreed with the Bank. The consulting services contract was financed
from the funds of EPCG. In accordance with the designs, specifications and the
implementation plan for Component 1 developed by the hired Consultant and declared
acceptable by the Bank, further implementation proceeded. In the first stage OPGW was
installed on 368 km of overhead lines (15 sections), and telecommunication equipment
were installed in 21 nodes. These included telecommunication links to Serbia and Bosnia
Herzegovina. Using the substantial savings from the first stage and based on the
Restructuring of the Credit stage 2 was implemented under which OPGW was installed
on 171 km of overhead lines (8 sections), and telecommunication equipment were
installed at 5 nodes. The stage 2 also included telecommunication connection up to the
border of Kosovo, Facility for remote monitoring of optical cables in real time, and
technological upgrades of the previously installed 21 nodes. The delays in the
implementation of this component were caused by the difficulties faced in procuring
OPGW of accurate lengths and of the right quality and unfavorable whether condition
which damaged the installed OPGW in certain sections and the need to reinstall them
during the next available season. Completion of the construction of telecommunication
system allowed CGES to have a reliable network providing connection of the following
systems:
   x   SCADA (system for monitoring and control): Termination stations, which communicate
       with the server in NDC through telecommunication system, were installed in 23 facilities;
   x   EMS (state estimator, power flow calculation, security analyses) uses data obtained from
       SCADA system and data exchanged with neighboring TSOs (Transmission System
       Operator) by means of EH (Electronic Highway) through TASE2 protocol;
   x   CGES is connected to EH. EH node is formed with 10Mb links towards EMS and NOS
       B&H;
   x   CGES is connected with OST link 10Mb;




                                              33
   x   Observability Monitor (monitoring of neighboring systems) uses data obtained from
       SCADA system and data exchanged with neighboring TSOs by means of EH through
       TASE2 protocol;
   x   WAMS (Wide Area Measurement System), i.e. monitoring of dynamic events in the
       system; measuring current and voltage and their phase at a resolution of 20ms; it uses
       data obtained from 5 PMU installed in the facilities of CGES and data obtained from
       other TSOs through EH;
   x   AMR (Automatic Meter Reading); about 100 meters installed in the facilities of CGES
       communicate with the server in NDC through telecommunication system;
   x   Scalar (system for detection of lightning strokes) communicates with the server in
       Slovenia through EH;
   x   23 facilities are connected to the optical system and all communication (voice and control
       informatics, measuring) is conducted through telecommunication system;
   x   In the initial phase of the implementation of the video surveillance system in all facilities,
       cameras have been installed in 2 facilities.
The Map below indicates the telecommunication system constructed under the project.




                                                34
The purpose of the Second (Transmission) component is to improve and ensure better
power supply security of the central and northeastern part of Montenegro, i.e. areas of
Mojkovac, Kolašin, Bijelo Polje, Berane and Andrijevica.

Construction Works in Andrijevica commenced on 15 June 2010. They were completed
and the transformer station and connecting overhead lines were energized on August 24,
2011. Use permit was also obtained. Construction works in Mojkovas commenced on
July 15, 2012 and completed on August 1, 2013, when the facilities were energized and
put into operation. Use permit is being obtained. In the implementation of this component
both World Bank procedures and those required under the laws of Montenegro had to be
observed in respect of land expropriation and environmental protection. The main
reasons for delays were: (a) delays in the preparation of designs, (b) legal procedures for
land expropriation and compensation, (c) the time consuming need to secure permits and
approvals on urban and technical conditions, consents and local taxes from various
authorities (ministries and municipal agencies), and (d) to some extent the legal
unbundling of CGES from EPCG.

The best project performance indicators are smaller number and reduced time of outages
and significantly reduced undelivered electric energy. It is noteworthy that there were no
outages at both substations since March 31, 2013.

The objective of the third (HPP) component is to improve the reliability of Perucica HPP
by replacing its trash rack and providing a new trash rack cleaning equipment as well as
providing a spare turbine runner. The trash rack related works were completed in
September 2009. It has reduced annual expenses relating to trash rack to the extent of
Euro 105,000 and has greatly improved the reliability of the Perucica HPP. In 2010, the
year with huge water flows, the new trash rack system operated without stoppage and
enabled the plant to achieve a reliability index of 99.79 percent and an availability index
of 89.84 percent. In addition the replacement of old trash rack and cleaning system by the
new one significantly reduces water losses in the water retention area of this HPP
(VRTAC).

The turbine runner was procured and installed in Unit A7 in September 2011under the
IDA credit. EPCG had also procured partly under its own financing and partly under EIB
financing six other runners which have been installed Units 3A and 3B, 4A and 4B, 6A
and 7B during 2004-2011. They have also contributed to the improved availability of the
seven generating units in this HPP. The report provides availability statistics for each unit.

After listing a variety of project benefits the report takes a special note of: (a) Good
cooperation with members of the World Bank’s team; (b) Accuracy and coherence of the
required reports (social and environmental), with a special emphasis on the good
cooperation with the environmental specialist, and (c) Continuous controls – regular WB
missions for the purpose of joint working on the efficiency of project
implementation/completion”. It further observes, “Cooperation with the Bank’s
representatives is assessed to have been very good during the preparation and
implementation of the project, which produced more efficient writing of the reports with
fewer remarks. Feedbacks and discussions from the Bank’s officers on the quality of the


                                             35
reports, identification and control as well as their contribution to the entire project
implementation are highly satisfactory”. Under the CGES components it observes “Here
we would like to emphasize a very good cooperation with members of the World Bank’s
team in efficient, precise and clear preparing and submitting of required reports,
especially a good cooperation with the environmental specialist having in mind the
specificity of these issues that were relatively new to us. Regular visits paid by the World
Bank’s specialists influenced the efficiency, organization and coherence of the project
implementation, so that their contribution to the overall project implementation is very
satisfactory”.

It identifies the lessons learnt as follows: “We regard the Bank’s approach regarding
organization of public discussions about EMP17 and LAPF18 prior to the commencement
of project implementation by the investor, to which various potential stakeholders, non-
governmental organizations, organizations dealing with ecology, social and political
associations, etc. are invited, as a very useful experience and good practice which CGES
should apply to all its investment projects. Suffice it to say that as a result of this CGES
obtained information on the presence of hazardous waste on the area envisaged for the
extension of TS Mojkovac, which resulted in taking necessary activities on the
environmental protection.

Working on this project allowed a certain number of employees from CGES and EPCG
as well as outside the PMU to get acquainted with the Bank’s rules and procedures for
procurement of goods and works by involving them in the Commissions for tender
preparation and bid evaluation, which will surely be useful in the implementation of
future similar investment projects.




17
     Environment Management Plan
18
     Land Acquisition Policy Framework



                                            36
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

None




                                    37
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Quarterly Progress reports from the PIU
Audited Annual Financial Statements of EPCG (2008-2012) and CGES (2010-2012
Audited project expenses statements
Borrower’s ICR (2014)
Aide memoires of the project supervision missions (2007-2013)
ISRs of the project
Draft Report of QAG (2010)
Annual Implementation Reports of the EC secretariat 2012 and 2013
Energy Law (2010)




                                       38
Annex 10: Availability of, and annual generation from, the units of Perucica
HPP

Based on the data provided by EPCG the following tables on the availability of the
generating units of the Perucica HPP and annual generation from them had been
compiled. It may be seen that there is a notable improvement of the availability after the
replacement of the runners of units 3, 4 and 7. The Bank financed runner was used to
replace of the two runners of Unit 7. The other runner for unit 7 was financed by EPCG.
The correlation between runner replacement and annual generation is not easily
discernable.

         Annual Availability of the Generating Units of Perucica HPP (%)
       Unit     1        2          3      4        5        6        7
       YEAR     %        %         %      %        %         %        %
       2006.  17.2     42.5       91.9   82.0     91.5      91.7     90.9
       2007.  93.3     93.3       51.7   77.1     88.4      95.1     83.1
       2008.  89.1     84.1       73.9   45.9     76.6      80.4     81.7
       2009.  81.2     78.8       79.2   79.6     79.8      75.1     74.5
       2010.  90.9     90.7       89.8   88.7     88.9      90.8     89.2
       2011.  92.1     78.5       91.4   83.5     89.8      87.3     87.0
       2012.  93.4     93.4       86.5   93.2     88.1      90.9     92.8
       2013.  89.9     89.6       90.0   89.6     89.3      88.1     90.2
                                 Source: Based on data provided by EPCG
Note: Availability includes actual hours of operation in a year of 8760 hours plus the number of hours
during which the units were in the standby mode ready to start operating at a moment’s notice and it is
expressed as a %. Each unit needs two runners. Numbers in “bold” indicate the year in which the runners
were replaced in the Unit.
         Annual Electricity Generation from each Generating Unit at Perucica HPP (GWh)
    Unit     Installed                             Generation in GWh
    No.      capacity      2006       2007       2008    2009     2010            2011       2012
              (MW)
      1         38        20.00      142.32     158.93     158.93     191.97      93.62     113.99
      2         38        77.48      112.30     155.42     155.42     209.13      99.84     141.34
      3         38        116.82      51.23      93.93     165.56     199.98     111.49     138.17
      4         38        108.70      64.56      70.58     168.34     201.05     120.00     138.08
      5         30        129.51      56.52      76.29     107.60     144.93      53.81      75.19
      6        58.5       198.61     173.84     169.24     172.39     248.51      85.28      99.21
      7        58.5       185.70     137.81     158.21     171.38     239.34      65.71     102.56
                                Source: Based on data provided by EPCG
Note: Numbers in “bold” indicate the year in which the runners were replaced in the Unit. IDA financed
runner was one of the two runners replaced in Unit 7. One of the two runners in Unit 6 was replaced in
2004.




                                                   39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      IBRD 40701
                                                                                        19°E
                                         MONTENEGRO                                                                                                                                                    HYDROPOWER PLANT
  ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE                                                                                                                                                                THERMAL POWER PLANT
       APL 3 - MONTENEGRO PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                                                              110 kV       220 kV   400 kV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             TRANSMISSION LINES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SUBSTATIONS

            BOSNIA AND                                                           To Gorazde



                                                       ina
                                                                                                                                                                                                       CITIES AND TOWNS
           HERZEGOVINA
                                                     Dr
                                                                                                                              To Potpec                            sta
                                                                                                                                                              To Ba˘
                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                           Cehotin
                                                                                                                                                                                                       OPSTINA (MUNICIPALITY) BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                               To Pozega
                                                                                                                                                                                                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES




                                                                                                    a
                                                                                               Gradac

                              To Sarajevo                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                                                        Plijevlja                                           20°E
                                                                                                                                   2


                                                               Piva
                                                                                                                                     ´
                                                                                                                              Durdevica                                                                             SERBIA
                                                                                                                              Tara
                                                  Rudinice            Plužine                                                                                                        Nedakusi


                                                                                                                                   Ta
                                                Goransko                                Zabljak


                                                                                                                                     ra
                                                                      Kom




                                                                                                                                                                     v
                                                                                                                                                             Tomasevo
                                                                                                                                                                                            Bijelo Polje
                                                                         ar




                                                    Bajovo Polje            ca                                                                                 Ribarevina
                                                                            in




                                                                                                                                                        Mojkovac
43°N
                                                                                                 ˘
                                                                                                 Savnik
                                                                      Brezna                                                      Kolasin                                 Mojkovac


                                                                                  Zeta
                                                                                                Gvozd                                                                                Berane                                  Rozaje
                                                                                                                                                        v
           To Bileca                     Velimlje                                                                                                Kolasin
                                    ´
                             Petrovici
                                                                                    ˘ć
                                                                                 Niksi
                                      Vilusi                                                                                                                    v
                                                                 Kilcevo                                                                 v              Matesevo                                                                      To Kosovo
                                                                                                                         Medurijecje
                                                                                                     Morakovo                                                                                Andrijevica
                                                                                                                                   Lijeva Rijeka
           To Trebinje                                                                                                                                                             ˘
                                                                                                                                                                         EVR Trebjesica
                                                                                                                                 aca




                                          Grahovo                                                                                                                                          Murino
                                                                                   Ze




                                                                                                                              Mor
                                                                                    ta




                                                                Perucica                                                                           Pelev                                               Plav
                                  Crkvice
 RO
CR O A TIA                                                                 Danilovgrad                           v                                                                        Gusinje
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             KOSOVO
                                      Risan                                                               Spuz                               v
                                                                                                                                    Bioce
                                                    Perast

            Herceg Novi                                                                                                     PODGORICA
                                                                                                                          PODGORICA
                                                             Kotor                              2
                                                                                                                                                 na




                                                                                                                                              ev
                                                                                                                                          Ci j
                                  Radovi´ci            Tivat               Cetinje                                        3       Tuzi
                                                                                                                     4
                                                                                                        KAP                                                                     ALBANIA
                                                                                                                 Plavnica
                                                                                                                                                                    To Tirana
                                                      Budva
                                                      Sveti Stefan                             Virpazar                                                       To V. Deje

                                                                Petrovac                                              Lake
                            Ad r i a t i c                                                                           Scutari

                              Sea                                                        Bar         Stari Bar                                                Shkodër


42°N
                                                                                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                               un
                                                                                                                                             -B
                                                                                                                                    a




       0       5       10   15     20 Kilometers                                                                                                                                          MONTENEGRO
                                                                                                                                  Bojan




                                                                                                        Ulcinj
       0           5         10          15         20 Miles                                                  Sveti Nikola

                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                       The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
 GSDPM
 Map Design Unit
                       Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                       endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                 19°E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      FEBRUARY 2014
