                       Document of
                     The World Bank


                                          Report No: 59737-ME




                  RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                          ON A

         PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING OF THE

                           OF

ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3 - MONTENEGRO
                       PROJECT

                     CREDIT 4351-MOT

                       JULY 6, 2007

                         TO THE

                      MONTENEGRO


                       April 7, 2011
 Regional Vice President:        Philippe H. Le Houerou
        Country Director:        Jane Armitage
Sector Manager / Director:       Ranjit J. Lamech
       Task Team Leader:         Franz Gerner




                             2
                     MONTENEGRO
ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3 - MONTENEGRO
                       PROJECT
                           P


                                                      106899
                                                    CONTENTS

                                                                                                                        Page
A.   SUMMARY ................................................................................................................ 4
B.   PROJECT STATUS.................................................................................................... 4
C.   PROPOSED CHANGES ............................................................................................ 5
D.   APPRAISAL SUMMARY ......................................................................................... 6




                                                             3
 ENERGY COMMUNITY OF SOUTH EAST EUROPE APL 3 - MONTENEGRO
                        PROJECT

                             RESTRUCTURING PAPER

SUMMARY
The Closing Date for Montenegro, Energy Community of South East Europe APL-3
Montenegro Project P106899, Credit 4351-MOT will be extended from March 31, 2012,
to March 31, 2013. The Government is seeking the extension to implement an additional
activity (the installation of optical ground wire cables (OPGW) and telecommunication
equipment, connecting the system to Kosovo) under Component 1 (Telecommunications
Systems Development). This additional activity will enhance the development impact of
the project since, in addition to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, a third connection
will be financed.


PROJECT STATUS
Project implementation is progressing well and the achievement of the Project
Development objectives is on track and monitoring indicators are currently on target with
end targets likely to be achieved by the Closing Date of the Project.

Progress under the three components is as follows:

 ·   Component 1 (Telecommunications System Development): Installation of OPGW
     cables to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia is finalized and the remaining
     telecommunications equipment is currently being installed. This component is
     almost completed and the result indicator set out in the monitoring framework (i.e.
     communication links with two neighboring dispatch centers are operational) will be
     fully achieved by the end of 2011.

 ·   Component 2 (Transmission Network Reinforcement): Preparations for
     construction and installation of goods under Component 2 is progressing and all
     equipment has been delivered to the sites. This component is progressing well and
     the result indicator set out in the monitoring framework (i.e. Unserved energy due
     to forced outages in the sub-projects local areas reduced by 50 percent) will be
     measured once installation work is completed. However, the timeline for
     completion is tight as it took longer to resolve land acquisition issues to extend the
     substations and transmission towers. Therefore, completion of this component will
     take longer than originally anticipated.

 ·   Component 3 (Improvement of Operational Reliability of Perucica Hydropower
     Plant): The purchase and installation of the trash rack and cleaning machine are
     finalized. The spare turbine runner for Perucica HPP has been manufactured and is
     currently being installed at the plant. This component is almost completed. There

                                             4
     are two results indicators for this component. Indicator (i) refers to the reduction of
     operation and maintenance costs of the trash rack system by 75 percent. Data on the
     actual costs savings will be provided in July 2011 after the trash rack is operational
     for more than 12 month. Indicator (ii) refers to the reduction of turbine runner
     maintenance costs by 20 percent. Data on actual costs savings will be provided in
     early 2012 once the runner is fully operational for at least 12 months.

Implementation Rating in the last ISR (February 8, 2011) is `Satisfactory.' Disbursement
is currently at 64%. There are no outstanding audits. A Mid Term Review was carried
out in July 2009, and progress was achieved as envisaged for that period and there were
no major issues.

Bids for the last contract under Component 1 came in significantly lower than originally
estimated resulting in savings of SDR 1.5 million in the Component. Hence, it is
proposed that the savings will be used for expansion of this Component with additional
OPGW wire and telecommunication equipment connection to Kosovo. Credit funds will
be used for purchase of goods and related equipment only and works will be funded by
the Borrower. This additional activity under the Component will enhance the impact of
the PDO in terms of regional integration as Montenegro will also be connected with
Kosovo. In addition, this will allow additional time required to complete Component 2
which takes longer than anticipated.

A proposal on the scope of the activities as well as a detailed timetable and cost
allocation have been prepared by the PMU and discussed with the Project Team. The
additional activity meets all the requirements of OP13.25 (i.e. implementation is
satisfactory and there is compliance with all project agreements, additional activity has
high priority and is consistent with the original project objectives, activities have been
fully appraised and are economically justified, financing the activities does not violate the
country financing parameters) and will not trigger any new safeguards and there will be
no change in the environmental category. There will be no land acquisition for this
activity. The project team confirms that the project development objectives remain the
same and continue to be achievable and that the project will be completed by the
extension date.


PROPOSED CHANGES
Project's Development Objectives

The original PDO remains unchanged. The objective of the ECSEE APL3 -
Montenegro project is to improve the efficiency and reliability of the power system in
Montenegro, through better supply security and closer integration into the regional
markets.

Results/indicators
There is no change as the new activity can be captured and measured under the current
indicator for Component I namely "Communication links with two neighboring dispatch

                                             5
centers are operational". In addition to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia, a new
connection will also be established with Kosovo.



Components
There are no new components. The new activity will be part of component I and will
entail the installation of OPGW wire and telecommunication equipment connecting
Montenegro with Kosovo.

Procurement
There are no changes and only goods will be procured from the activity as done
previously for the connections to Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia.

Closing Date
The Closing Date will be extended to March 31, 2013. This will enable the client to use
savings under the project to enhance the impact of the PDO by further integrating
Montenegro into the regional electricity market and to meet growing electricity demand
in Montenegro. The extension will also enable the successful completion of Component
II the preparation of which took longer than anticipated at approval.

Implementation Schedule
Implementation will continue until March 31, 2013. This extension will allow the client
to prepare the technical design documentation, carry out bidding for the goods, install the
OPGW and telecommunication equipment and subsequently carry out relevant network
tests.


APPRAISAL SUMMARY
Safeguards
The World Bank has reviewed and assessed the new activity and confirms that no new
safeguard policies will be triggered but adherence to the already triggered ones need to be
ensured. There will be no change in the environmental assessment category. A short EA
and EMP will be prepared for the new activity and submitted to the Bank for review and
no objection. No land acquisition is envisaged for the new activity.

Economic Analysis
The development of a modern telecommunications system linking the power system of
Montenegro to the region is part of the investment needs necessary to enable regional
electricity markets to work. There are huge investment requirements in the region to
increase generation capacity to meet future demand. Regional power trade is of particular
importance to Montenegro which imports up to a third of its annual power demand. The
World Bank has assessed the viability of the new connection and confirms that this will
further integrate the Montenegro power market with Kosovo using more efficient means
of system monitoring and data exchanges between the two system dispatch centers
enabling more efficient power trade.

                                             6
Technical
In addition to the economic benefits of establishing a more efficient connection to
Kosovo, the new activity brings substantial technical benefits, including: (a) replacement
of slow analog equipment with faster digital equipment; (b) increase reliability of
telecommunications system; and (c) increase telecommunication capacity and ability to
coordinate "Union for the Co-ordination of Electricity Transmission" (UCTE) and
interact with regional market.




                                            7
