 IEG
                                                                                               Report Number: ICRR14653

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                       Date Posted: 04/28/2015

              Country: Montenegro
           Project ID: P106899                                                     Appraisal               Actual
        Project Name: Energy Community Of            Project Costs (US$M):                     13.33                17.75
                       South East Europe
                       APL 3 - Montenegro
                       Project
  L/C Number:          C4351                           Loan/Credit (US$M):             XDR 6.00M=            XDR 5.82=
                                                                                           US$9.0             US$8.92
      Sector Board:        Energy and Mining          Cofinancing (US$M):                       0                    0

           Cofinanciers:                               Board Approval Date :                                  07/06/2007
                                                                Closing Date:              03/31/2012         09/30/2013
          Sector(s):       Power (81%); Renewable energy (19%)
          Theme(s):        Regional integration (50% - P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (50% -
                           P)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                 Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Richard L. Berney          Victoria Alexeeva       Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The objective of the Montenegro ECSEE APL3 Project was to improve the efficiency and reliability of the power
system in the Republic of Montenegro, through better supply security and closer integration into the regional markets.
(Financial Agreement page 5 and PAD para 21).

It was the third phase of the Energy Community of South East Europe (ECSEE) Adaptable Lending Program (APL),
overall objective of which was the development of a functioning regional electricity market and its integration into the
internal electricity market of the European Union. (PAD para 20).

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
  The Project consisted of the following three components:
(1) The development of a modern telecommunications network, including links with regional utilities. An additional
telecommunications link to Kosovo was added in the restructuring undertaken in April 2011 to make use of project
savings. (Appraisal Estimate US$7.85; Actual US$10.97)
(2) Transmission Network Reinforcement involving the construction of two transmission line circuits from the
transmission network to the Andrijevica substation and to the Mojkovac substation (Appraisal Estimate US$3.29;
Actual US$5.41).
(3) Improvement of the operational reliability of Perucica Hydropower Plant (Appraisal Estimate US$2.05; Actual US$
1.38), through installation of a new trash rack and new trash rack cleaning equipment, and supply of spare turbine
runners for Perucica Hydropower Plant.
 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project Cost: The project was completed within its budget. An unused amount of XDR 181,920 (about 3% of the
approved credit) was canceled upon closing. The data provided on project costs is based on the exchange rates
existing at appraisal and a project closing. There were considerable variations over the project life in these XDR:US$
and the US$:Euro exchange rates.

Financing: The project was financed by IDA in the amount of US$9.0 million, which disbursed at US$8.92 million.
There were no cofinanciers and no external borrowings.

Borrower Contribution : At appraisal, the Borrower was to contribute US$7.5 million. The Borrower's actual
contribution was US$8.83 million. Much of this difference is attributable to movements in the US$:Euro exchange
rate.

Dates: The closing date was extended twice, from March 31, 2012 to March 31, 2013 and later to September 30,
2013. The first extension was to allow for the delays caused in resolving land acquisition issues in relation to
substation extension and tower locations. The second extension was to accommodate further delays in the
completion of the internal communication links and construction of the transmission line to the Mojkovac substation.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High: The establishment of a well-functioning regional electricity market with consistent market rules and appropriate
regulatory oversight was considered critical to overcome the fragmentation of energy supply and to encourage new
investments needed to meet the emerging supply gaps. A uniform region-wide institutional framework for electricity
trading, largely based on the EU Energy Directives, would improve the region’s generation mix and the overall
regional generation efficiency. The objectives were also relevant to the World Bank Group's Country Strategy
FY2011-2014, which aimed at improving the security and reliability of Montenegro’s energy sector. These objectives
were as relevant at closure as they were at appraisal.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial: All three of the project components are relevant to achieving the project’s objectives. The causal chain for
the project is consistent and aligns with the activities and components of the project. The telecommunications
network is essential for achieving an efficient regional electricity market, as is strengthening the country’s transmission
network. Improving the operational reliability of generation from the Perucica hydropower plant is expected to improve
the overall efficiency of Montenegro’s system, which would also lead to improved system supply security and
reliability. There was no institutional improvement component.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

To improve the efficiency and reliability of the power system in the Republic of Montenegro , through better supply
security and closer integration into the regional markets . - Substantial.

Outputs

    The Montenegro’s National Dispatching Center has been linked with the dispatching centers of neighboring
     countries. The two originally planned regional links to Bosnia-Herzegovina and Serbia are operational, and an
     additional link to Kosovo has also been completed.
    Reinforcement of the Andrijevica substation and transmission network was completed in 2011, and the improved
     network became operational in September 2011.
    Reinforcement of the Mojkovac substation and transmission network was completed in 2013 and the improved
     network became operational in the beginning of August 2013.
    For the Perucic hydropower plant (HPP), the Bank financed the replacement of trash rack and trash rack cleaning
     equipment, completed by the fourth quarter of 2009, and the replacement of two of the three turbine runners of
     Unit 7 by September 2011. EPCG had also procured partly under its own financing and partly under EIB financing
     six additional turbine runners.

Outcome

    The new telecommunication system fulfilled the European Transmission Network (UCTE) requirement that each
     member have at least two “point to point” independent telecommunication connections with two other
     transmission system operators in the region.
    In the Andrijevica network outages declined from an average of 29 per year from 2007 through 2011 (for an
     average of 3408 hours per year) to five (for 96 hours) in 2013, with none since the second quarter of 2013.
    For the Mojkovac network, the outcome was to be determined by the results in 2014 and 2015.
    Improvements in the operational reliability of Perucic HPP were completed successfully. The facilities are
     functioning very well. There was a significant improvement in annual generation after this replacement (from an
     average of 88.3% availability in the five year 2007-2011, to an average of 90.1% in 2012-2013). However,
     because there are many factors involved in annual generation of each unit, including, most significantly, water
     availability, it is not possible to establish a correlation between trash racks and turbine runner replacement and
     annual generation over a short period, or to separate the benefits from the Bank financed improvements from
     those similar improvements financed from other sources.
    The outcome indicator of the overall APL Program with regard to liberalization of the electricity market in SEE in
     accordance with EC treaty and a regional electricity market functioning was being achieved on target in
     Montenegro: all consumers were to be liberalized by 01/01/2015 in line with Energy Law 2010 (non-residential
     consumers had been liberalized by July 2008 and were eligible to choose their supplier); sector unbundling had
     been substantially completed, and regional electricity trading is taking place (ICR, p.iii), though accurately the
     ICR does not claim that this result could be attributed to the project under review.

5. Efficiency:
 Economic Efficiency:
(1) The Telecommunications System: (62% of the total project cost)
Telecommunication System Development , has improved the system’s operational efficiency and reliability. However,
as pointed out in the ICR, it is not possible to meaningfully quantify the benefits of these system improvements. Nor
can one attribute the benefits achieved exclusively to the telecommunication investments. Thus the lack of exclusive
cause and effect relationship renders quantitative cost-benefit analysis impossible for this component.
(2) The Transmission system improvements: (30% of total project cost)
 The transmission improvements are justified in terms of technical necessity to provide the needed redundancy to
conform to the European Community reliability and contingency outage standards. However, the use of quantitative
measures of this component’s efficiency is problematic. However, while the PAD analysis described a linear, causal
relationship between the transmission upgrades and improvements in number of outages, the actual tracked
outcomes, show wide variances on a year to year basis, essentially uncorrelated with any of the project investments
(see table in Annex 3 of the ICR). This lack of correlation indicates the absence of any direct, exclusive causative
relationship between the project outputs and outcomes. The reason for this lack of correlation is that several
additional variables play an important role in measured outcomes, including annual water flows, and various other
parallel investments. Nevertheless, the outcome improvements between before the project to after the project are still
significant, and at least partially related to project related investments.
(3) The Perucica HPP rehabilitation (8% of the total cost)
The PAD also attempts to quantify the benefits of the project’s related investments and to compute associated rates of
return. The replacement of the trash racks is part of routine maintenance, not an independent investment, as it is not
safe to operate HPPs without trash racks. When this maintenance is not implemented and the trash rack cleaning
mechanism fails to work properly, the component’s energy generation capability can decline by as much as 20 to 25
percent of the component’s designed output. Thus, as would be expected for a maintenance operation, the Economic
rate of return (ERR) is high. In this instance, an ERR calculation taking into account the actual cost of rehabilitation
and assuming the energy losses prevented by them to be about 10 percent of the average annual output, pricing the
energy lost at 4.5 euro cents/kWh yields an ERR upwards of 190 percent.

Implementation Efficiency
The investment components, including a substantially greater quantity of equipment than originally envisaged, and the
extension of the international connections to a third country, were completed within the original investment budget.
However, project completion took 18 months longer than anticipated at appraisal, which was attributable primarily to
delays related to the legal processes involved in land acquisition.

Efficiency is assessed as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                Rate Available?                            Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       No
     ICR estimate                    No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.
 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is high, and that of design is substantial. The project helped substantially improve the
efficiency and reliability of the power system in the Republic of Montenegro through better supply security and closer
integration into the regional markets. Efficiency is assessed as substantial.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


 7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
   The risks to the strengthened liberalized competitive regional market is low, as the liberalization provisions are
incorporated in the 2010 Energy Law. The Regional electricity market is functioning, and while its transformation as a
fully competitive market as envisaged in the EC Treaty might take a longer time than originally planned, the risk of that
not happening is considered low.

The risk to the continued efficient use of the project’s investment components is also low. The project is complete and
operational and sustainable institutional arrangements are in place to operate the facilities efficiently. However, as the
size of the sector’s capital expenditure increases in future, the internal cash generation would need to increase to
finance at least 30 to 35 percent of the costs of its expansion program.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Negligible to Low

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    A QER meeting held on March 16, 2006 rated the quality at entry satisfactory. However, the ICR points out
that the PAD’s presentation of the Components financed under the Bank were unclear and confusing, and despite
the prolonged period of project preparation and appraisal, the cost estimates appear to have been based on
tentative "rules of thumb" estimates that were overly generous. The lower actual costs enabled the project to
finance additional items with the surplus funds.
The basic rationale for the PDO indicators and for the economic analysis is questionable. A draft review carried
out by the Quality Assurance Group in April 2010, suggested revisions to the performance indicators for
components 2 and 3. However there are no records in the project portal indicating that they were revised
accordingly.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                        Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    During the project implementation phase there were three Task team leaders. The two restructurings enabled
fuller utilization of the approved credit. The financial management specialists and environmental specialists either
participated in the supervision missions or carried out separate missions. However, compliance with the two
financial covenants relating to the Self Financing Ratio and the Collection Ratio of the Power Utility were never
reviewed by the supervision missions or by any financial analyst in the office. Further, the QAG review of April
2010 suggested revised indicators for Components and 2 and 3 which do not appear to have been acted upon.
The opportunity to correct for this deficiency in results monitoring arrangements while restructuring the Credit (in
2011) was missed, thus rendering the project evaluation difficult.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                 Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :               Moderately Satisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:
    The government remained committed to the project and to its EC treaty obligations throughout project
implementation. It enacted the new Energy Law, the unbundling of the sector, and participation of the private
investment and management in the power sector. However it has yet to fully implement its EC treaty reform
obligations. Specifically, the electricity distribution function still remains to be unbundled from the national power
company; tariffs still lag behind costs resulting in continued government subsidies; and the Energy Regulating
Authority is not yet fully independent in that it still lacks the authority to enforce its decisions.

   Government Performance Rating                                    Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The national Power Generation company and Transmission company maintained a joint PIU staffed after the
two entities were legally separated. The PIU was staffed with competent and experienced professionals and
maintained the continuity of its members and staff despite the legal separation. They implemented the project with
diligence and mostly in compliance of the various Bank guidelines and showed willingness to undertake remedial
actions when unintended lapses occurred due to misunderstanding were pointed out to them. However their
responses for the request of regular data on the PDO indicators could have been more consistent and meaningful.
And the Bank staff often found it very difficult and time consuming to get meaningful responses from the utilities on
issues raised.

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                            Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
    The appraisal document included an annex for Results Framework and Monitoring, which specified the indicators
for the PDO, as well as intermediate and final results targets for the indicators.
   Quantitative targets were used for measuring Improvements in the operational reliability of HPP Perucica
      measured in terms of hours of availability and total electricity production. However, it was not possible to directly
      associate the project financed maintenance upgrades with improved outputs, since hydrological conditions have
      a stronger effect on annual output, and reduced costs of subsequent maintenance was not measured.
   The reduction in unserved energy resulting from forced outages in the transmission subprojects was also
      measured, but here too, it was not possible to correlate specific outages with system reinforcement investments.
      The number of such outages would, as pointed out in the QAG review, been a better, but far from perfect
      indicator.

 b. M&E Implementation:
   Implementation was monitored through quarterly progress reports, audited project expenditure statements and
audited company financial statements of the Transmission and Power companies. Several implementation support
missions and a mid-term review, procurement reviews, environment and safeguards reviews and financial
management reviews enabled adequate monitoring of the project implementation.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The M&E indictors were used to support the expansion of the telecommunications system to interconnect a third
country when it was determined that this project component was being effectively implemented and there were
sufficient funds to expand its scope.

M&E Quality Rating: Substantial




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
The Project was classified as Category B in view of its modest environmental impacts. Safeguard aspects included
environment assessment and involuntary resettlement. They were not expected to create any significant risks,
because of the very short lengths of the transmission lines and the very small amounts of lands involved. The
environmental management plans (EMPs) covered land acquisition and potential environmental damage due to
construction activities and hazardous materials. EMPs to minimize and mitigate adverse impacts were prepared,
translated in local language, and adequately publicized, and consultations were carried out before appraisal.
Supervision missions and missions by environment specialists noted that the EMPs were made part of the contracts
and that compliance with the EMPs by contractors was enforced by the implementing agencies. The ICR mission
noted that all project activities with possible environmental impacts had been completed and there were no issues.
Lands were purchased at commercial prices by the implementing agency under IDA approved protocols. Only 36
parties were affected by the land acquisition proceedings, which were proceeding smoothly albeit with delays. Legal
proceedings according to Montenegro's regulations were initiated in those cases where the agreements on the land
purchase had not been reached. The Bank's supervision missions monitored these activities and found them
consistent with Bank regulations.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial management . Review missions supported by the Bank's financial management specialists found the
financial management arrangements for the project functioned satisfactorily. Adequate system of internal controls was
developed for the project implementation, and transactions review did not identified any omissions in application of
internal controls and procedures in practice. The project accounts statements audited by external auditors acceptable
to IDA were received periodically and found to be satisfactory. Transactions reviews was carried out during each of
the on-site supervision visits and no weaknesses were identified. Annual audited financial statements were received
and were found acceptable. Where some of these audits had a qualified opinion, utility management took corrective
actions. It was adjudged that these qualifications did not adversely affect the financial management of the project.
However these financial statements were not reviewed by any financial analyst from the point of view of compliance
with the two financial covenants relating to the collection ratio and self-financing ratio.


Procurement . Procurement arrangements were relatively simple. IDA finance was applied to the cost of supply of
goods (excluding taxes and duties), and the needed installation supervision. Procurement reviews indicated overall
compliance with agreed IDA procurement methods and procedures, and despite certain delays, the arrangements
proved satisfactory.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:




12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Satisfactory         Since the rating for Relevance of
                               Satisfactory                                     Objectives is high, and that of Design is
                                                                                Substantial, Efficacy and Efficiency are
                                                                                rated Substantial, the overall rating is
                                                                                Satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 The ICR identified the following lessons that could help future project design:
  Realistic cost estimates derived after carrying out the design and technical specifications can avoid needless
   uncertainties;
  It is important to design key indicators that are practical, logical and measurable targets;
  Restructuring opportunities should be utilized to remedy omissions of key indicators.


14. Assessment Recommended?                Yes     No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

This is a comprehensive and well written ICR. It provides a balance discussion of both the strengths and weaknesses
of project design and implementation. Annex 3 of the ICR is particularly outstanding comprehensive discussion and
analysis of the methodology used by the PAD for estimating the project EIRRs and the financial performance of the
project entities.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
