Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8000
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
(CREDIT 900-CE)
AUGUST 7, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRZNCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         =  Rs 15.8
Rs 1         = USS0.063
Rs 1 million - US$63,290
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURESx BRITISH
1 foot (ft) - 0.305 meters
l mile (mi) - 1.609 kilometers
PRINCIPAL GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DBST    -  Double Bitumen-Surface Dressing
DOH     -  Department of Highways
ERR     -   Economic rate of return
GOSL    -   Government of Sri Lanka
MOH     -  Ministry of Highways
OED     -   Operations Evaluation Department
PCR     -   Project Completion Report
PMC     -   Project Management Cell
PR      -   President's Report
RDA     -   Road Development Authority
SAR     -   Staff Appr&isal Report
SD & CC -   State Development and Construction Corporation
SEC     -   State Engineering Corporation
SLCTB   -   Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
TCEO    -   Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
TFA     -   Technical and Finance Audit (MOH)
VOC     -  vehicle operating costs
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OIILUEONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Ofto of Duwrecwoal
Opratn EvAutim
August 7, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
suBJCT:  ProJect Completion Report on Sri Lanka Road
Maintenance Project (Credit 900-CE)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Sri Lanka Road Maintenance Project
(Credit 900-CE)" prepared by the Asia Regional Office. Under the
modified system for project performance auditing, further evaluation
of this project by the Operations Evaluation Department has not been
made.
Attacbment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by rfcipients only In the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



.;   * -  R



YOR OMCLAL USE ONLY
SRI LANA
P.OAD MAIT3ANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900-Ca)
PROJECT COMPLCTION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTCNTS
PREFACE ................ *
'ASIC DATA SElEET........................................................ ii
EVALUATION SUMHARY ...................       ,      .     ,      .     .    iil
I. INTRODUCTION                           ....... .
It.  PROJECT IDENTIFICATION. PREPARATION, AND APPRAISAL ...............2
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ............................................ 5
IV.  COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENTS ................................. 11
V.  ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION AND BENEFITS ............................II
VI.  R',LE OF THE BANK ................................................16
VI-I.  PERFORMANCE OF THE BORROWER ...................................... 17
VIII.  CONCLUSIONS ...................................................... 20
TABLES
1. Procurement Schedule .       .       ....................................... 21
2. Project Components - Road Rehabilitation ................... 24
3.                     - Road Rehabilitation under Contract ......25
4.                     - Bridge Rehabilitation           . . .26
5;                     - Improved P riodic Maintenance        ..28
6.                     - Improved Periodic Maintenance
(Asphalt Overlay)         ...  31
7. Comparison between Estimated Appraisal and Actual Costs ...... 32
8. Disbursements ........................................... . . ... 33
9. Vehicle Operating Costs ...................................... 34
10. (a),(b).(c),(d) Economic Re-evaluation              . . .    36
11. (a).(b).(c).(d) Re-evaluation - Rate of Return           . .   40
12. (a),(b),(c), Re-ev'luation - Rate of Return .................. 44
13. Road Maintenance Esp-nditures                   . . .   47
14. Proposed Five Year Expenditures .............................. 48
15. RDA Organization Structure                   .... 49
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



APPENDIX
OBSERVATIONS BY THE REGION  ........................ 0so
I. Project Experience...                                             50
I1. Economic Re-evaluation         S3........ 53
MAP
IBRD 14040R - Sri Lanka - Road Maintenance Project



SRI LANKA
ROAD MANTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PRFACE
The following is a Project Completion Report (PCR) on Sri Lanka's
Road and Bridge Rehabilitation Project. The project (formulated based on
the IDA Transport Sector review of 1966, updated in 1976) was identified in
December 1977. The total cost of the project was estimated at US$28.885
million equivalent with a foreign exchange cost of USS16.5 million
equivalent. According to the Credit Agreement No. 900-CE. dated June 22.
1979, the project was scheduled to be completed by December 31. 1983. but
this date was subsequently extended by another 18 months. to June 30, 1985.
US$14.95 million out of US16.5 million, were disbursed at March 31. 1986.
and the balance was cancelled. The completion of the works on the project
were carried out with the funds allocated to the Department of Highways
(DON) and the Road Development Authority (RDA), by the Government of Sri
Lanka (GOSL).
The PCR was prepared by the Project Management Cell of the DOS:
the appended observations by the Bank's Asia Region on project experience
and economic re-evaluation elaborate on some points raised in the PCR.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED)
but the project was not audited by OED staff. The draft PCR was sent to
rhe Borrower on May 23, 1989, for comments by July 11, 1989, but none were
received.



- ii -
SRI LANKA
ROAD MUINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BASIC DATA SHEET
Key ProJect Data
Appraisal        Actual
Expenditure
Total Project Cost (US $ million)          28.75           25.50s  l/
Loan Amount   (US $ Million)               16.5            16.5
*                Disbursed      (US $ Million)               16.5            14.95
*                Date Physical Component Completed          4/83            12/86  I/
Overall Project Rate of Return             36 X            39%
I/ Estimated
Other Project Data
Project Identified                         December 1977
*                Project Appraised                          October  1978
Final Appraisal                            April    1979
Begotiations                              March    1979
Board Approval                              1 May   1979
*                Loan Agreement Date                        22 June  1979
Date of Effectiveness                      19 December 1979
Criginal Closing Date                      31 December 1983
Actual Closing Date                        30 September 1985
*                Name of Borrower                           Government of Sri Lanka
Executing Agency                           Department of Highways
Fiscal Year of Borrower                    1se January to 31st December
Follow-on Project :
Name                   : Sri Lanka Second Roads Project
Loan Number            : 25L7 - CE
Date of Loan Agreement : 9 May, 1985
Amount (U.S $ Million) : 24.0



-iii-
SRI LANR
ROAD MAINTENWNCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900-CE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PROJECT BACKGROUND
1.       The political and socio-economic setting against which the Road
Maintenance Project was identified and prepared is discussed in detail in
the April 18, 1979 President's Report (PR) paras 3-14, and in the April 11.
1979 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) paras 1.01-1.05. The first credit for a
Highway Project in Sri Lanka was approved by the Board in 1968 and was
subsequently cancelled as the Government vanted to change the project
approach and scope.  Between 1960 and 1976 annual per capital gross
national income rose by 0.9Z. Policy changes introduced in 1977 following
the election of the United National Party were aimed at resuscitating the
economy and to reduce unemployment which, in 1979, was estimated at about
one million, or 202 of the labor force.
2.       The genesis of the Road Maintenance Project can be traced to a
1976 update of a 1966 Transport Sector Report. There had been no Bank-
assisted operations for 11 years. An IDA mission visited Sri Lanka in
December 1977 and recommended assistance to road passenger transport and to
road maintenance and rehabilitation.  Initially, the idea was to have one
project cater for both. Eventually, two sepazate projects were financeds
one for road maintenance under the Department of Highways, and another for
passenger transport under the Ministry of Transport Boards.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
3.       The basic aim was to facilitate the transport of goods and
passengers and to reduce road transport costs. (PR, para 56).
4.       The project was specifically designed to:
(a) arrest the deterioration of the road system by a program of
enhanced routine and periodic maintenance; and
(b) lay the foundation for improved planning of road maintenance and
execution of future works.
5.       At the completion of the project, and apart from road and bridge
rehabilitation works,
(a)  one demonstration district will have been organized and equipped
to carry out road maintenance more efficiently;
(b) improved road maintenance methods will have been introduced
island-wide; and
(c) the DOH will have an increased capability to plan and design
roads.



-iv-
PROJECT COMPONENTS
6.       The project consisted of the following (SAR para 3.03):
(a)  rehabilite.ion of about 112 miles of road;
b) improvement of routine and periodic highway maintenance (resealing
and resurfacing of about 150 miles);
(c)  screngthening. repair or replacement of about 30 bridges;
(d) procurement of road maintenance equipment and spares; and
(e) technical assistance.
7.       At appraisal, physical execution of the project was expected to
start in the last quarter of 1979 and to be completed in four years (SARL
para 3.14).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
S.       Under the project, roads and bridges were expected to be
rehabilitated by contract. However, there were no bids *nd (except in the
participation of small local contractors in the bridge component), the work
was executed by force accopt (PCR. paras 3.03, 3.05, 3.06).
9.       Experience with both objectives and with the instruments for their
pursuit has been mixed.  The objectives weres
(a)  arrest the deterioration of the road system by a program of
enhanced routine and periodic maintenance; and
(b) say the foundation for improved planning ef road maintenance and
execution of future works (paras 7.02-77.
The instruments were:
(a) organization and equipping of one demonstration district;
organization and equipping of Colombo Region did take place (PCR,
para 3.22) but results were not lasting (PCR. para 5.07);
(b) introduction of improved road maintenance methods island-wides and
(c) increased DOH capability to plan and design roads.
COMPONENTS
10.      Experience with procurement and implementation has been mixed.
(a) rehabilitation and limited improvement of about 112 miles of road;
a totp± of 118 miles was completed (PCR. para 3.02).
(b) improvement el routine and periodic highway maintenance (resealing
and resurfE.;.ng of about 150 miles); the target has been achieved
(PCR, pera 3.10);



(c) strengthening, repair or replacement of about 30 bridgest the
program was expanded to 40 bridges and of these. 7 were awarded to
private contractors. Seven other bridges were executed by state
corporations. The remaining 26 bridges were built by force
account. A total of 6 bridges remained incomplete on December 31,
1985, the end of the extended project period (PCR, paras
3.07-3.08);
(d) pr"curement of road maintenance equipment and spares: targets set
at appraisal were met (PCR, paras '.11-3.13); and
(e) technical assistance; this was satisfactorily provided by a Danish
consulting firm (PCR, paras 3.15-3.23).
COST
11.      At project comnletion (PCR, para 4.01), estimated actual
expenditures amounted to US$25.5 million (as against the appraisal estimate
of US$28.8 million), the apparent reduction being largely due to the
increased value of the US dollar as against the Sri Lanian Rupee. The
amount shown as estimated actual expenditures ought to be regarded with
caution because project accounts were not scrupulously kept and the
Auditor-General refused to approve the covenanted audit reports (PCR
Appendix: Observations by the Resion, Section I: Project Experience).
COMPLETION
12.      Actual project completion was at June 30, 1985 (as against the
appraisal estimace of December 31. 1983).  Delays were mo'ty due to late
procurement of machinery and equipment (PCR, para 3.01).
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
13.      Economic rate of return estimated at appraisal was 362 (SAR. para
4.07). Economic rates of return for different components re-estimated
after project completion ranged from 22.6Z to 180.42 (according to the
Borrower's PCR, para 5.02) and 39Z (PCR Appendix: Observations by the
Region. Section II, Economic Re-evaluation).
SUSTAINABILITY OF PROJECT BENEFITS
14.      IDA had been out of the sector for about a decade when the project
was approved. There were mixed results in a project sense, but in
retrospect, it is clear that this project was a turning point in the
highway sector and in our dealings in it with GOSL. The emphasis on
maintenance and rehabilitation (as distinct from new construction) became
the centerpiece of Government policy, as it still is today. The Governmeut
began gearing up and reforming institutions to respond to this emphasis and
there has been some development of small private contractors to deal with
routine maintenance.



SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETiON REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Sri Lanka is an island with an area of about 65,000 square kilometres
and a total population of about 15.8 million. The maximum geographical
distances of the island are about 400 km. from north to south and 240 km.
from east to west   The topography of the country which is flat in the coastal
areas and mountainous towards the centre of the island, rising to peaks of
2000 - 2500 m, has influenced the transport infrastructure. Rivers flow in
a radial pattern from the mountains and have no navigational significance.
The size and topography of the country and the location of population, a high
proportion of which live in the southwest quadrant and the nort"ern tip,
generate large and frequent short distance transport of goods and passengers
that can be well met by road transport.
1.02     The-economic growth between 1972 and 1977 has been modest, the real
gross domestic product (GDP) increasing by 3.7X annually. During the same
period, passenger and port traffic has been stagnant and freight traific has
increased by about3.6X annually. 3ut with the introduction of an economic
liberalisation programme in 1978, designed to break the economic stagnation
of 1970 - 1977, growth accelerated almost immediately as reflected in 6.8S
real annual growth in 1977 - 1980, which then declined to 5.3X in 1980 - 1983.
During 1978 - 1982, the share of the transport sector in the GDP, increased
to 9 %.
1.03     The bulk.of inland freight transport is made up of agricultural
prodtcts such as rice, tea, rubber and coconuts. Manufacturing activity is
centred in and around Co. -mbo, which is also the principal port.
1.04     Road transport accounts for 90X of the total transport which the
importance of the railways in terms of sector output, has declined from
about 8X during 1976 - 1980 to 4X of the total in 1981. The rapid growth
in road traffic and axle loads, has resulted in rapid deterioration of the
road netwcrk.
1.05     The road transport system of Sri Lanka consists of about 25,000 km.
of roads malntained by the Department of h'ghways (DOH), up to January 1986,
and since then, by the Road Development Authority (RDA) which took over the



-2-
functions of DOW. Some 43,000 km. of roads are maintained by local
authorities. The road transport plays an important role in the economy of
Sri Lanka, accounting for about 90X of total ton-km and 82S of total pass-km.
With the liberal import policies since 1977, introduction of private
passenger transport and opening of new agricultural areas and townships under
the Mahaweli Project, and the recent growth of traffic have placed severe
burdens upon the highway system.
1.06     Bank involvement in the Sri Lanka highway subsector started in 1966.
Based on the IDA transport sector review of 1966, the frist Highway Project
was formulated and was approved in 1968, but was later cancelled due to a
change on the emphasis of the project, towards new construction, rather than
rehabilitation. At the Government's request, the 1966 sector review was
updated by an IDA aission in 1976, which concluded that there might be a high
priority requirement for improved maintenance in the road sector.
1.07     This completion report is based on information obtained from the
World Bank Appraisal Reports of the First and Second Projects, Financial
records of the Department of Highways (DOH) and subsequently, the Road
Development Authority (RDA), the Consulting Engineers' reports, Project
Implementation Reports and personal knowledge of the details of the Project
as gathered from the P-oject Co-ordinator.
The Project Completion Report has been prepared by the Project Management
Cell (PMC) of the Road Development Authority.
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01     As stated in the previous chapter, the First Road Maintenance
Project was the result of the re-appraisal in October 1978, of the first
highway project approved in 1968. The First Road Maintenance Project
became effective in December 1979. It's main objectives were,
i) to recoup the backlog of periodic maintenance on about 350 km
of roads and 30 bridges and to introduce enhanced and periodic
maintenance practices, and
ii)  to lay the foundation for improved maintenance planning, based
on a systematic data collection and analysis of traffic and costs.
These objectives were to be supported by the provision of equipment,
spares, workshop equipment and technical assistance.



- 3 
2.02     The Bank's main concern during project preparation was the lack of
a firm long term highway development plan, most projects originating from
the needs or desires of the public, usually channelled through Members of
Parliament. Planning of highway maintenance was based on past patterns and
obvious needs without reference to traffic loads, experienced or expected
on particular routes. The inadequacy of funds allocated annually for road
maintenance was also viewed with concern and noted that GOSL should sim at
double the allocation per mile, ao as to allow minimal correct routine and
periodic maintenance.
2.03     Following a change of Government in 1977, and organisation changes,
DOH was finally placed under a separate Ministry of Highways in May 1980.
The Workshops and plant which were shared by the Department of Irrigation
(DOI) and DOW were separated, the lion's share of workshops and plant going
to the DOI in view of the emphasis given to the accelerated Mahaweli
Development scheme. This left DOH with no central workshop and incomplete
regional workshops. The need to build ap these workshops and provide
technical assistance, was essential.
2.04     A loan for U.S $ 16.5 million was approved.  The approved project
elements and their costs, as they appear in the appraisal report, are shown
in the Table on the following page.
2.05     Works were expected to be completed in December 1983, but due to
set backs in the implementation, the project was extended to be completed
in December 1985, and disbursements finalised in March 1986.



- 4     -
( SL Rs milllon )        ( US $ million )
Item                  Local  Foreign   Total      Local  Foreign   Total
I.   Equipment & Tools 5.55   74.06    79.61       0.35    4.69      5.04
II.  Spares & Supplies 0.65    9.47    10.12       0.04    0.60      0.64
III. Materials         9.84   21.94    31.78       0.62    1.39      2.01
IV.  Technical
Assistance        1.75   16.45    18.20       0.11    1.04      1.15
V.   Contract Works   51.82   50.98   102.80        3.28    3.23     6.51
Total I - V    130.55  172.90   303.45       8.25   10.95    19.20
Contingencies
a)   Physical         12.80   13.75    26.55       0.81    0.87      1.68
b)   Provision for
Price increases  39.98   25.12    65.10       2.53    1.59      4.12
Total        183.33  211.77   395.10      11.59   13.41    25.00
Taxes & Duty       59.20      -      59.20      3.75      -       3.75
GRAND TOTAL       242.53  211.77   454.30      15.34   13.41    28.75



-5-
III.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Procurement of Equipment and Sgare Parts
3.01     The Highway and Bridge equipment, materials and spare parts and
workshop equipment were procured in Eleven Bids. The type of equipment,
the quantity and cost are given in Table No. 1. The procurement of equipment
and spare parts had to face several set backs as a result of the reduction
In the allocation of money from Rs. 85 million to Rs. 20 million in 1981.
The equipment and spare parts that had to be procured for the commencement
of the civil works had to be revised and phased out, tthereby resulting in a
set back to the overall progress of the project. The revised list was
finalised during March 1981.
B. Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
3.02     The project provided for the rehabilitation and limited
improvements to about 112 Mls (180 Km.) of road. Details of work carried out
are listed in Tables Nos. 2 and 3. A total of 118 Mls.-has been completed.
3.03     The road rehabilitation and improvement work envisaged large scale
participation by private Contractors and a fair amount of work was ear-
marked to be carried out by private contractors. Furthermore, it was also
expected that foreign consulting engineers and contractors too, would
undertake work under the project. However, private contractor participation
was not forthcoming. This may be attributed to the fact thac in Sri Lanka,
in the past, road and bridge works have been almost entirely executed by
Government sector organisations. The private sector contractors therefore,
have had no opportunity to acquire the necessary experience and plant and
equipment required for the jobs.  The DOW  was virtually compelled to carry
out road rehabilitation and improvements works on force account. The private
sector contractors who  have had experience in earthworks, were offerel
technical assistance and availability of road making equipment on hire and
bituminous materials by the DOH in order to make them accept road works.
As a result, during the latter stages of the project, road rehabilitation
works on Anuradhapura Padeniya Road and Kandy Katugastota Road, were awarded
to local private contractors. These items are given in the annexed Table No.3.
The supervision of these projects were intially carried out by DOH personnel,
and later entrusted to private consulting engineers. However, it has to be
noted that the performance of both private contractors and consulting
engineers, fell far below expectations, in that a few of these projects are



- 6     -
still being carried out under funds allocated by DOH. The non completion
of the projects according to targets by private contractors, was caused
mainly by the organisational and financial weakness of the contractors.
The supervision of the projects by private consulting engineers too, did
not meet the expectations of the DOH, mainly due to the non availaibility
of suitably experienced site staff, and frequent replacement of site staff.
In order to expedite the progress of these works, as well as to avoid further
delays and cost increases, successive well intentional measures were taken,
such as, (i) granting extensions of time for the completion of works,
(ii) postponing. recovery of advance payments, (iii) altering the scope of
work, i.e. deletion of DBST from the Contract, (subsequently to be carried
out by the RDA) , as the contractors lacked expertise in the field carrying
out surface dressing and finally, (iv) taking over the supervision of the
Works by the DOW and subsequentl:j>> Xthe RDA, with the transfer of functions
of DOH to RDA.
C. Repair and Replacement of Bridges
3.04     The project provided for the strengthening, repairing or replacement
of 30 bridges. The implementation of the bridge programme has been
satisfactory. An additional 10 bridges which were proposed to be taken under
the World Bank Second Roads Project were transferred to the first Project.
The items are given in the annexed Table No. 4.
3.05     As mentioned earlier, state sector organisations, i.e. State
Development and Construction Corporation (SD & CC) and the State Engineering
Corporation (SEC), were the main Bridge building orgaaisations in the
country. Private contractors who had experience in reinforced concrete
work in the building industry, and the irrigation sector, were encouraged
to venture into bridge building activities with the necessary techncial
assistance and guidance by the DOH. In order to assist such contractors,
DOH agreed to provide the necessary prestressed concrete beams and precast
components, thus relieving the Contractors of the setting up of organisation
for precasting bridge beams, which would have tied up their resouces
considerably.
3.06     Construction of seven bridges was awarded to private contractors.
A period of consturuction of 18 mornths, which was considered reasonable,
taking into consideration the limited resources and manpower available with
the private contractors, was allowed.



- 7    -
The completion date of some of these bridges extended beyond the date of
completion of the project. It is intended to complete them with Mo0 funds.
3.07     A total of seven other bridges was executed by the state sector
organisations of S.D & C.C. and the S.B.C. The balance 26 minor bridges
were carried out on fozce account.
3.08     At the extended date of completion of the First Roads Project.
i.e. 31st December, 1985, a total of 6 bridges remained incomplete.
These bridges are expected to be completed with MDR funds.
D. Improved Periodic and Routine Maintenance
3.10     Under the Improved Periodic gAdnRoutine Maintenance programme, about
15Q Mls. of road were to be resurfaced or resealed. This target has been
achieved anddincludes. 15.5:-1ls. overlayed with asphalt concrete. Details are
given in annexed Tables Nos. .5 (1 to 3) and 6.
The Improved Periodic and Routine Maintenance Programme envisaged extensive
use of asphalt emulsions, suitable varieties of which were presumed to be
available in Sri Lanka. Since the asphalt emulsion of the required
specification was not in production at the time, an emulsion manufacturing
plant was set up to produce the required cationic emulsion. Until the plant
went into production, the requirement of emulsion was imported into the
country.
3.11     Periodic and Routine Maintenance work using equipment and improved
methods could only be implemented in 1981, with the arrival of the equipment.
Training courses for road maintenance overseers, commenced in Septembe- 1980.
Seminars and workshops for Executive Engineers and graduate engineers were
also conducted in order to motivate them to improve road maintenance
activities through proper planning, supervision and effective use of man,
materials and equipment.
3.12     Altogether 57 sets of equipment for routine maintenance consisting
of 1 plate compactor, 1 mechanical tamper and 1 emulsion sprayer were
distributed among the Executive Engineers' divisions. On the job training
of bituminous surface patching using these equipment and improved methods,
were given to patching crews.



- 8 -
3.13     Two crushers purchased under the Project went into production
of aggregates for Surface dressing and premix overlay work. Surface
dressing using the special mechanised unit- for surface dressing were
carried out on Colombo Galle Road. Subsequently, use of pre coated chips
was introduced with t.very .successful results with marked improvements to
the riding quality and skid resistance.
3.14     In lieu of the scheduled rehabilitation of Route A3 - miles 46 to
Puttalam, in the original programme, improved periodic maintenance roads
in the Colombo District using premix overlay, commenced in March 1983.
A total length of 20 Mls.of roads around Colombo was. selected for this
programme. The work was carried out initially by the Construction Division
of DOW. Three Contracts for the surface rectification and premix overlay
on 3 sections of roads, utilising DOH equipment on hire, were awarded to a
private contractor. However, due to unsatisfactory progress, these contracts
were terminated and the workMwas completed by the RDA. Further set backs
in the implementation of the overlay programme arose as a result of the
trenching operations for laying of water and sewerage pipes along these roads.
Finally only about 15-.5Mls of roads have been overlayed with asphalt concrete.
I. Technical Assistance
3.15     The technical assistance financed under the loan was provided by
Kampsax International A/S, a Danish firm of Consultants. Throughout their
assignment, the consultants maintained an excellent relationship with the
Borrower; the DOE counterparts participated actively in the programme and
benefited from the transfer of knowledge derived from such participation.
3.16     Under the-terms of reference of the Technical Assistance team,
technical assistance in the following aspects of work were rendered to DOE.
3 16.1  Review of Contract Docu..nt4sxand Specifications for Road Works :
The existing form of contract document and specifications of the
Djti were reviewed and with the consultation of DOH staff, Conditions of
C-tLract and Specification for Road and Bridge Construction, were prepared.
3.;?     Precqualification and Review of Contractors :
A list of Contractors prequalified for road and bridge works of
t'  tOH, was prepared.



-9-
3.18     Assistance with Bridge and Pavement Design :
The Consultant provided the services of a bridge engineer and a
pavement eigineer to the DOH.  Their assignments were completed in
December 1980.
3.19     Vehicle and Equipment Procurement :
Specifications for equipment to be procured and procurement
documents were prepared by the Consultants in conjunction with DOH staff.
Evaluation of bids and revision of requirements, were also undertaken.
3.20     Improvement of Workshop Facilities :
Advlce and assistance have been given to DOE staff in the preparation
of equipment inventory, organisation of regional workshops. Advice on the
installation of workshop equipment and training of workshop staff, have also
been rendered.
3.21     Preparation of Road Rehabilitation Contracts :
Assistance was given in the preparation and production of documents
for bridge rehabilitation and construction contrarocs.
3.22     Planning and Organisation of a Demonstration Road Maintenance District :
Colombo Region comprising 7 Divisions has been designated Pilot
demonstration Region and improved routine and periodic maintenance operations
with new equipment, was introduced.
Two crews trained in the operation of the surface dressing equipment, were
set up and went into operation in the Kalutara and Gampaha regions. However,
little progress was achieved in this work due to limited funds being available
towards the end of 1980, and beginning of 1981.
3.23     Assistance with Highway Investment Planning and Maintenance Planning :
The consultants have advised and assisted in the carrying out of a
road maintenance inventory for the whole island, and training was given to
field staff in the analysis of the inventory from which, both routine and
periodic maintenance programmes were identified. A programme has been worked
out in consultation with the DOH on the basis of the maintenance inventory,
for 190 km. of periodic maintenance for Colombo and other regions. This work
I 1  1  equently taken over by the Traffic and Planning Section of DOH.



- 10 -
3.24     Improvement of DOH PlannJng Capabilities :
A comprehensive and island-wide traffic counting programme was
conducted with the assistance of the Consultants. Training of enumerators
and supervisory staff in traffic counting has been given. Manual
classification counts at the 120 stations were completed at the end of
July 1981.  With the introduction of automatic traffic counters, the 30           1
point census progressed satisfactorily. The Consultants' Planning Engineer
completed his assignment in May 1982. Proposals have been made for
feasibility analysis of projects prior to their inclusion in a medium term
investment programme and cost accounting procedures.                              4
3.25     The services of the Mechanical Superintendent were extended to
30th June, 1985. Local personnel were trained in the operation of the plant
and production of emulsion, and proper methods and techniques in the use of   a
emulsion in road maintenance, were introduced with the technical assistance
of ScanRoad International. An Engineer from the supplier of Bailey Bridging
equipment, carried out a programe to train local personnel in the use of
Emergency Bailey Bridging. A seminar for local engineers, was conducted by d
him at the end of his assignment.
F.  Technical and Financial Audit
3.26     Coasidering the fact that most of the works were being carried out   4
'in house' by force account, visiting Bank Missions were of the opinion,
that sufficient attention was not being paid towards Technical and Finaucial
Control of the works. Rence, on their advice, a Technical and Financial
Audit (TPA) was set up under the Ministry of Highways, independent of DOH,
to constantly monitor the on-going works. The TPF was headed by a Senior
Retired Engineer, who with the assistance of the Chief Engineer (Research
and Development) carried out regular inspections and investigations of the
project work in the Divisions, in order to ensure better quality control          4
.f the work.
The establish*mnt of a TF4 under the Second Roads Project under
the MOE has been required by, the Bank in order to ensure that generally
accepted technical standards are appli6d in the planning and design of
;roject work, supervision is adequate to ensure those standards are reached,
.nd that the work is conducted with due regard to both sound engineering



- 11 -
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND DISBURSEMENTS
4.01     A comparison of appraisal estimates 4nd estimated final costs
is shown in Table No.7 . The final cost of the project is estimated at
US $ 25.50 million, 11.30 below the appraisal estimate of US $ 28.75 million.
This decrease can be attributed to the delay in procurement of equipment and
machinery in time for the commencement of the Project, non availability of
appropriate Bituminous emulsions in the country & as a result the necessity of
having to set up an emulsion plant for the manufacture of emulsion. However, the
hiacal tar8ets of road and bridge rehabilitation have been exceeded.
9.o2     Disbursement lagged behind appraisal estimates from the start of
the project (Table No.8 ). Of the Credit of U.S $ 16.5 million, withdrawals
under each category up to December 31, 1984, had amounted to only
U.S. 9.82 million as against an estimate of U.S $ 14.0 million. The shortfall
in withdrawals from the Credit could be attributed to the following reasons -
a) Credit for Civil Works amounting to U.S $ 4.88 million was
computed at a time when the exchange rate was Rs. 15.80 per
U.S $, whereas when bulk of the applications fr withdrawals
was made, it was in the region of Rs. 25.00.
b) Bulk of the construction work was done by force account
and local contractors,and such expenditure did not qualify
for higher rates of reimbursement.
c) There had been a delay in making applications to the IDA
for withdrawals due to the delay in the flow of information
regarding expenditure from the Regional Chief Engineers,
necessary for analysis and preparation of applications.
Loan funds were disbursed up to March 31, 1986. Balance works under
the project are proceeding with finance provided through the Consolidated
Pund of GOSL.
V. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION AND BENEFITS
5.01     The project was designed to prevent further deterioration of Sri
Lanka's vital road network which serves the main centres of economic activity.
Most of the road sections selected for rehabilitation had exceeded their
economic life and were steadily deteriorating due mainly to insufficient
allocation for maintenance and improvements.



- 12 -
The objectlves of the project which were to facilitate the movemeat of goods I
and passengers and reduce transport costs, were reallsed. The benefits
derived were in the form of -
(a)    reduction in vehicle operating costs resulting from road
rehabilitation and improvement and bridge replaceaent
and repairs;
(b)    arresting further deterioration of about 175 ka. of roads
rehabilitated and furtther 240 km. of roads where liproved
routine and periodic maintenaaoe were carried out;
(c)    the 40 bridges rehabilitated by replacement or repair avolded
closures of roads and possible accidents due to bridge failures.
(d)    Introduction of Improved technAques of routine and periodic
maintenance, use of proper equipment and materials, such as
emulsion inimaintenance work, thereby effecting reduction in
overall maintenance costs;
(e)    the workshop equipment and spares purchased under the project,
as well as the reorganisation and establisbment of Central and
regional workshops and training personnel to man the workshops,
resulted in higher availability and utilisation of equipment;
and
(f)   Improved highway planning and management.
5.02     For the purpose of the economic re-evaluation of the Project,
the economic rate of return (ERR) has been calculated separately for
the following categories of the items :
(a)    Rehabilitation of Roads
(b)    Improved Periodic Maintenance - Sealing
(c)    Improved Periodic Maintenance - Asphalt Overlay
(d)    Rehabilitation of Bridges                                                 4
by estimating the economic costs and benefits of all the individual items
and summing up the discounted costs and benefits for each category
separately.
For the purpose of estimating the discounted costs and benefits, the               4
following broad assumptions were made.
(a)    Economic cost was taken as 91.1 X of the Financial Cost.
(b)    Average vehicle composition for project roads was taken as
45% cars and vans, 301 Buses and 25% trucks.
-'    (c)     1i f^-m        h -      -   ff1     



-   13  -
(d)    Benefits due to reduction of Vehicle Operating Costs (VOC) due
to reduced roughness was calculated based on values given in
Table 9. The decrease in roughness and useful life of road
surfacing was assumed as given below :
Type of Improvement         Roughneso value (mm/km)       Useful life
Before       After         of Surfacing
Asphalt Overlay                4800          2000         15 years
Double Bitumen Surface
Dressing (DBST)                5000          3200          8 years
Single Bitumen Surface
Dressing (SBSI)                5000          3800          6 years
Sand Seal                      5000          4000          3 years
(e)    Benefits for Bridge Rehabilitation was calculated on the basis
of increased VOC due to additional travel distances assuming
a condition of collapse after 3 years.
The economic re-evaluation of the Project yielded anX estimated ERR
as given below :
Type of Rehabilitation or           Valute of ERR       Value of ERR with
I&proved Periodic Maintenance           %               25% reduction in
Benefits - X
a) Rehabilitiation of Roads            22.60                  9.84
b) Improved Periodic
Maintenance - Resealing            139.17                102.81
c) Improved Periodic
Maintenance - Asphalt Overlay    180.36                  136.30
d) Rehabilitation of Brilges          129.59                116.67
In comparison the corresponding figures expected at the appraisal of the
Project ar. : Rehabilitation of Roads of 29%, Improved Periodic
Maintenance of 56% and Bridge Rehabilitation of 45%, with a weighted
average IRR for the whole project of 36%.



_ 14 -
5,03     The benefits quant'fied for the economic re-evaluation
are mostly savings in transport cost.s and benefits due to savings
in travel -ime a"td red' ';lion in road maintenance costs, have been
ignored. The details of the annual benefits, net present values
and ERR computation, are given in Table 10 (a), 10 (b), 10 (c)
and 10 (d).
5;04     The economic re-evaluation based upor the estimate of
quantifiable benefits. confirms the justification of the project, the
expected returns are well above the appraisal estimates. In the case
of the Improved Periodic Maintenance by effecting minor Improvements
and resealing. the ERR was rather higher than expected. This may be
attributed to the fact that the minor improvements and resealing have
been carried out only on sections rather than the entire length of the
road section. as specified. In view of this, the ERR was calculated
for a 25X reduction in benefits. These values are given in
Tables 11 (a), 11 (b) , 11 (c).jsP 1ld).
5.05     The trucking industry plays a key role 1a the distribution of
industrial raw materials, collection and transport of cash crops for
export and distribution of agricultural produce, thus effecting the
welfare of the entire population. The transport savings made possibleiby
the project, were passed on to the consumer in th6 form of lower prices
and increased r'oduce availability. This was not reflected as reduction
in the actual price of consumer goods, since in the mean time, fuel costs
have escalated. In passenger transport, bus transport (SLTB) make up 30 -
40S of the total traffic flow. The fares of public transport, is fixed
by the Government and the private transport usually follow SLCTB rates.
and therefore, the transport savings would accrue at first to the bus
owners, both public and private. Benefits accrued to the commuters were
in the form of deferred increases in the fares in the face of fuel costs,
and other increases. The roachrehabilitated were selected on the basis
of the road inventory data and improved routine and periodic maintenance
were introduced on roads carrying heavy traffic. The bridges rebabilitated
have been selected on the basis of highest relative priorities, in all
parts of the island. Thus the benefits of the project were able to reach
as large a proportion of the population as possible, and to increase
economic activity at the national level.



- 15   -
5.06     The first and only National Traffic Census had been carried out in
1961, thereafter only ad hoc counts have been carried out on specific projects.
Under the programe of technical assistance, a traffic counting programae
was carried out. A national census was conducted at 120 stations in 1980/81.
In addition to the national census at the 120 stations, where a classified
manual count was taken, a programme of machine cuants using Automatic Traffic
Recorders was also initiated at 34 locations. Available data indicate that
between 1978 and 1984, the traffic volumes increased by 3 to 8S p.a.
depending on the location.  The largest increases were accounted for by mini
buses, After the introdUction of an import liberalisation policy by the
Government in 1977. Between 1976 an4A 1981, the total number of vehicles
increased at 4X p.a. During the same period, the volume of auto diesel and
petrol sales increased by 5X p.a.
5.07     DON gained much benefits from the technical assistance programme
under the project. Of special interest was the setting up and equipping
one district to carry out periodic maintenance (resealing and resurfacing)
in a satisfactory manner. This district was intended to act as a training
focus from vl _ch improved periodic work methods and routine maintenance
work methods can spread throughout the island. Training of two resealing
crews took place in the pilot district in the latter part of 1982 and
tLrough 1983.  since May 1984, 250 technical personnel from 9 districts
were trained in the use of emulsion in road maintenance. This proved very.
successful. The benefits derived from the provision of technical assistance
under the project were rendered somewhat ineffective due to a series of
institutional changes in the administration of highways in the island.
These are dealt with in detail in Section VII.
5.08     As a result of the first Roads Project, road maintenance is now
being carried out with better equipped and better trained operatives.



-   16  -
VI.   ROLE OF THE BANK
6.01    The Bank contributed significantly during project identification
and preparation, and particularly in the preparatory work of the project.
There were altogether about seventeen missions visiting Sri Lanka from the
project preparatory stages right through to the project completion stages.
During these missions, the Bank reviewed in detail the various stages of
the project. One of the main concerns of the Bank was whether the training
that has been given to the DOH staff and equipment provided under the
project, has had any significant effect on the work standards.
Although the Bank mission of December 1982, concluded after five days of
field inspections that so far as the traditional road maintenance operations
of pothole patching, sand seals and roadside drainage amintenance are
concerned, the standard of operations, show little improvement to what was
seen prior to project appraisal With the arrival of equipment and use of
emulsion, subsequent Bank missiorsfound improved methods implemented.
The Bank also stressed on the early establishment of regional materials
laboratories, the emulsion plant and the requirements of audit,
6.02    Since the project accounting structure had never been laid down,
nor the credit agreement altered to reflect force account operations, the
Bank found that it was entirely reasonable for DOH to use it's own
accounting procedures.
6.03    As a means to reinforce and secure the benefits from the first
project, a follow-on Second Road Maintenance Project was planned by the
World Bank for PY 84. With the completion of the rosd inventory data,
latest traffic data and the road investment plan under the first project,
IDA tentatively planned to appraise a second road maintenance project in
April 1983. In order to accelerate the implementation of the second roads
project, and increase disbursement, which had fallen behind estimates, of
the first project, the equipment required for the planned overlay and
resealing programme of the Second Project, was authoriaed to be procured
using the proceeds of Credit 900-CE.



_    17    -
VII.  PERFORMANCE OP FUE BORROWER
7.01      The importance of the project was recognised by GOSL.  Although
funding for road maintenance has been inadequate ir the past, a firm
commitment was made to rehablitation of the existing network of roads
before embarking on new construction. During the project period and as
well as at present, .o major capital investments have been undertaken,
other than access roads to project sites under Mahaweli Development Project
and relocation of sections of road submerged by the reservoirs.
The budgeted capital expenditure has been utilised for urgent works on the
existing network, bridge replacements and emergency bridge widening or repair.
7.02      Road maintenance expenditures are shown in Table 13.. As a result
of the road maintenance project under review, planning and appraisal of
works have been improved although progress was slow due to the absence of
any road inventory.  Road inventory data have now been assembled and a
system of regular traffic counting has been set up. This work was carried
out under the Chief Engineer (Traffic and Planning) of DOH. This data provided
the basis of work planning for the Second Roads Project and provided the
basis for the five year programme of road rehabilitation and maintenance.
A medium Term Rehabilitation Programme and increased allocations for road
maintenance was drawn up for implementation,funded partly by external donors
Lncluding-IBRD 4 ADR, !and the rest from general revenue - Table 14.
7.03      There were many changes in the administration of highways since
the project appraisal. This had significant bearing in the performance of
the Borrower. Up to 1969, activities in both roads and buildings were
carried out by the Public Works Department. In 1969, they were divided
between DOH and the Buildings Department. During 1970 - 1978, DOH was
controlled by the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways. GOSL policy
at that time did not favour the private sector, and thus practically all
work was by force account through three Government agencies; namely, State
Development and Construction Corporation (SD&CC), the Territorial Civil
Engineering Organisation(TCBO), and the Department of Machinery and
Equipment (DHE). S.D & C.C. underto*k bridge construction for DOH and still
does on a contract basis; TCEO maintained the road system and also carried
out irrigation works, and DME, procured,allocated, operated and maintained
all plant, vehicles and equipment for highways, bridges, irrigation and
power projects.



_ 18 _
7.04      Pollowing a change of government in 1978, irrigation works were
placed under a separate ministry, leaving DOH under the Ministry of Power and
Highways. Finally, in May 1980, there was a further separation and DON came
under the control of the Ministry of Highways. Radical reorganisations took
place in S.D & C.C, T.C.E.O. and D.M.E. The TCEO was closed down and its
functions divided between Highways and Irrigation. With the emphasis being
given St that time to early completion of the Mahaweli Project, Irrigation
received the lion's share of workshops and plant and DOW was left with no central
workshop and ill-equippped regional workshops. DOH functioned under the
Director of Highways assisted by three Zonal Directors, to control the principal
field operations of highway and bridge construction and maintenance, which were
carried out through z2 Chief Engineers, assisted by Executive Engineers and
Technical Officers.
7.05      In 1981, GOSL enacted the Road Development authority Act(No. 73)
setting up a Road Develoment Authority (RDA), under the control of the
Ministry of Highways. It functioned under a ten member committee advised
by a Road Development Advisory Council. By designating a Road Development
Area. the Minister empowered the RDA to carry out, within that area, many
of the functions otherwise done by DOW. RDA could charge fees for its
services and fix the wages and salaries and conditions of service of its
staff. In this way RDA could offer incentives to able engineers unlike in
the DOH. A strict client/contractor relationship was maintained when RDA
acted as a Contractor to MOH. In order to help set up RDA's administrative
and accounting framework and to establish the procedures and practices that
would enable it to adopt a contracting mentality, RDA had the services of an
expatriate firm as it's management advisor.
7.06      Prior to 1985, maintenance was carried out by Direct labour. As a
major step towards executing routine maintenance work under a "quasi-contract
system", in December 1984, 23.000 salaried road maintenance workmen of DOW
were terminated. The road oversees while retaining their employee status,
were allowed the facility to undertake maintenance on a Contract basis.
The road overseers were renamed Road Maintenance Agents (RMA).
7.07      During 1985. several committees were set up to study the
devel.pment of a more appropriate organisation to execute the tasks
curreittly assigned by MOM to DOWH and RDA. Finally on I January 1986, the
functi.uns of DOW was transferred to an expanded RDA, which comprises :



-  19   -
Office of the Chairman
Office of the General Manager
Seven Operating Divisions - Works
- Maintenance
- Construction Management & Contracts
- Engineering Services
- Finance
- Personnel and Administration
- Research and Development
Bach of the Divisions are headed by a Director. The organisation is presented
diagramatically in Table 15.
7.08      The road maintenance division comprises at the Provincial level,
of nine Provincial Directors each with a general supervisory responsibility
for 2 to 3 Districts, and administrative responsibility for a Provincial
laboratory and a Provincial Mechanical Workshop, at the District level of
22 Chief Engineers under whom will function 3 to 4 Executive Engineers,
who will in turn have 4 to 5 maintenance units each under a Road Maintenance
Contractor (RMC).
7.09      The project management division which functioned under the
Deputy Director (Planning and Programming) in the DOR was transferred in
its entirety to the Director (Construction Management and contracts) of
the RDA.   A Project-Co-ordinator handles the administration of the project.
7.10      The financial management and budgetary controls and procedures of
the project was carried out according to system adopted by ther DOR for all
works under its execution. Due to inevitable delays, proper accounting and
prompt disbursements could not be maintained. At present, a separate
accounting unit is managing the financial control of the second roads project
with the assistance of the TFA.



- 20 -
VII.   CONCLUSIONS
8.01      The project was successful in improving periodic maintenance
of the trunk road network including bridges and in strengthening the
institutions concerned with transport infrastructure. Through the
implementation of the project, better equipped workshops and quality
control laboratories both central and regional were established. One of
the most significant achievements of the project, was the introduction
of bituminous emulsions on a large scale in routine and periodic
maintenance. Trainingin bitumen emulsion technology and equipment fleet
management through technical assistance was of great benefit to the DOH.
With the compilation of road inventory data and setting up of a system of
regular traffic counting, planning and appraisal of work capability of DOR
has improved. This information provided the basis for work planning for
the second roads project, as well as identifying sections of road requiring
major rehabilitation and maintenance work in the next five years.
8.02      Most highways were built many years ago and since have had very
little improvements. A number of bridges were structurally unsound and too
narrow for traffic and there were lengths of highways throughout the island
where pavement failures have occured or were iminent. These factors
combined to cause low average traffic speeds, high operating costs and
frequently dangerous conditions. Sound maintenance and substantial
rehabilitation were an urgent need to prevent further serious deterioration.
Hence, the assessment of the Highway sector problems and priorities and the
resultant project of road maintenance and rehabilitation, has been
appropriate and very useful.
8.03      As stated earlier, the Bank made several periodic reviews of
project implementation. These comments and recommendations have been very
helpful. It was most helpful in that some of the reviewing staff have been
also responsible for project appraisal and preparation. The reviewing
missions also viewed favourably the reorganisation of DOH and the
establishment of the RDA and was willing to play a keen role in shaping
the new authority.



- 21 -
SRI LANKA                                             TABLE   1(1)
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT(CREDIT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RaXmmi   saw=   -  FIFST  RAD  PawEcT, cRmrr ND. 9DD  -  CE
INE           DESCRIPTION                             BID  NO  &  tLIANrITY           IST1MATD    R04WIS
Higway & Bridge EB ipt    & Material    1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10 11   TOML US S
1   Air Qmpressor 120 litre/sec                   2                                   26,703
_A  Ompressed Air Tool (air drills etc)       2                                        4,335
2  Air Spraypaint a Metal Crushing Equipt. 1         1                                20,100
3   Sandblating    uent                      -1      1 _                  _18,343
4   Moile Asphalt Batdc  Mber 50/60 tph.                         1                   362 709
5  Asphalt mobile Batdc  Mix 7-12 tph.        1                                      122,003
6   Ditupen Distributor Truck 4500 litre      2                                       96,935
7   Bitumen Enilsion Sprayer . TrIUe         57                                       65,862
8   Asphalt Paver, Crawler Monted                                1                    83,883
9  Asphalt Paver, Weel Mtbuted                                                                  Canoelled
10 8itumen Preater Traller 4500 litre    2_                                            80,928
1    B1 ituen Heater & Sprayer Self Propelled _i                                      29 _  _  1_  __  239,    
12  Asphalt Crncrete Mixer : 400 litre        45                                      505,936
13   Chip Spreader (Drawn)                     2  1                                    34,932
14   8atch Drum Mixer   400 litre                    16                                70,140
15   Batch Turbo Mixer : 500 litre             1                                       74,875
16   Concrete Dunper : 1 5bnem                 6     10_          _                    67,300
17   Shutter Vibrator (Electric)                                                 __Cancelled
18   Pipe Spinner tuto 72- dlameter            _      _     ____                                 Cancelled
19   Poker Vibrator : 25 mm                       10                                    5,8C0
20  Poker Vibrator : 50 m                         10                                    6,200    _
21   Mbbile Crane (Hydraulic) 25 Tnem         _      1                                 85,950
22   Crawler Crane : 20 Ibnne (Min)                                                              Cancelled
23   Crawler Crane : 22 Tobnne                 _      _  _  _  _  1 _       _         102,600    _a__u__
24  Mbtor Grader : 80BHP                       _      _  _  _  _  _  _      _  _                 Cancelled
25  Motor Cycle                                7     28                                25,235
26   Pidk-Up : 3/4 Tonne                             35                               174,306    __         .
27   Pidk-Up : 1 1/2 Torna                     20                                     146,450
28   Pick-Up : 3/4 Tanme Double Cab            _      _           7 _       _  _       37,650   Purchase
29   Lorry Dropside : 5 Tonne                         5                                64,825
30  lorry Dropside : (5 Tonne) w/Crane         2                                       74,500
31   Lorry  I(SrOper Type)                            1                                182,700
32   Lorry : Wrecker                                  1                                23,360   _
33  lorry   Tipper : 3 Tonne                          6 __           _      _             ,616  |
34   Lorry : Tipper : 7 Tcrns                  13     _           10_  _      _       455,950
35   Truck with Fuel Tank, 5S0  litres                   -          1                   17,200
36   Lorry : Water Fcwser, SOO  litres                                             ________ __    Cancelled
37  Truck : 32 Tonne GM Tractor                1  _ _
38   Low-bed Trailer : 20 Tbnne
39   Driving Kit                                                                   _             Cancelled
40   Powr Plant 10 Xi                              2                         __         22,800
41   Quarry Plant : 25 Tonne/Hour              1  1                                   493,00 |
42   Portab. Crush. a Screen. Plant 50,'60tph                     1                   204,880
43   Tandem Poller Vibrator : 3 to 7  bonne   1                                         28,100
44   Tandem Boller Vibrator : 7 Tbnne                              1                    28,200
45   Vibrating Plate Tzaper : 170 jG           57 2 __                                 151,379
46   Vibrating Plate Tamper : 110 KG                              15                   20,CoO0 |
47   Vibr.itry R,,nimmr : 60 YG                57    25    _       5                   64,0a0



ruiLQ?kN±  bUIkUA..k  -  1F'IiRSi  'LAD  iLWTr,  CREkDiT  ND. 900  -  CE    TABLE 1(2)
LE            DESCRIPTION                             BD   NO  & (pWl'Y               EDSTIT       P RS
Highway b Bridge Equipent 6tMaterial    1  213141516  718191    11   1IOL US
48   Pneu. Tyred filler, Self Propelled        2                                       66,594 6   _7
49   Pneu. Tyred Foller, Self Propelled                           1                    31_670_ 31,670
So  foller, Single Drun, Pedes. qperated                         15                    38,C00
51   Tractor Loader Broom                      2                                       54,487
52  Ind. Trac. w/Potary Bornm & Brul Spray                        2                    38,000
53   Tractor Loader Badckte                       4                        - _        106,1W0    _
54   Front-End Wheeled Loader                I                    4 _l1,C00
55    Pile Haner                                                  1                    17,2C0
56   Pile EKtractor                            _   _   _       _   _   _   1   -       20,600
57   Sheet Piling & Accessories                __                    _611,CC0
58   Steel Scaffolding, Fittings & Access.   _   _   _   _     _   _   - _     _       43,000
59   Steel ib,nrmork b Accessories                                                               ca_o _______
60   Piling Frwe For Diesel Hammer                                                               Canclled
61   Diesel Pile Haner 4 Tone                                                                    Cancelled
62   Crare M&unted Drill Rig (0.5 Mp)         __     __________ Canlled
63   Light Boring Rig (0.4 NO)                    2                                   122,000
641 Dwatering Pump : 150 mm                       4                                    51,300
65   Bush Cutters 15 Nos.                           _                                   3,341 e
66  Emergency Bridging (28W0 ft.)                                                   1,192,993
67   Bitumen  muilsion Plant                   _         1 _  _  _  _                 367,5W
68   Bitumen Preheater (For Emulsion Plant)                 1                          96,6W
69   Bitumen &umls. (2=  drums @ 200 litres)                                                      (119,500)
- 70   Laboratory Equipment                                                  QtYPCtY 114616
71  Car, Sedan                                                                         22,80
72  Consul. contract Doc.-Kalutara Birdges                              x I    -
!~~~ _ __ __ __ __  _ _
73   Lathe : 2 netre centres                   1                                       57,000
74   Lathe : 1 metre centres                      4                                    76,600
75   Shaping Machine                           1  8                                    61,900
76   Brake Drum Lathe                          9                                      116,5C0
77   Brake Shoe Grinder                           9                                    57,5W
78   Radial Drill   38 mm                      1                                       14,7W0
79   Pillar Drill  20 mm                       1  1                                     5,2C0
80   Bench Drill    20 mn                      1  3                                     5,850
81  Valve Grinding Machine                     6                                       17,500
82   Tbol Grinder                                 9                                    11,150
83   50 Tonne Hydraulic Press                  9                                       20,100 )
84   Poer Hacksaw                              _  9_                                   15,200
85   Cylinder Head Grinder                     1  _                                     8,900
86   Diesel Injector Testing Kit                      9                                 5,400
87   Welding Transformer                       4  _  _                                  3,8C0
88   Welding Trailer (Diesel)                  6  _                                    37,000
89   Battery Charger                           9  _ _                                  11,950
90  Air Cmpressor, Static                      2  _  _         _                        3,100
91   Engine Repair Stand- __                                                       __ _  __  _     Cancelled
92   Ttolley Jacks   6 Tbnne                  18                                        9,800
93   Trolley Jacks   10 Tbnne                 18                                       13,7W0



- 23 -                              TABLE 1 (3)
hlk   k*wfkr  &kAJLE  - FI1W  f>D  PECr, CRIDIT ND. 900 - CE
LIM          DESCRIPTION                         D NID tD& 6LVWT1 alDHESS
HiiSay & Bridge Equipment & aterial   1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11   7DBL US $
94  Grirder HD: 12"                        9                                    8,950
95  High Pressure Washer                   6                                   17,400
96  Tyre Gauge & lnflator                  9 _ _ - _ _ _    - -  - _            2,3
97  Lube Unit Fbr 1.5 Tnne P.U.           -  9 - - - _  1 __ _    -            67,000
98  Storage Shelving                                                           19,720
99  SeWrd (Filing) Cabimts                 24 _1_   _                           6,1_        -
10  Stores Seord System (30 Cabinets)      30                                   20,7 __  __   2777
101  Gas Welding/Cuttrw  Set            _a_l_
102  Steel Red Q*boards                     30                                   3,35D
103  Dept. Iiignia                          _     __      _     __       _
104  Fire !utin_                                     ___s_er                              Cancelled
105  Milling M__d i_                              4                             67,400   with D!o]A
106   Fbtooying MadAic_                           2                              5,850
107  Typewriter Electric                          1                              1,040
108 -Oplicating Machn                                                                    Ca_ elled
109  Scarmor (Stencil)                            1_                             1,430
110  Microficde                                   10                             3,120   _      -
111  Service Hoist                                                                        Can_elled
112  Bailey Bridsing - Accessories                        Ot-  r   _200727
113  Double Cab Pickup Trucks                                7          I       38,363
114  Baxter Crusher Spares---                                                   3,116
_A  s== us _ I,676,739



- 24-                           TABLE 2
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROAD REHABILITATION
NAME OF ROAD AND LOCATION                         LENGTH   |       COST
MILES           SL Rs.
1. Maradankadawela Habarana Valachchenai
Road (Route A6)
Strengthening road platform and reseal.
i.  Miles 16 to 39                          24.0  )       7,160,145
ii.  Miles 40 to 46                            7.0  )
2.  Maradankadawela Habarana Valachchenai
Road (Route A6)
Carry out flood protection work and
reconstruction of causeway at
Mannampitiya                                     3.0            206,161
3.  Avissawella Ratton Nuwara Eliya Road
(Route A7)
Widening narrow sections and culverts,
strengthening road platform and
resealing
i.  Miles 73  to 79                            7.0         1,600,232
ii.  Miles 106 to 111                           6.0          1,016,128
4.  Colombo GalleRoad (Route A2)
Rectifying defects in surface drainage
from Dehiwela Bridge to Dehivela
Junction                                         1.0            471,942
5.  Colombo Galle Road (Route A2)
Rectifying faulty road geometry,
strengthening weak sections and
resealing miles 13 to 17                         5.0         2,239,363
6.  Peradeniva Gampola Road (Route A8)
Strengthening weak sections, improving
drainage and reseal surface                      6.0          2,307,855
7. Avissawella Ratnapura Pelmadulla
Beragala Road (Route A4)
Widening narrow sections and culverts,
strengthening road platform and resealing
i.  Miles 38.5  to 40                         1.5  )
ii.  Miles 70    to 85                        16.0  )      11,048,351
iii.  Miles 86    to 106                       21.0  )
iv.  Miles 107   to 116                       10.0  )
TOTAL.          107.5         26,050,177



-  25   -                                  TABLE 3
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ROAD REHABILITATION UNDER CONTRACT
Name of road and Location              Total        Cost          Remarks
Length      S   s
(Mil.es)    S   s
1. Anuradhapura Padeniya Road
Raising low sections, repaving
and resurfacing road
l. Miles 21 to 29                               3,050,000 1/ Incomplete. Contd.
by RDA.
ii. Miles 29 to 36                    1.1        2,150,000    Complete.
iii. Miles 36 to 45                    1.0        2,000,000    Complete.
lv. Miles  9 to 10                   2.0         4,950,000 1/ Incomplete. Contd.
by RDA.
v. Miles 11 to 12                   2.0         4,900,000 1/ Nearing completion.
vi. Miles 13 to 14                   2.0         4,900,000 1/ Incomplete. Contd.
by RDA.
2. Kandy Katugastota Road
Rectifying drainage defects
raising low sections and
resurfacing
i. Trincomalee Street
to Mahaiyawa                    1.0         3,500,000 1/ Nearing completion.
ii. Mahaiyawa to Katugastota         1.5        4,950,000 1/ Nearing completion.
TOTAL  :      10.6         30,400,000
1/   Estimated



26   -                                  TABLE  4 (1)
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRIDGE REHABILITATION
BRIDGE NO. AND LOCATION                             COST           REMARKS
SL Rs.
Contract - State Sector (SD &CC; SEC)
1. No. 31/3 on Thihagoda Kamburupiriya
Kotapola Road                                  1,446.750
2. No. 6/5 on Ratnapura Karawita Road             2,557,300
3. No. 69/3 on Colombo Galle Road                 3,872,800
4. Over Dutch Canal on Negombo Giriulla Road   1,595,200
5. No. 148/1 on C. R. W. B. Road                  5,800,000 1/   Nearing completion
6. No. 85/6 on Puttalam Anuradhapura Road         3,400,000 1/   Incomplete
7. No. 1/3 on Tawalama Neluwa Road                  812,900       Completed by RDA
Contract - Private Sector
8. No. 146/3, C. R. W. B. Road                    5,000,000 1/   Nearing completion
9. No. 55/2 on C. R. W. B. Road                   1,450,900
10. No. 4/1 on Colombo Hanwella Road               6,000,000 1/   Incomplete
11. No. 26/4 on Panadura Nambapana Road            2,400,000 1/   Nearing completion
12. No. 24/8 on Panadura Ratnapura Road            2,035,000 1/   Nearing completion
13. No. 25/3 on Puttalam Anuradhapura Road         3,400,000 1/   Nearing completioa
14. No. 15/15 on Hiniduma Opatha Road                305,700
Force Account
15. No. 48/8 on Colombo Kandy Road                   635,500
16. No. 80/4 on Peradeniya Badulla
Chenkaladi Road                                4,318,000
17. No. 13/5 on Negombo Veyangoda Road               938,400
18. No. 33/2 on Kurunegala  jarammala Road           150,500
19. No. 33/5 on  Kurunegala Narammala Road           444,750
20. No. 40/6 on Panadura Ratnapura Road            2,682,700
21. No. 67/3 on Colombo Kandy Road                 4,626,700
22. No. 6/4 on Udugama Hiniduma Road               2,795,800
23. No. 24/11 on Udugama Hiniduma Road             1,413,400
24. No. 5/3 on Udugama Hiniduma Road               1,476,500
25. No. 147/6 on Medawachchiya Mannar Road         1,019,300
26. No. 171/1 on C. R. W. B. Road                  1,692,600



TABLE 4 (2)
27 -
BRIDGE NO. AND LOCATION                            COST            REMARKS
27. No. 2/5 on Udugama Hinlduma Road                 296,450
28. No. 2/14 on Udugama Hiniduma Road                727,650
29. No. 6/8 on Udugama Hliniduma Road                404,600
30. No. 74/2 on Kandy Jaffna Road                  1,505,000
31. No. 4/3 on Tudella Pamunugama Road             1,573,600
32. No. 1/10 on Hiniduma Opatha Road                  197,400
33. No. 92112 on P.B.C. Road                          334,000
34. No. 22/6 on Nagoda Kalawellawa
Bellapitiya Road                                 850,900
35. No. 24/1 on N. K. B. Road                         374,000
36. No. 26/3 on N. K. B. Road                        272,950
37. No. 1/3 on Dehiwela Maharagama Road            1,455,000
38. No. 33/4 on Thiruwanaketiya Agalawatte
Road                                             994,600
39. No. 4/14 on Pelmadulla Nonagama Road           4,400,000
40  No. 34/4 on N. K. B. Road                         341,100
TOTAL  :          75,997,950
1/   Estimpted



- 28
TABLE 5 (1)
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CZ)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IMPROVED PERIODIC MAINTENANCE
NAME OF ROAD AND LOCATION                          ENGTH           COST
ILES
1. Welikada Kohilawatte Road MJ's 1,2 & 3            3.75            716,592
2. Kalapulvwawa Talangoma Road Miles 1 & 2            1.37           277,276
3. Kadawata Ragama welisara Road Miles 2 to 5         3.00           345,919
4. Moratuwa Piliyandala Road Miles 0 to 3             3.00           259,188
5. Koralavella Egoda Uyana Road Miles 0 to 3          3.00           257,224
6. Colombo Kandy Road Km. 109.5 to 116                4.00           569,643
7. [andy Rikillagaskada Ragala Road Km. 0 to 4       2.50            283.681
8. Kandy Jaffna Road Ku. 0 to 5                       3.10           477,485
9. Kadugannawa Gampola Road Miles 1 to 7.50           7.50           771,333
10. Aladenlya Iriyagama Road Miles 1.75 to 3.5         1.75           410,857
11. Aladeniya Irlyagama Road Miles 0 to 1.75           1.75           215,909
12. Badulla Karametiya Road Miles 4 to 10              7.00         1,076,421
13. Lower and Higher Indebedda Road Miles 3 to 1.3  1.32              274,550
14. Seal Coat work on Galle Road Moratuwa
Miles 5.25 to 12.00                                6.75            29,213
15. Subsequent Coat Bitumen surfacing on
Miles 134 to 135 on C. G. H. W. Road               2.00           163,000
16. Miles 136-138  and 152-159 on C.G.H.W. Road    11.00             1,180,309
17. Lowaya Road Miles 1, 2 and 3                       3.00            147,000
18. 160t Kile on C. G. H. W. Road                      1.00            64,000
19. Andella Tissa Road Miles 1 to 2                   2.00            158,000
20. Andella Tiss Road Miles 3 to 4                     2.00            158,000
21. Piliyandala Henamulla Road Km. 1 to 6              3.43           144,819
22. Aluthnuwara Padiyatalawa Road Miles 48 to 60    3.00              772,847
23. Colombo Galle Road Miles 41 to 43                  2.00           224,545
24. Single Seal Coat on Katunayake Veyangoda
Road Miles 3.26 to 5.00                           1.74            201,955
25. Single Seal CoRt on 13th & 15th miles
Negombo Mirigama Road                             2.00            239,003
26. Single Seal Coat between Miles 21 to 23.5
Negombo Giriulla Road                             2.50            299,960
C/P     5.46



TABLE 5 (2)
- 29  -
NAME OP  ROAD  AND  LOCATION                        LENGTH          COST
MILES
B/F     85.46
27. Single Seal Coat between 1.75 M.P. and
2.25 H.P. Negombo Aluthpola Road                 0.50            83.948
28. Single Seal Coat between 2.25 to 3.00 H.P.
Negombo Aluthpola Road                           0.75           123,254
29. Single Seal Coat to Miles 1 and 2 of
Welveriya Kirindivela Road                       2.00           217,434
30. Panadura Nambapana Ratnapura Road
Km. 65, 66, 67 and 68                            2.50           927,285
31. Seal Coat 28th Mile Colombo Galle Road           1.00            76,487
32. Seal Coat 38th Mile Colombo Galle Road           1.00           151,689
33. Nagoda Kalawellava Beliapitiya Road
Miles 18 to 20                                   2.00           118,946
34. Nagoda Kalawellawa Bellapitiya Road
1/2 mile near Crusher                            0.50           66,420
35. Colombo Ratnapura Wellawaya Batticaloa
Road Km. 59 to 62                                2.50           232,874
36. Double Seal Coat surfacing on Miles 51 and
52 Colombo Galle Road                            2.00          452,565
37. Double Seal Coat surfacing 1st mile
Makolz Udupila Road                              1.00           245.191
38. Seal Coat surfacing Miles 4 and 5 Nagoda
Kalawellawa Bellapitiya Road                     2.00          173,569
39. Seal Coat surfacing 10th Mile Horana
Aluthgama Road                                   1.00           108,555
40. Seal Coat surfacing Miles 11, 12 and 13
Horana Anguruwatota Road                         3.00           168,948
41. Seal Coat surfacing 1st Mile Horana
Aluthgama Road                                   1.00          468,768
42. Recambering, rehabilitation and Seal Coat
surfacing 20th Mile Colombo Horana Road          1.00           296,595
43. Seal Coat surfacing Miles 1.5 to 2.5
Panadura Nambapana Road                          1.00           198,952
44. Seal Coat surfacing 1st Mile Nahalla
Kalawellawa Road                                 1.00          164,712
45. Seal Coat surfacing 2nd Mile Wewala
Yalagoda Road                                    1.00          277,996
46. Seal Coat surfacing Miles 9 and 10
Kottawa Talagala Road                            2.00          276.151
47. Seal Coat surfacing Miles 8 and 9 Second
Stage (1.22 Miles) Kottawa Talagala Road         1.22          407,320
C/P     115.43



TABLE 5 (3)
NAME OF ROAD AND LOCATION                           LENGTH         COST
MILES
B/P       115.43
48. Seal Coat surfacing 3rd Mile
Palannaruwa Kindalpitiya Road                    1.00          247,440
49. Seal Coat surfacing with precoated chips
on Miles 2, 3 and 4 of Galanigama
Kumbukka Road                                    1.75          440,412
50. Seal Coat surfacing on Miles 1 and 2
Palannaruwa Kindelpitiya Road                    1.75          288,l00
51. Resealing 1st Mile Sri Somananda
Mawatha, Horvps                                  1.00          474,242
52. Resealing 1st Mile Sri Aryawilasa
Mawatha, Horana                                  1.00          279,267
53. Palhawatte Dickowita Road 1st and 2nd
Miles - ImprovedzMainteuance                     2.00          550,280
54. Colombo Galle Road Miles 13 to 17,
Seal coat work                                   5.00          885,156
55. Colo%bo Ratnapura Wellawaya Road
Km. 107 to 117 (Miles 67 to 73)                 10.00          350,084
56. Kottawa Talagala Road Miles 7 to 8
Seal Coat                                        2.00          204,662
57. Civil works in setting up Workshops,
Stores, Crushers and Emulsion Plant               -          5,400,337
58. Setting up of Field Laboratories,
Investigations and material testing               -          2,660,262
TOTAL  :           140.93       26;736,530



-    31    -                            TABLE  6
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IMPROVED PERIODIC- MAINTWINGES --.A3PHAU OVERLAY
NAME OF ROAD AND LOCATION                 LENGTH      COST          REMARKS
MILES
1. Colombo Galle Road, Dehiwela Bridge
to Dehiwela Junction                      1.1      3,258,300
2. Welikada Nawala Road                      1.6       1,296,800
3. Suddarama Road                            1.0       3,515,700
4. New Maligawatta Road                      0.5       1,701,800
5. Baseline Road from Stace Road
to Ingram Road                            0.25      1,442,40n
6. Narahenpitiya Nawala Nugegoda Road        2.0      1,669,600
7. Borella Mirihana Kohuwela Road
up to Welikada                            1.0         664,200
8. Colombo Galle Road, Miles 10.25
to 11.25                                  1.0       3,552,000
9. Colombo Galle Road Miles 11.25
to 12.12                                  0.87     2,748,600
10. Colombo Horana Road, Pamankada
Bridge to Kohuwela                        1.0      1,656,200
11. Kohuwela Dehiwela Road                    1.7       2,340,100
12. Nugegoda Junction to Kohu'iela            0.45      1,172,000
13. High Level Road, Kirillapone
to Nugegoda                               1.0      2,648,800
14. Colombo Galle Road Miles 8.25 to
9.25                                      1.0       3,542,400
15. Colombo Galle Road Miles 9.25 to
10.25                                     1.0       3,459,300
15.47    34,668,20C



_   32  -                                TABLE  7
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREIDT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Comparison Between Estimated Appraisal and Actual Costs
( U.S S Million)
PROJECT ITEM                 APPRAISAL 1/   ACTUAL .1/  X DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
ESTIMATE       COSTS       APPRAISAL AND ACTUAL
COSTS
I. Equipment and Tools           7.02            8.12         +  15.67
II.Spares and Supplies           2.01            1.73         -  13.93
III.Materials                    4.35            2.88         -  33.79
IV.Local Staff                   5.43            5.18         -   4.18
V. Technical Assistance          1.44            2.16          + 50.00
VI.Contract Works                8.50            5.43 2/      -  36.11
28.75          25.50          -  11.30
1/  Contingencies and Taxes and Duty included in items.
2/ Estimated.



- 33-
TABLE 8
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
DISBURSEMENTS
IDA Fiscal Year           Original       Revised      Actual
and Quarter Ending        Estimate       Estimate      (Cumulative)
(Cumulative) (Cumulative)
U.S. $        U.S. S         U.S. $
December  31  1979          350,000        NIL            NIL
March     31  1980          620,000        120,000        118,000
June      30  1980          960,000        520;000        515,578
September 30  1980        2,450,000        530,000        515,578
December  31  1980        3,800,000        540,000        515,578
March     31  1981        4,850,000        600,000        597,000
June      30  1981        5,590,000        610,000        597,000
September 30  1981        6,380,000        700,000        695,485
December  31  1981        7,550,000      1,400,000      1,361,945
March     31  1982        8.700,000      2,800,000      2,745,960
June      30  1982        9,950,000      3,600,000      3,531.834
September 30  1982       11,200,000      4,800,000      4,761,516
December  31  1982       12,450,000      5,200,000      5,011,808
March     31  1983       13.550,000      6,500,000      6,438,752
June      30  1983       14,450,000      6,700,000      6,660,740
September 30  1983       15,200,000      9,000,000      6,685,605
December  31  1983       15,550,000    10,000,000       7,925,051
March     31  1984       15,900,000    11,000,000       7,925,051
June      30  1984       16,500,000    12,000,000       7,925,051
September 30  1984                      13,000,000      7,992,307
December  31  1984                      14,000,000      9,820,000
March     31  1985                      15,000,000    12,286.365
June      30  1985                      15,500,000    12,447,609
September 30  1985                      16,000,000    12,932,623
December  31  1985                      16,500,000    14,347,347
March     31  1986                      16,500,000    14,954,378



SRI LANKA
ROAD MUNTRNANCE PROJECT (CRZDIT 900CI)
PROJBCT COIMPLETION REPORT
VEHICLE OPERA!ING COSTS AT 50   m/1HOUR
(Rs./1000 km)
Vehle                                                              Iaiatsmac         Capital    Cr.,                    Kasuea e   O,wrsad
T7,eU3/    \.tul                oil      tire  D3praiathoa   #art$   Labow   Cost           cost    Registratios  ftes          Cost       Total
tasscgr Cars, TaLs         U2.3   16,5    143.3      275.9       339.6    30.0      165.2      17.6        5.0          1L$        10.        2420.0
3us (AM  1)             1,396.1   43.4    23L5       174.9.      249.1    4.7       136.6     225.0       3.1             -        "5.9       3,329.5
ilolhidim aa              705.1   21.9    265.2      259.1       517.1    75.0      210.6     164.0        5.3          30.0       563.3      2, 16.6
VAam TtUc                 704.5   21.9    235.7      147.0       336.9    50..       *.0       mo0         5.3          13.3       432.0      2,160.0
tam    Suck             1,112.9  34.6    447.6       10.6        420.9    40.0      1".9      IN.9         5.9          30.0       667.2      3,336.0
/ Passo e        Cars-Eitsubiahi (1,400 ce); Sue-Ashok Lylau  (6,075 cc); aicrolmsim buses-Kitsubiasi lose (3,298 cc);
N.ii  truc  (1-4 to, 2 axles)-Iitnbiobi Caste (3,296 cc); le7 Truck (5 too so  above  3 osla  ad
cetoatim trailer)-Uiteubishi 1,o (6, 557 cc).
M N-srl, Lka Central Tainport *ord.
a-



_ 35 -
TABLE 9 (2)
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 9OO j
PROJECT COMPLETION REPRORT
VARIATION OF VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS AND SPEEDS
(speeds in km/h and costs ln Re/km)
--CAR--       --LCV         --BUS---      --HGV---    Av.
R        V     ac      v    oc       v     ac-  - v      oc    oc
2000    53.9   1.51   51.0. 2.05   48.6   4.09   44.5   3.87    2.88
2500    52.3  1.66   49.8  2.24   47.5   4.19   43.7   3.95    3.01
*       3000    50.6   1.79  .48.6  2.40   46,4   4.29   42.9   4.04    3.13
3500    49.0   1.92   47.4  2.55   45.3   4.39   42.1   4.12    3.25
4000    47.3' 2.03   46.2  2.69   44.2   4.49 '41.3   4.21    3.35
*      4500    45.7' -2.14.  45.0  2.;82   43.1   4.59  '40.5  4.29    3.46
5000    44.0   2.24   43.8   2.94   42.0)  4.69  39.7,. 4.37    3.56
5500    42.4  .2.35   42.6   3.06   40.9  ;4.8 O :38.9   4.45    3.66
6000    40.7   2.45   41.4   3.18   39.8   4.90   38.1   4.53    3.77
6500    39.1  -2.55   40.2  3.30   38.7   5.01   37.3   4.61    3.87
7000    37.4  2.65   39.0  3.41   37.6  .5.1.2  36.5   4.70    3.97
7500    35.8   2.75   37.8  3.52   36.5   5.23   35.7   4.78    4.07
8000    34.1   2 85   36.6  3.64   35.4   5.35   34.9   4.86    4:17
w
4.5     46.3   1.93   45.0  2.57   43.3   4.44   40.8   4.14    3.27
5.0     47.2   1.93   45.8  2.56   43.9   4.42   41.2   4.14    3.26
5.5     48.1   1.92   46.6  2.56   44.6  4.41   41.7   4.13    3.25
.6.0    49.0  .192   47.4  2.55   45.3  4.39   42.1   4.12    3.25
6.5    49.9   1.91   48.2  2.55   46.0   4.38   42.6   4.12    3.24
I       T
1    51.9   1.90   50.0  2.54   47.7   4.35   43.7   4.11  - 3.22
1001    50.4   1.91   48.7  2.54   46.5   4.37   42.9   4.11    3.23
2001     48.9   1.92   47.4  2.55   45.3  4.39   42.1  4.12    3.25
3001     47.4   1.92   46.1  2.56   44.1   4.42   41.3   4.14    3.26
4001     45.9   1.93   44.8   2.5?   42.9   4.45   40.5   4.15    3.28
5001     44.4   1.95   43.5  2.58   41.7   4.48   39.7   4.16    3.29
6001     42.9   1.96   42.2  2.59   40.5   4.52   38.9   4.18    3.31
7001     41.4   1.97   40.9  2.61   39.3   4.57   38.1   4.20   3.34
8001     39.9   1.99   39.6  2.62   38.1   4.62   37.3   4.22    3.36
--------------------------_.------------------------..-------------__--
Note R.W and T are surface rouq:'iless. carriaqeway width and traffic.
The values of two of the parameters are held constant while the third
is varied: the 'constant' values adopted for this purpose are R=350O.
W6.0 and 12000. The averaqe cost in the final column is unweiohted.



SRI LMAKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJBGT (CREDIT 900-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - ECONOMIC REEVALUATION - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Bonefits per year
Year           YeSr      Year         Year         Year          Year
(1)           .2)        (3)          (4)          (5)           (6)
Total Benefits                          19,492,593   2b,272,295  21,083,188    9,282,175    9,653,462  10,039,600
Benefits diseounted at
a discount rate of 20%                  16,237,330   14,068,972  1i,0?7,165    4,474,008    3,880,692   3,363,266
Total  *  54,231,433
tenefits discounted at.
a discount rate of 24%                  15,711,030  .13,176,991  11,047,590    3,926,360    3,291,831   2,760,890
1   otal  .  49,914,692
Total DisocUated Benefite at a diecoont rate of 20%    *  54,231,433
..ProJect Eoonoujo cost                                  *  51.426jit.
N.P.V. at a discount rate of 20- o +2,805,322
total Disoounted Benefits at a diseount rate of 24%    .  49,914,692                                               z
ProJect Economic Cost                                   *  51.426.111
N.P.V. at a discount rate of 24%                        *  -1,511,419
Bconomic Rate of Return             *  22.6%
Smum



SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJEGT (CREDIT 900-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT - ECONOMIC REEVALUATION - ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Benefits per year
-Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year    Year
(I)     (2)      (3)     (4)      (5)     (6)      (7)     (8)
!  Total Benefits                                |O                                            co |  $   |  o    |  ¢    | w  |     |  50|
^  Us      v~~D      CD      N-       N       _
___               .    '                            ~~~~~~~~~~~.             .
Total Benefits disoounted                                    ,       CD                                       
at a discount rate of 135%                                  er       0        a               
o   0       0~~c     0%              0%C0
_  _    -    -                                            _-      I                .~~~~~~~~~~t  %
lO 0                      0 cm
Total Benefits discounted                                            0 o  N        i0_
at a disoount rate of 140%                                           0
Votal  a  24,029,648|     
,Total Discounted Benefits at a discount rate of 135%    a  24,8B7,531
ProJect 8eonomic Cost                                      a  24.172.469
N.P,V. at a discount rato of 135%                          a  +  7151,062
Total Discounted Benefits at a disoount rate of 1409$    a  24,029,648N                                                r
Project Scononic Cost                                      *  2421 72.469                                             °
N.P.V. at A discount rate of 140%                          a       -  142,821
gonomic Rate of Roturz                        - 139.17%
eew"see~~C



Benefits per TOW
(1i)  52)  (3)  (4) JO5)  (6)  (7) ()      ) (19)   (11) (12) (13) (14) (15;
5!otal Benefits                            3'   a    tO   N   N                               0t   0 @ " 8 S g    i
.  t-    .    .    ,         c o    .   .
.~~~~~~~~ 4 t P    -    E' E@   t-F. w   N   ft                                     01  1-    0%N
0%    I   wV  N T        0    %  *      t              4D
!T!otal Benefits dlsoounted                 -o       t-   a    t o    %  %a    ;          MN
at a discount rate of 175%                                           " .8.
Total  *  32,561,513         N          N
co  Ni  I*    -    Nw   4     4    tO  t-   0      t   t-  0%c
_-  .... 1%   ,    cm-  0n   N _m             m   0   .ID
,Total Benefitsdiscounted Bt uB% d o                                                 to 1,
at a discount rate of 185%                                       N0"
~ota  Beneftal  a  30,734,236           v- t    '
Total Diecounted Benefits at a diecount rate of 175%    -  32,561,513
Project Eoonomic Cost                                    a  31-5B2. U0
N.P V. at discount rate of 175%                            * +  978,783
Total Diecounted Benefits at a diecount rate of 185%    *  30,734,236
Project Economic Coot                                    *  31.582.732
N.M.T. at discount rate of 185%                          -  -  848,494
Economic Rate of Return            .  180.36%
-m-



Jonsft1s per Y.az'(b. Mu.)
Year          Teo"      YeaLr.    .       '  Year        Tear         ea
(4)           (.5)      (6)        (7)        (8)        (9)         (10)
Total Benefits                          1,o56-33      ,1,098.58  1,142.53  1,188.23   1,235.76   1,285.19   1,336.59
Benefits discounted at a
discount rate of 125%                      41.20          19.01      8.80      4.04        1.85       0.90       0.40
Total  a 76.20  .Ma.                   .
Bonefite discounted at a
discount rata of 130%                      37.71          17.03     7.77       3.45        1.61       0.77       0.27
Tote'  a  68.61 6. MnI
Total Discounted Benefite at diecount rate of 125%   *  76.20
Project Boonomuo Cost                                 .  69.23
N.P.V. at discount rate of 125%                       .  +6.97
Total Discounted Benefite at discount rate of 130%   *  68.61
Project 8conomie Coet                                 * 9
N.P.V. at dieoount rate of 130%                       .  -o.62
ECOnOmiC Rate of Return        a  129.59%
umummea



-. - 
i                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Benefits per yeear
Yesr         Year          Ysry
(')         'W (a         (3)         )($)           (5)
Total Benefite reduced by 25%            14,619,444   15,204,221  15,812,391    6,961,631    7,240,097   7,529,700
Reduced Benefits discounted at 10%      13,289,074   12,558,686  11.875,105    4,754,794    4,496,100   4,246,751
Total  *  51,220,510                                            1
Reduced Benefits dieoounted at 9%        13,406,030   12,801,954  12,207,165  1 449285835    4,706,063   4,487,701
Total  a  52,537,748    1                                       i -
Total Discounted Benefits at a disoount rate of 10%    a  51,220,510
Project Eoonomio Cost                                    a  51d426.111
N.P.V. at discount rate of 10%                           a -  205,601                                                °
Total Discounted Benefits at a discount rate of 9%       *  52,53T,748
Project Boonomic Cost                                    a  51,426ji11
N.P.V. at discount rate of 9%                            a  +1,111,637
Boonomil  Rate of Return             *  9.84%
*                -X-                                     X~~.m.
G:



~~*          * 
flzeft  p1 lO a'p.  -
Tea,     e      T.ai    Tear Yea         , _            Yeearar
(1)     (2)   - (33)    (4)     t5)    (6)      (7)    (8)
-                         --       -      -
n   9-~~~~9
Total Benfite reduoed by 25%                                              ec
l ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~9                         4. .. ......  _   .  ..
iReduced Benefits discounted                        Or                                              CD j .        
!ap a discount rate of 100%                      ao       a        a      a        a              T.
Reduced Benefit* discoowtod                                                V  2 oo       
i  a* a deoouat rate of 110%                'ao                    %      N               C _
Total  .  229656,9278'. ..
Total Discounted Benefits at a discoVnt rate of 100%   *24,?649338
Proteot 800a0Xio Cosd-*t417.6
N.P.V. at a divcount rate of 100S                       *  +  591a869                      a
fotal Discounted Benefits at a diso:n rate at 1otN      a _R2,6569278'                                            r
Proleot Baonomio Cost                                   a  24.i72.46 *
.#P.V, at a discount rate of 110%                      '- -1*516,091   j                                          J
aOOaatO R10  t  of Return         *10281%
-~~~~ -_                                          --.                                          



Bensf5,te per y..t
1 )  (2)  (3) (4)  (5)  (6)(7)  (a)  (9) (lo)1 ) (12) (13) (14) (15
,~~~~~~i                                 _      _%   E.   _ti  '0    0    0    _A   '.    0   _  .,
l                                  u    i    ^    S    5g   F    o       gs   S    wn   o     + as  %o
Total Benefits reduced by 25%                            e          at       wg    o    u    U    e             
U'  '.0   E".  QD  0^   O^  '.    0^  0%   0'  E.   '0  t-   N   4.
* ~ ~     ~     ~    . ..' .W               A      4 _. IA . _   _ _            _         ..
+~~~~                 VI   I    %O  UN  qt  cu +    i- _
I~~-4.    ' C0      000,          0%       -4.0 cou~~
4-  P'.   UN.  '0  co   0      N      . 1    % -    4 '0              % N
t~ ~ ~ ~ ~~I' .% _                                 . _       _  t            ___ __0  N         _.  _    ___
N    0°    U'.  4.  '-   0           In   W%   U'  0'   0% _0 .
Reduced Benefits discounted at 140%                                 l .  r  . o    ;     -   0 o_
'    It'.  At'.      0.        8      . UN               _ _    __    I
Totali                       30,718,603 4 I   N
R.P.V.~ ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ ~~C st "8 "i0tIe f1$.-   6,2
Total Discounted Benefite at a dEecount rate of 1405%    a  301,886,44
P;roject Bconomlc Cost                                      n  31.$82.?30
R.P.V. at a diecount rate of 135%                           a  +  303,7129
B¢onomie Rate of Return                 136.3%
-         . " . -... ..



m - ..l 
Bezlefits psr yOear(j.Mn.)
Year          Yea?      year      Year        Year       T"r        Year1
(4)           (5)       (6)       (7)         (8)        (9)        (10)
25% Reduced Benefite                      792.25        823.94    856.90    891.17      926.82     963.89   1,002.44
ReduOed Benefits discounted at
discount rate of 120%                      33.83         15.98      7.54      3.56        1.67       0.77       0.40
Total *  63.75 lb. ln.-
Reduced Benefits discounted at
discount rate of 110%                      40.72         20.19     10.03      4.§9        2.41       1.25       0.60
Total *  80.19 bP MU.
Total Discounted Benefits at discount rate of 120%         .63.75
Project IConouic Cost                                   .  69.23
I.P.V. at discount rate of 120%                         *  -5.48
Total Discounted Benefits at discount rate of 110%      -  80.19
Project Booncomi  Cost                                     Ow.
L.?P.V- at diecount rate of 110%                        * +10.96
Economic Rate of Return    *  ii6.67%
C



to   ~~~~~40
-  -w + - F                       C
108.97        - - -       19.49       55.69       33.79    _t
113.32        - --        20.27       57.91       35.14    _
117.86        - --        21.08       6o.23       36.55     
1,152.83         56.33       9.28       62.64       24.58 0 
1,198.94      1,498.58       9.65       65.15       25.56 1w 
1,246.90      142.53        10-04       67.75       26.58  
1,26o.13      tll;18.23     - --        70.46        1.44           5
1,310.54      10'235.76     - --        73.28        1.50  
1,361.40       U285.19      ---         76.21 -4-4-
t1,415.85     t 0 36.59     -  - -      79.26       - - - 
82-43        ----82.43--                                  _
85.73        -_ -__                  85.7-3--             M
89.16        -  ---89.16                         -_ - 
92.72        -       -         ---   92.72        4-- 
96-43                                96.43 
I)i 3levs_ t5 _



Annual 3eneflte (b.Eu,)
_(j   (2)  (3)  (4)  (5)  (6)  (7)  (8)  (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15)
120% Discount Factors
p   Is     *      0  S    0 
i p       8    0    0    8    0   0    0   0    0    0   0    0    0
120% Total Benefits                                                              m +    ;  o
I!otal *  l76.$6       4    N          4    N!   i'                  °,                     I u,     
.  ..               :-..                     *    *
o-  0t  %o   0    0    N           D              No o    t
121% $tal BenefitN                                                    Is    m   i n    8
*     m      4-     N    ,                                                I_
Tbtal Discounted Benefits at a discount rate of 120%        *  176.56
Projeot Boonomic Cost                            .             176.41 
N.P.V. at a discount rate of 120%                           a  + 0.15                                                  w
I!otal Discounted Benefits at a discount rate of 121%       *  174.18
Project Ico o  Cost                                         a  176.41
X.P.V. at a disootmt rate of 121% .                            - 2.23
3oonomlo Rate of  ett    *  120.06%



Annual Benefits (M.En.)
('), (2)  (3)  (4)  (5)  (6)  (7)  (8)  (9) (10) (11) (12) (13) (14) (15)
25% Reduoed Benefits                         4I               N °-   0    0    -                    c   0 0   O
0    0    O~~  O~C4O0
.~~%   -t t                        sX gg o   
106% Discount Pactors e                                                  o         o
0-  0    0    0                                d   d~0    * 
106% Total Benefits                           e   0                CY N  - 4        *r   ^   _      a   _    _
Total      165.57           >                                                                      I O
100% Disoount ?actors                                                _ o 8    o-   o8
o  o   c o  o  o   o                       o  o   o  o 
100% Total Benrtits                          0        N  9   o    u-   IA O        0    o   o       c    c    o
o    _    _-          0     4    -   M    N   _        o o
Total      184.30           *    N          UN   N _                                               I N
Total Discounted Benefite at a discount rate of 106%   *  165.57
Project Bconomic Cost                                       a  176.41
N.P.V. at a discount rate of 106%                           a  -10.84
Total Discounted Bonefite at a disoount rate of 100%   .  184.30
Project Hoonomio cost                                       a  176.41
N.P.V. at a discount rate of 100%                           *  + 7.89
Eoonomic Rate of Return    *  102.06%
---u-rn-.... w



- 47. -
TA8LW 13
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDlT 900CB)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Road Maintenance Expenditure
YEAR          ROUTINE          PERIODIC        TOTAL
MAINTENANCE     MAINTENANCE
(Re  M)          (Re. H)         (Re. X)
1975             49.7             51.7          101.4
1976             13.5             42.6           56.0
1977             53.2             42.6           95.8
1978             57.7             51.4          109.1
1979             81.9             71.4          153.3
1980            100.8             87.3          188.1
1981            109.7             74.3          184.0
1982            125.4             63.7          189.1
1983            140.4             64.6          205.0
1984            155.3             58.5          213.8
1985            187.7             97.4          285.1
1986            160.5 1/         230.8 1/       391.3 1/
1/ Estimated



TABLE  14
48
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900CE
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PROPOSED FIVE YEAR EXPENDITURES
------------- Rs. Million -----------------
1985    1986    1987    1988    1989   TOTAL
Routine Maintenance           220      240     260      280     300   1,300
Repair of Flood Damage          15      15      10       10      10       60
Periodic Maintenance          241      404     526      569     812   2,552
Pavements                    (206)   (359)   (451)   (489)   (717) (2,222)
Bridges and Culverts          (35)    (45)    (75)    (80)    (95)  (330)
Betterment                     80      120     135      100      50      485
Adoption of Rural Roads          6      12       18      24      30       90
Purchase of Equipment         109       66     119      171      13      478
TOTAL :            671     857   1,068   1,154   1,215   4,965
Source : GOSL Technical Committee report on Cabinet Memorandum



* CHAIRMAN         SCEAI
j RDA           SCEARA
GENERAL MANAGER |MANAGEMENT
RDA         j SERVICES
1                   I~~~~~                                                             ~~ I  I  I____I
r-WOiRKS                   FM-AINTENANCE-j        rCONSTRUCTION               7ENGINEERING!    ,     AIiEi        PERSONNEL   :     RESEARCH
r MANAGEMENT    6                      ... N: _ SERVICES     LADMINISTRATION1
.ODTAGEETS ;,                                                  !                DEVELOPMEN
--PROJECTS                PROVI NCIAL        W__ CONTRACTS 6                     HIGHWAY    _DEVELOPMENT  - ADMIN            L-INVESTIGATIO
SPECIAL PROJECTS             DESIGN                                      T
MECHANICAL             REGI NAL                                                BRIDGE                                      .
L      CONSTRUCTION         r       DESIGN          FINANCIAL     _ TRAINING  LRESEARCH
MANAGEMENT!t
-  PROCESSES               DISTRICT                  MA E                         TRAFFIC &       REGIONAL
PLANNING        LIAISON
L   WORKS                   SUB CONTRACTS                                           LAND ACO:
L    ADMINISTRATION                                                                     6
PUBLIC
SERVICES
R O A D D E V E L O P M E N T A U T H O R I T Y
ORGANISATION STRUCTURE



-50-
APPENDIX
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT (CREDIT 900-CE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
OBSERVATIONS BY TEE REGION
I. Project Experience
1.1      Two fundamental changes were made during implementation of the
project. Firstly, the project was intended to rehabilitate some 260 km of
roads and thirty bridges by contract. In the event there were no bids,
despite some twelve firms having-prequalified, probably because there was
no tradition of road contractors, foreign or local in Sri lanka, nor indeed
any serious rehabilitation or reconstruction investment since independence.
This deterred foreign firms from making the investment involved in setting
up in a new country, lacking the confidence that road investment would
continue beyond the duration of the project.l/
1.2      The work on this project had therefore to be done by force account
using the DOH's own force. The crucial point is that the Credit Agreement,
designed for work by contract, was not modified to reflect this decision
even though this was urged by IDA staff on several occasions.  Whereas the
Credit Agreement would have reimbursed 10OZ of foreign and 752 of total
costs for works executed by contract, it allowed 10OZ of foreign and only
502 of local expenditure on "equipment, tools, supplies and construction
materials." This had two consequences. No ad hoc reliable accounting
procedures were developed, and DOH officials had to try to break down the
costs of force account operations (themselves not well documented) into
identifiable reimbursable components. This led to confused accounts and
the Auditor-General declined on technical grounds to approve the covenanted
audit reports. However, the Auditor General did state that the funds had
been used as intended in the Credit Agreement. Throughout the life of the
project, it appeared not to be disbursing very well.
1.3      In fact the project did complete its works program, except for
four small bridge repairs, but the civil works cost GOSL much more of its
own funds than intended. The counterbalance of this cost was the greatly
expanded equipment purchase program. Eventually, US$1.55 million of the
US$16.5 million credit was cancelled.
1/ It is interesting to note that by the time the Second Roads Project
(Loan 2517-CE) went to the Board in April 1985, the situation had
changed markedly. Private enterprise was popular, credit was available
for equipment, and the Government had announced a long-term road
improvement program. This produced 57 prequalified firms of whom 13
submitted bids.



-51-
1.4      The second major event was the dissolution of DOH following
appraisal of the Second Roads Project without IDA having been part of the
dialogue leading up to this decision. In its place arose the Road
Development Authority (RDA) which was assisted in its early years by a
Singaporean management consulting firm.
1.5      In the first project, a Danish consulting firm was contracted to
assist DOH with project execution and to strengthen its maintenance
practices, including planning. The firm produced some good people, who did
their best to introduce better practices in field and office alike, but the
PCR is generous (para 5.07) in describing the benefits to road maintenance
practice. The reluctance of senior management to accept advice or to
translate any of the recommendations of the excellent series of reports
produced by the consultants into executive decisions or binding
departmental instructions was so great that little significant change was
achieved. As an exception to this state of affairs, the mechanical
engineer was particularly active and his advice was generally followed.
However, senior DOH management was reluctant to make executive decisions
and the introduction of new equipment was not properly managed; some new
machines just sat and rusted.
1.6      It was this institutional attitude, coupled with the fact that the
Secretary of Highways (also Secretary to the Prime Minister) was
particularly overburdened, that prompted IDA to call for stronger
laadership for DOH. The result was the appointment of an exceptionally
able Secretary, who although active in the preparation of Loan 2517-CE, did
not seek IDA assistance in the major institutional change noted in para
1.4.
1.7      The project was the first in the roads sector and as such
confronted an unknown contracting climate and a changing institutional
environment. The closing date was extended by 18 months mostly because of
slow disbursement for the reasons explained in para 1.2 above. However,
during those two years, the opportunity was taken to establish links with
local consultants and contractors and to let some small works under
contract with local supervision. This created contact and dialogue between
what had now become RDA and local firms. The Danish consultant reports and
IDA visits during supervision added greatly to IDA knowledge of the
institution and the sector, and enabled IDA to prepare a follow-on project.
1.8      In spite of the external conditions and the various changes from
the appraised project, it served as a launching pad for the highway
planning division, the island-wide Multimodal Transport Study, the entry
into the roads sector of local contractors and consultants--all given new
focus in the follow-on Second Roads Project.
1.9      All major covenants of the project were complied with as
summarized below.



-52-
SUMARY OF STATUS OF COMPLIANCE WITH COVENANTS
Country:  SRI LANKA                                                                          Credit No. 900-CE
STATUS ORIGINAL REVISED
AGIIT    SECTION    I/      DATE     DATE          DESCRIPTION OF COVENANT                     COMMENTS
3.04(c)    OKI   12/31/54   9/86   Borrower to prepare PCR
3.05      OK       --        --    Acquire land as needed
3.07      OK    12131179           Prepare a plan for strenthening
the Departsent of Highways;
carryout said plan.
3.08      OK    12131/80           DOH to dispose of unserviceable
equipeent and vehicles
3.09      OKI  06/30/60   9/83   Preparation of a 5-year Road           Delayed due to lack of complete
Maintenance Program                 road inventory and shortage of staff.
3.10      OK    12/31/82           Prepare 5-year road investtent
program
3.11      OKI   12/31/79   3/83   Prepare and adopt contract terms
and specifications for civil works
on construction and rehabilitation
4.01(b)    OKI  Six                 Borrower to submit audited           Audited accounts received.
months            accounts annually                    Although Auditor General declined
after                                                  on technical grounds to give
the end                                                unqualified approval, he stated
of each                                                that funds were used for the
fiscal                                                 purposes intended and that
year                                                   expenditures were incurred in
accordance with the Credit Agreement.
11  OK   - Covenant complied Nith.
OK1 - Covenant coaplied with now but was revised in past.



-53-
II. Economic Re-Evaluation (May 1988)
Introduction
2.1      The project which has been implemented has four elementst a road
rehabilitation program consisting of seven separate road sections; an
asphalt overlay program; improved periodic maintenance, and a bridge
rehabilitation program. In the economic re-evaluation, each element of the
project has been analyzed separately to show the estimated rates of return.
The overall project's estimated rate of return is 392, as compared with the
appraisal estimate of 362. However, this comparison is misleading since
the actual work undertaken under the project is substantially different
from that included in the SAR. Table 1 shows the comparison of the project
as planned and as actually carried out: different road links improved,
types of periodic maintenance undertaken and the number of bridges
rehabilitated. Table 2 presents the same comparative data by categories of
work and categories of expenditure.
Basic Data
2.2      The basic data used were derived from the SAR, the PCR prepared by
the RDA, discussions with RDA stfs, and the Data Bank established as part
of the Sri Lanka Transport Sector Study. The traffic data used in the
economic re-evaluation are shown in Table 3. The vehicle classification
counts apply to the road links for which the counts were available nearest
to the project sections, but in most cases the counts were not on the
project sections themselves. For this reason, the 1982 information
supplied by RDA was used as the primary source for total traffic volumes,
the vehicle mixes and traffic growth rates were based on the classification
counts. An average growth rate of 52 per year was used in cases where
there were no classification coui.t data. Neither the SAR nor the PCR
(prepared by RDA) showed the traffic volumes used in their analysis.
2.3      Table 4 shows the type of work done on each project component, the
estimated financial and economic costs, the estimated lives of the project
after completion, and the estimated results in terms of road roughness. It
al3o shows the estimated expenditures by year in financial and economic
costs. The costs are assumed to be in constant 1983 rupees, as 1983 is
roughly the mid-point in both the time period and the total expenditures.
2.4      The basic (1985) vehicle operating costs (VOC) used in the
analysis, and the relationshlps between VOC and road roughness are shown in
Table 5. The costs are economic costs, net of taxcs and duties. In their
application to the economic re-evaluation, they ha%e been deflated to 1983
cost levels and used as 1983 constant costs.
Analysis
2.5      The rehibilitation of individual road links (Sub-projects 1
through 7) were, for the most part, carried out in segments, with some
segments being opened while others were still under construction. For this
reason, the opening year in each case was assumed to be the year during
which the last expenditure was made, rather than the more commonly-used
following year. All costs and benefits were discounted to their present
values as of the beginning of 1980 at a rate of 102 per year, and the
r    n            a        t-cost        ,  t        ' va'



-54-
internal rates of return. The benefit-cost ratios and net present values
are also shown at a discount rate of 122.
2.6      St'b-projects 8 and 9 follow the same format and procedure.
However, there is a variation in the opening year for Sub-project 9
(Improved Periodic Maintenance). The expenditures for this project are
spread from 1981 to 1986 (Table 4-B). but there are also benefits in the
earlier years of this continuing activity. Therefore, the opening year in
this case was considered to be 1984. two years before the last expenditure.
2.7      Sub-project 10 (Bridge Rehabilitation) is also in the same format
as the others, but the procedure in this case was somewhat different in
that no vehicle operating costs are shown for the 'with project' case.
Instead, it is based on the costs of vehicle diversions due to bridge
closures in the absence of the project.
Conclusion
2.8      The results of the economic re-evaluation are shown in Table 6.
Coincidentally, there is a similarity in the rates or return between the
SAR and the present economic re-evaluation. The SAR did not show rates of
return for the individual road links included in the road rehabilitation
component of the project, but the total return is almost identical (292 in
SAR vs 28.31 in the PCR). There is some variation in other project
components, but again, the overall rate of return or the project is quite
similar (362 in SAR and 392 in PCR - see para 1.1).
2.9      The lowest rate of return was on Sub-project 6 (only 1.2Z).  This
was one of the two projects (6 and 7) carried out by private contractors.
The capital costs per mile on these two projects are similar, averaging Rs
2.76 million in costs. By comparison, the average cost of the road
rehabilitation projects carried out on force account was about Rs 241,000
per mile--a difference factor of more than 10 times. Sub-project 7 still
has a reasonable rate of return, primarily because of relatively high
traffic volumes of about 2,200 vehicles per day in 1982, compared with 574
for Sub-project 6. The low economic rate of return on Sub-prcject 6 is
perhaps due to the problems encountered with the private contractors which
resulted in high costs. It is possible that physical construction
conditions, different road design standurds and other factors also played a
part.
Attachments:
Table 1:  Comparison of SAR/PCR
2: Comparison of SAR/PCR by Category of Work/Expenditure
3: Traffic Volumes
4: Construction Cost, Roughness Indicies, & Estimated Expenditures
5: Vehicle Operating Costs
6: Vehicle Operating Cost Savings - Summary of Total Project
6.1   Sub-Project No. 1
6.2        a           2
6.3        n           3
6.4        8           4
6.5        ^           5
6.6        '           6
6.7                    7
6.8                    8
6.9                    9
6.10                  10



-55-
SRI LANKA                                                    Table 
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900'CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Comparison of Staff Appraisal Report and Project Completion Report
*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
;paasal bOt                                                                        PCe
--  -----------------                                       f st                     -   --                                                     Est.
Dist.              Cost                                                             Dist.               Cn't
tlI                                   (11.1  Surfate   (s.6) eltk                                                          (hI.I  surface   Its *1
...... -                                     - -- - -- -- -- -- ---   - - - - -;           ....                                   ....  ..... -...--- -.. ---  ---
1. £3. su. 4£ to pututula                            10     HSi       (2.8           U £ 4, N 1ru1m.-Il 4a-Val . 14. R S.  16-44       Si     Sand       7.2
£4. flood prOtectis at Nmatiaa                        5     Sel       0.
2.fi) All. ui.ina to al. 4  (1: MST                  12     DSI        7.3
1(2  Patch/Seat)     20      Stal                    A7.                             ada..amllaatue e . 12-79   t   54     I 0
II)ll, 6  . U *7 to NAueitiya                       3     Hsi       S5.4                                                  10 h-1ll             Sell      1.0
3. £7,  visamea-fluittom-Nf1iI                        9     UIS?       5 6          A*4  AVIss&la-iataate.-ululla  - lte la               49     5tSI     11.0
*1  14-18 A 106-111                                                                  38.5-40  lOS; 86-106; 10-114
4. Ai, Pola lla to lurail  1I: OSII)                  a     0it        6.0          As.  eroAsolvaaoe Rd.                                  6     sis5       2.J
(2: Patchiseal)      26      Sel
£2. Col@-fialle Rd. II. 13-17                         5     51S5      2.2
S. A1. tradilw a6audoll Rd.                           9      US?      10.2
i  *2. Colomo lSle, Id.  raisa                        I       -        O5
6. At, Clol-(* dr . (hsiP on1l                        5                5.0 
Uodur Contract                                      LWs                 26
7  teledemill Rd..  Ile stigs tt PaSS.              IC               10n.           --------------
It tot6 Lyass        reaiaqu.t)                                                  Auraapua-Padmiaa U. 4                                       D15t     22.0
si. 21-4S; 9-14
Other rda. got spoc. (alt. atet)                                      19 S
--- ---              ---------        and-liatugastota Rd.                                       M 0ST      3.4
I1              112.0           (Iritcoulie St. to latutgstots)
: ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~119                                                                                    Sb. 4;
j qg   Perlodic uonteauce                           150               77.0           sasalt Overlays. Colobo Are.
j ridp rehalibtation, 30 bridoges                                    7?.0            Various road sections, total (5.5  i ts              13   Prsozm     34.1
korhshops I Spares                                                    17.0           (srowed Periodic Watatenance                              SlSi a
----------------------------                                Sand
Technical assistafce                                                  25.0           wrtove t real various road sections                 141     Sell     26.1
--------------:.....
;c0toeumcous. taiwes A duties                                          151                                                               273              117.8
,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                     - - -          . ..... ...-:
262             455.0           Orfodg  rehabilitation. 40 bfrads                                     76.0
, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    . . . .         .... ...
?echsocal assista ne                                                  34.1
moto: t.W   papsO of thou tables is tO eovwidt inlorution for a
co ism  of theY   C savolgi  betem  the pfoject as plned                    Costs sot odgetalied sith specific projects                                 ;
ad a  actbilly carried ot. For this ream. only rod scrface                     at itg fios  1t     0 tkt P                                        221 1
ciarasteristics are incldi.   meer. the costs also cover
otwr isrwlets, sucb as    otric A"  sbsurface lorownts                                                                                            455.0
:-----.:



-56-
SRI LANKA                                                     Table 2
MO AfINTENANCE-PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECNOIC RE:EVAhUATTON
Coau,arison of SAR & PCR bY Category of Work
:  MY St     It K6407 OFl n  CfON                                                               so    w It  ClE60tt Of EhKlfIU:
---------------------------                                               ...............~~~*  ~   5   I .......... ........
:                                                                                                                                        4.graaisal  scat  l 
; .......... .........-----------------   -                ----------------------                                                 Aw as   l:
Cat/                                  CoS tl                        ... C@SIJ                 R'w't                 PCI.
:  Cost  1ll. ..........~~~~ct       N.                          Cost  " 11.                           :---------                                  ----- ----
i.       IRS  s    k  ceas a.                        SOt C5 UoN       Eqalp. a tools                             79.g             128.3
- ---    *---------  ------ ------ -- - .... ....           ..          S es a suiles                              10.1              27.3
: ahilitatia             StI                                   1II     56.4       414     :       aterials                                31.6               45.5
:  Napair 6 reseal          46       112      1155                                                 L Lotal staff                             60.9               81.8
:       rrch. assist.                             18.2                4. t
: lt o"erl                                                      15     34.7      2313    :    Cootruct ertks                             102.8               95.8  1
:  Sted/duua                 IS                                                           :t   ~ IEUUeltrw   *4c   L4eutL                                              :
lwroed alst.            150        77  S 13                    141     26.7       199            miii specific catawies                                      52.2
, ~~~~~~~~~....    .. ....  .... ...                      ---         --.-    -----
262     1i9        721                21S    117.8       429 :                                                   30.4               455.0
: rus                  {(30)       73                         140)      76.0            :       c.tigines   Price                         65.1
I 1l *sh      smog5                  1                                                    :                           tities                26.6
Tech. assistase                    25                                  34.1                     tal a d6ty                                59.2
costs not  ssoiate dIt                                                                                                                  ------              ----.
specific mrw  catterits                                              227.1                                                              454.3              45S.0
:                                    ,fl-                                 . t..  . .
:                           30          ~           ~          ~~~~~      ~     ~~~~~~~~4 455.0::
Coatities: Prite                   .5
:   ~~~~~~~~otitv                27.:
455                                 415.0
: ft  16ft S                                             
:                                                                                                                                                                              :t
*                      ~~~~~~~~(055s 29e)
-  ft                                                                        ft~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - - -- - - - - - -
---------------------------------------- ------   ---------   ----------------                                                          ------



Classilgcale   Ctlis: 3Aities to  kV 212                                        oWU  4
.. .. ...........................................   ...........   .......   ........   ..   . . ......... ... ... ... ...   ...O
Sail.                                                                                                               IKez^                          f
bM  setl                                (no 1     VIm         lKalis            t  s       s       miss   toll    kAvv    leGal   OIhe          leoUl         ll)      of2
..........-                             .............                            ....   ...............                                   .     ...          ..... 
ubkPfo*acI I
Al, m,e. -tuF volacb. u.. i  1U 46                   I1       Si ba  50    lint            36J      216         B      36b        I     1ow       243        52        U J1       525    1
all. 121fl6 ptsI.. 3. 65. Ul       wilsia             3                                                                                                                   di     115
*M6. toesk   Islel.  Iuer  1 .43    23.41            0.01     a         an1In a0                           ad A"u.        W6/
.UbP ojC6  2
6./. *wssinla-IeIkeU'Ilava U.,,. *d 739              1           b. I        ssuull    1022        524         0      555        *     2101       "a      Jos         11 9       *
a1. 16-12                                                                                                                        I0 111-l     1
Va. tvpes bf 1  eaI. OIe)    41.1    24.91           0.11   26.41       00a   Ion                          adi. *w.    U
S.d..P;ojt I
*2. Celle6a12e I. em. IJ 1                            5       6J-ias v  bhhmm3  V    013            6111    32S2    2929          a    25114     4911    31"5          121    3six
it ki.  9    iawla 14   1451         J O1    41        462          a    2651l     5"/   £2156
U2. t nl. Salle U. baelm .                                    a s km.  9  hIaile 1        319      2511     MIS       23          0    23211     53    21                                                           X
bmiw14. to  cI.                                               km b t t   "16 l       213        112              1al       1316    lw1       544    , 4
t be. It W. toi oe, lnuu             Al/3               0        19/I 2n11 to      13      2144
am. 19w                 222       1193        0     1102      694    JAM43      423    2ti                                  lb
i  wia. 21902/3         2442      3JJ3   S3)1        W          6    24/        6214    A"/                                  M
Veb  tps lt   lt lea. - si")    5.42    12 R        M5.6t 14.41         6 on    IN a
Av   Val we1X4t. IM    3           s t     -1.m      otU      21 ?. to           1.3        5 itsn                                                            il
45. ft#Aai"-6mota fw.                                        84   km   IJ 6eDi oya        911       M        M        454       34     23        ISO        m                                                             14
S,~~~~i^-Wel^".              e~~~~~~~~           ke 4     IJ s Ceral      $zl       s5       Sl       XS        a      232^       so      MI                     2s                                 f
4ke  13 61S Ov&              112      la       443        3        t2 26  2         SJ. 5,S    2n1i
ob km1. 2116a               52 )     2.0      4101       *     2.1                 $ 2   S"  21 S5                            nU
14b    11 ii Ore            023      452      /is      46         19 21 1)         *62     311n
.................              ..               
3o,,at, 264              6..       l.I      %        515       i4     213        VI      294
Yoh  typesn by I ie   I OtltoI     39      16.23    22.11    li.i       1a  I21.01
U. LumssaiIa Sign. -foldllIa   ritlla                 9
mi. 31.54;  1196; 14 1b; I6/ 116                        so M   be  *issmIIl    1652            142           *     I1       6      51W4      MIS     49
d lis b6 A       i7ssAsuIa    146     M          6                 6      11U0      in       M5         M 65       14%
4  is 5b  S   issaulla   1N61         4s       12t      n           9     299       214     4          06-146       mi
4  kIgb   W   A5ssatia       W "WI    469      4        35          4     2au       a1      ja        IV  1126      ii
14  I. 56  6,assell    12256          W        SU       65          I     mi       tin      3
4  Ia. W   £ssuhlla   22ls                     mi Mo                21    m2i      1112    3%J    3MA. A".          VA5
M6 3*05  61.6ev.          24/       642        6      524        6      264       522     325                                                            on  a
km Ial  ta1t2.              392       215               114       29      I25/      4J      ills
.....  ....    ....    .. ..   ....      .....    . ...     .....                                                      *
Awet. 1910               25/1                 O S               o                615 .U62                                                               a
etap. 1ow                gt         4       1        1121U      Is     SSI)   1245       46                                                             it
IA   Ims &II  ltl I lbet)    39.32    21.43    2.1           22a1      6.41   210 a
v n u         fil. 21134 IJ.33             -1 n       1*      S.n      11        43 n       4 ns
sltal. fuee Accent km.  (all              l03



; onI lweal
36601*C                                                                                                                                                                29I         01
......... -1.. 45  96                                                                         e a 
Sub-Pao.I                                                                                                                                                          61     I s     S
US.r  __t roo11&                                                                  . lb  classitilstlee toot 4it  *&^ililetW Ow lb dai a                             11 12 *
t14                                                                              "li It; got 6%u   homtl 1.t I} Is W                                                        u
OW  A"        5.'
SUb-PFQJoLI I
AIt, £am*-itae1st1a Id                                3        4   kg. I  atesUslota       515      35        491      I          I     Ia?       $3w      227V                  2230
lltiflwie Sl. teoI galoste l                                  64   M. I  dlyalota          *        43I      1S      45i         0     ?t        sit 51    St                                       0
et  b   I ita"fitota        its       40       4S9       Sol        2     2211      se?     211i                                      2
84    a. I  aleastOa        Lb        4Of      55       SJS         5     21"       41/    .'4t1
54   Ia.  I    Sitala       49        424      411 tIl                     751 1v           2/14
Ae s, 1964              ItI    ll 4oS                SS        2      2117      SSJ      U
VA. tIfu  bl I lhun. 011.1 3I.2M     20.11    21.63    21 It            0 It   105.01
lotal ee. tIns bt  1. 1394       J9.32    19 lt    1- 2t   25.01       8.4   10   t
(IKI. 101641 g tedlb
IPt" eh . SptI                    4         - 53    -            --35- -- 
IPrPlI                             45           10 -t- -t-      ..5                                                                  05t 
................
Spa -     Ptetwu flwtom
.. . . ... . . . . .. . .
1tlF  a    SStlUE*Its  low  wtttst 1lt (VW                                                           tf DA  SSStt A  lss i  0111CwS    asn  n'eftas  VA   Ulbp  U     tU.".    lil
Wm  ipfsvw PR  owt414I                                                                    y1    M    B  .ow aCll
IOUI FINKS NW 01.1.
S*-thole. * 10
lkodot  ,llit ll". 0   tltlEs                                                               111&  lstte a   114lfeltlic isF SW  as 'ta  VA    i.s            1       wa   &        fte
bt ea  l.   titl .II bhat a I                                                                                                      "-
j oi: wtsrglts, *sswsins  (Nis                                                                                                                                                                                    6  a,
It   l         iAI                                  IS                                (Ust  UPll llapt      £ m IS n  l.ei ekr 1n tst tk  ast tije` .til stdtio                                                           -.
Us        "IP,o.s   ttf   itin  to I                                                                                                                                                          -Swil't localiss at the lo    l ltttls.  Ike
OM  IM   c    s felnt spelically to tPo lettolts, Ws  do sat sitt vdictl  ttS 
Ift I       u t      rs _ N     asust *S                                                         larel Vslk "    tihit s  Ii         i*lt  oalw ee   t ti           m la4n 
estol1w  ai Jeej ecis *I  IIolet hs    Ik llE  e_tlZ  sllm
1a-,j.  _.



-59-
SRI LANKA                                                     Table 4
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT                                                      Page 1 of 3
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Construction Cost, Roughness Indicies, & Estimated Exoenditures
4.  Construction Cost 6 Road I8qIinwss If4ices                RDA FCI                                                    Post-
...................------- ---      Est.      Est.    Or g. Pro).
Est.    AU        lotal    oetal   _o- Iti*-
type     fin.   Assoc-      Fan.    Ecu.   nass. ness.  Est.
Dist.      ot       Cost    litN       Cost     Cost      PC6    PU      tlfe
(IN  I    lort   lisa)       Cost   (Is.)   (As.e  (a/bke) ( k/ i) ftrs)
---- ---                                  ....   . . ....  .. ...
4. 0849 ffAulLlThrlau                                              111               (12)                (3)       (41     (4)   (5)
1.  46. AC dan.traaa-Valach  Rd., *. 16-46                 31       1#5       7.2      9.7      16.9     IS.2       400   38011   4
U. Flood protectio  at Nanaaatay                        3         5      0.2       0.3      0.5       0.4
2. Ul.                               Id.ssahlla-atton-r Ela,  td. oi. 73-79  7  IS  1.6  2.2   S .8      2.9      5400   .1890    4
so. 106-111             6                1.0       1.3      2.3       i.8
3.  42. ColoMo-6uIe Rd. ma. 13-17 (7)                        5        2       2.2      3.0       5.2      4.0      3500   2400    6
J2. Coloao t lle ad. Oramnage                            I        S      O.S       0.7       1.2      0.9
4.    . Peradmnia-6aola Rd.                                 '         2       2.3      3.1      5.4       4.2      S00   3200    6
..   A, vssaul4-Rataa.Pelaualla -forgaIla                  49       2#S      11.0     14 8     25.8      20.2      5400   J2t0    d
a. 38.5-40; 70-85; 86-1L6; 107-116
Subtotal                                         l0d               26.0     35D0      61.0    4*  d
b*46. Ueder Contrat
6.  42. Anuradhapura-Padmiya Rd.                            8       3j5     22.0      29.7      S.t    i40.4       s400   5000      10
01. 21-45; 9-14
7.  1110(), 1141-116tugastota Rd.                           3       3tS      8.4      11.3      19.7     55.4      5400   3000      10
. ..              -- --     . ... ..
Subtotal                                          11               30.4     41.0      71.4      55.9
... ..--- --          .... ..     .
S.  Aspalt Oterlays. Colooo Area:
Various road sections, total 15.5 mIles                 13        4      54 7     46.8     81. 5      l.8    8"00   2000        IS
(Loss sections onlt partly done                    ------             ......   .      -----       -----)
Subtotal, laod Rehabilitation                    132               91.1    122.8    211.9    167.S
-- - --- - -           ... ..     -- -     ...
9.  Isrovd Periodic mnaintenance                                 I Ste
1grow  6 raseal various road sections                 141  note a)      26.7      36.0     o2.7      49.1     5000   3900 
Iotdl Road IaroV#nts                            273              117 8    158.8    276.6    216.6
10.  Irida  tehabilitation, 40 Iridgis                                       t6 0    102.4    178.4    139.1                        to
. 
tOtAl COSTS                                                       193.d    261.2    455.0   35h j



-60-
SRI LANKA                                                     Page 2of 3
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONomiC RE-EVALuATION
Construction Cost. Rouahness Idicies. & Estimated Ex2ertditures  (Cont'd)
S. Estinted Etrnditures Sy Tear 18)
...... ........ ...... ........ ..........
IRs. gallion)
I. Finciaelu  Costs
Project
Year             I        2         3         4        5         6        7         8        9        10     total
..   ......    ----     ....      . ...     ---      . . .     .  -.    ----      ----               ....      ....
1980                                                  1.0                                            13.2     14.2
19ill                                                 4 0                                   1.1      17.6     Ji S
1982           8.2                                   10.0                         18.0     17 0      47.S    100.7
1983           8.7       4.3       2.2      2.4      10.8                         35.0     30.0      26.9      " 5
398            0.5       1.8       4.2      3.0                                   20.0     13.0       9.8     52.3
19"                                                            2i.0      8.0      18.5     13.0      57.4    1t2.,
1986                                                          23.7      11.7      10.0      8.0       6.0     59.4
..~~~~~~--                     ---      ----    ..  ... ..  ....     ....   .. . 
11.4      6.1       6.4      5.4      25.8      51.7     19.7      81.5     62.7    178.3    455.0
2.  Econoatc Costs
--------------                            ~ ~~~~~~Project
Tear             1        2         3        4         5         6        7         8        9        10     Total
.... ..  .. .... .... ....  ....  ...  ... ....      ....                         ---      ---
1980                                                  0.8                                            30.3     11.1
3983                                                  3.2                                   1.5    13.8    1I  S
1982            6.4                                   1 a                         I4 1     13.3      31.2      ?8.8
19s3           6.8       3.4       1.7       1.9      85s                         II 7      7 8      23.1     62.9
1984           0.4       L.4       3.2      2.3                                   I5 1     10.2       r.7     40.o
I98s                                                          21.9       63       14 5     30 2      449      'O9 8
1986                                                          IP.6       9 2       '1       6.3      4*       46.5
___.....  --      ---       -  -....    .                ... .    ....      ....     ....
19.6      4.7       4.9      4.2      20.2     40.4      15.4                                  11.1 49 3  39.7  M.3
Notes
p1e4 of Mok:    I   sand sal              2   53           3   NSf    4   asphait overlay
5 :suburface, draina, flood Prot. wo0k
l8(2) In the RDA noI Is. 34.3e (1ec. Assist.) and h. 227.10  were not associated with S., :fu  work itets
(see Ta !e 2                 * .7t CoarisoOs,  Suary).  Thes  coSts have be"n attributed to the financial co-s
of I)ecafic wrk itm  in tho  sam  proportions as the costs 2:ich eOre sho   for the work itessin the PCP
(3) tes  A  dWties estisated at 131 of total costs (Appraisal leport. table 7) Ewe deducted frog the
financial costs.  the econolic costs were then assuoed to be 901 otthe reaaiing financial costs, based on
th  ass tis used in the RDA PCIK (91.) aid the              Appraisal report (90 1S.



-61_
SRI LANKA                                                Table 4
Page 3 of 3
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATtON
Construction Cost, RouRhness Indicies, & Estimated Expenditures (Cont'td)
(4) lhe Arasl uwt doen not shio  the roughnss Indic"s   lied to the Indivadul road 11ks. It
states tht ith reslig * pothole repairs, the ads declines frog a  ere  valwu  of *.000 eMik to
2.48. 1ith adition of a an  bae, t declins from 1,e00  to 2.400. ad mth a prees carpet. it decins
to 2.0  in eitker case. Furthr reliag oun assd to be reand  lter the lessr of at500,600 'due
Pas   or 7  eas. nu W KC sbs rdKctiOs of fro    5.000 to 4.000 for a sad sal (life I VMS). sae
to 3.000 for US1 (life I fears); S,000 to J.2M0 for OSSI lilfe fS ), aid 4.800 to 2.60  for a aswhlt
oelaw (life IS   ar1s.  lb  PO  also does sot sho the specific romess valSs ad sufac  tpets
applie  to eh limb.  th esnttes ned am this  alsis at based ea the dew   morsttom. swimted
by frter data swlied by  M*. ad ere as follos:
-Said sl. so surfaKe uorh: S6  declines t 
-Sad seal 4     s r    sorb:   UN40dian  to  86
-SI. so saiuface owk:           SWO  dcim  to 320
3S5? # ssrfae work.             S0 dclia    to 326n
-1US, ae subrface mok:          5    dclin  to S3o
-05T . susurwface mrp:           40 declis to UO
-AsIlt oewrlay                  4    declinm  to 2000
(SI  the live  ased are as per the P   (see Note 41. but wre increased by I nter ller sa  se) a1 d 2
yers (for 5511 ao can dere sbsrfuae, driage or flood protection morks also dun.
(6) the surfanes aplied is the apreved periodic uintenence wre sand seal (8). 5551 (St and US
(3).  Te wu ted awerge  res after iroemts is 300mm/h  and the life 5 yers, btas   data
supplied n  am.
17M It is assmd that Calle a. started as btter teditim  tha  the averae of the other Project rods.
IS) Te total costs be y    re ated ao the disbursemets data in tht FM  (table 8) plus the addition of
is. 42.6 sillio  to bris the total to the full amt of s. *SS e.  the eschange rate iwlied an the Ka
is fs. 27.6:    i. Me distoihtis of the  Iml costs to the andividotliLemntls based On the
limited inforatis  is the      ad frthr data Provided be iNA. but still has a large elms"t of arbitrary
jud_mt. Nwr  this des not have a sigaificat effect on the oer-ll rslts of the alnlysis.
Th costs wm  lured froe 19  to 1906 and are considred to represent end-of-196  cost lvelS  n teW
avera. TM  195 vhicle oeratim  costs have  e  deflated to end-9"3 values.  rhe analysis as thus
am constat 16 costs.



-62-
SRI LANKA                      Table 5
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATIO
Vehicle Operating Costa
i,~~~a   a a   ~~~  
_  * l ,l X . t e t $ Zi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ s _    l  !    t #
t.  I '   St S 
-~~~~~~~MR =3g s,3S a                              f 
-   ,   a  .. uX_  ij  I                                in4.aU......... xia'-:a's 
I.                    ao I   yt    -                                       . 
.:~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - :--   -, -a_.__-____. _a  . :
'-~~~~4 '-~ '- 41- -- '             '     '       '' -' - -' --'-l  t  -J  ac -1    
M' A-
:!a~~~UE~~:!    >8   3          Z.       .. iI*--Z_-
~~~~~~~~3                                                  U    1j  CSi§'i|           -  :gts;   
a:        -             2u£f8    titj3 E
*       ____o-_ -92  2  *1 It e 
~~ ;~       '  '' -Xs °  j :,          .
~~s ~~*            .1 .,__~.~ ........... 
.    _         .  ,.                3      
3C    , , a*~*___,,        ,                a,    _,~ __    ___
S        _       ,      _       3*e   - 9  X(*t!l-
! _  :    : a:                 } . _   --~-. 
''                 '  '-    'I,                    
, ~ ~ ~  ~    . _* .       ,  -_
§  j §;-5_i 3^| 0 j                  ^:-;*ummamuUUUuu- 
_~~~~~ I  i ,                     R!   1



-63-
SRI LANKA                                             Table 6
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Vehicle Operating Cost Savings - Summary of Total Project
(ls. eallios
1w.
Asphalt   Per.   Pidge             Fotal
load Rehabilitation Projects                            Ovesl,  Naist.  ReA.              Projet
Year     1       2        3       4        S       6        7     total              9       9       10     Pfof
1909   19.10)  (3.191   13.15)   2.73) US.A41  121.05)  16.29) (63.93)           (40.52) 431.72) 195.67t  Cost: 1231.84)
19I    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.0e    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                 0.00    0.00    0.00   -----    0.00
1982    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                0.00    0.00   51.45             )I 45
1%3    5.33    0.00    0.00    0.00   17.11    0.00    0.00   22.44                 0.00    0.00   54.03            76.47
19A    5.60    1.61    4.6?    4.37   17.97    0.00    0.00   34.41                 0.00   43.09   56.73            1J4 29
396     S.W     1.76    5.11    4.59   18.96    0.00    0.00   36.20               63.15   45.25   59.56           204.16
1966    6.17    I.U4      .37    4.82   19.81    1.97    3.20   43.18              66.31   47.51   62.4            219 54
19d7    0.00    1.94    5.64    5.06   20.60    2.07    3.36   38.66               69.63   49.8    65.67           224.04
190     0.06    0.00    5.92    S.31   21.94    2.17    3.S3   38.17               13.11   S2.38   68.99           233.71
19      0.00    0.00    6.22    5.58   22.93    2.28    J.71   40.71               76.76   SS.00   72.40            244.87
im      o.e 00    000    000    0.00   2408    2.40    3.89   30.36                00.60    0.00   76.02            186.99
11    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.52    4.09    6.60                 84.63    0.00   79.82            171.05
IM      0.0     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.64    4.29    6.93               89.66    0.00    0.00            95.6s
tM      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.77    4.50    7.29               93.31    0.00    0.00            100.58
199     0.00    o0       0.00    0.00    0.00    2.91    4.73    7.64              97.97    0.00    0.00            105A.4
199     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.06   4*97    9.02               102.7    0.00    0.00            110.69
199     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00              10M.01    0.00    0.00 o            l
997    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00               113.41    0.00    0.00           113.41
19"     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00              119.09    0.00    0.00           119 09
1999    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00              125.04    0.00    0.00           125.04
200     0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00
2001    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00                0.00    0.00    0.00             0.00
.-    -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   --------  ......   .............. ......... .....  
DiscOfit lt. 10 t W  veer
;  ~~~~~~~---- --                    .. .------
PY, CAP. cost
tv. VOc Saw.   14.96    4.27   17.82   15.99   87.8       9.11    14.79  164.61          433.35  157.71  348.00           1103.83
8/C 841w        1.54    1.34    5.66    5.96    S.U4    0.42    1.79    ?.4                10.69    4.97    3.64             C/6
39             24.66    4.27    17.82   15.99   70.17    9.11    14.79  142.37           433.35  157.71  293.98           1027.41
In             21.41   16.11   47.12   4.12   51.8t    L.         16.17   28.32            42.51   43.d8   41.1t             so.92
Est. III. 1   Apraisal Reprt                                              29.02            40.02   s6.02   45.Ot             36.0t
Est. 1n, "A M                                                             22.61            190.41  139.21  129.61           102.4



-64-
SRI LANK&                                                     Table 6.1
ROAD MAINTEAINCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Prolect No. 1
ROA8D *6: RA3Ag**L*t.A-NAg3*UM-VAlHtWAIl
i * * * **. ............................................................................. .... .... ......... ............. ..... ...... . .... ............... ....
Traffic factor. VPC to annual:        365;                                           Car               S1all
rfc. gr.th rate I t r  r.I           5.001:                                          46      Larg    * I Wd.    Lit    Heavy
nsIe_ss. m/ia. u'out project    5400                                               Pickup      u        Bus      Truck    truck    total
: oughess. okie, with project        i800                                          ......    -- --              ...... ------      ......
Length (0les)                          31    Est. 1992 lrft. .VPO                    256       156        0       255        0       6)7
Fla. Ca. cost (1993 Rs. vll.)   17 40
Opening year                         1983    VOC. Without Project (as/iIwo  DI                 64       sell      604      9747      (1)
Est. life Inurs)
VOC. Mfth Project INs/100.0 II)        4045      SS91     75s6      5524     8500      (1)
Vehicle Operatitg Cost Without Project 11)                         Vehicle Operating Cost With ProJett (1)
I ....... ............ ..... .------.    ............ .--------...-....-- +   . .   .   .   .   ........................................ ..
ISiS. aillionl                                                     IIs. *Iilaon)
Car               Soll                                             Car               sull                                                     Eciq.
4M0     Large   * Ned.    Ligit   Heay                             40      Large   & Ned.    LVilt   Hea"                             VOC   capital
tear    Pickup      lus       Bus     truck    truck    total               Pickup     Bus      11us      Truck    fruck total                 Savieg   Cost
..., - - -   -- - -    . . .     - ---     -- - -   - - -               - --    -----   -  -- -     .. ..    -   - -   - ---    PV    otf  - - -   - - -
1990                                                                                                                             Cap. Cost   (9.70)
1991                                                     0.00                                                              ,.0-0               0.00
19Q                                                      0.00                                                               0.oo               0.00      6.48
83    14.11    11.83        0.00    18A.6       0.00    44.74               12.30    10.37      0.00    16.74      0.00    39.40               5.33      6.80
sI4    141.1    12. 2       0.00    19.74      0.00    46.97                12.92    10.98      0.00    17.37      0.00    41.37               5.60      0.40
1ss    15.55    13.05       0.00    20.72      0.00    49.32                13.56    11.43      0.00    18.45      0.00    43.44               5.98
1916£   1633    13 .70      0.00    21.76       0.00    51.79               14 24    12.00      0.00    19.37      0.00    45.61               h.A)
1                                                        0.00                                                               0.00               0.00--------
19sf                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00    11. 60
s9                                                       0.00                                                               0.00               0.00 .--------
196                                                      0.00                                                               0.00               0.00     . ° --  -
1993                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00      M98
1992                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00       PV
1993                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00      9.70
1994                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00 .----
1995                                                     0.00                                                               0 00               0.00
1996                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               "' 10)
I"7                                                      0.00                                                               0.00               0.00
19"                                                      0.00                                                               0.00               1' lo
1999                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00
2000                                                     0.00                                                               0.00                0 00
2001 0.00                                                                                                                   0.00               0.00
17.65
Discountir  I I02 p.o.        P9. 9C Savings :   13.60           A/C Ratio      S1.40               N        oV  o 3.0            RR     21.44
Dl scontang I 1t p.s.        P9. VOC Savings o     12.33         SIC Ratio :    1.35      o.oe               3.23                IRR    21.44
(1) The 1985 VehICIe oWerting casts shinM an Table ,5 have bee re*ced by 152: to deflate thee to 1983 walues.
I ~ ~    ~ ~ 97            6J        57         .o     2.6        oo        1}                    h    l.0        oo        9J        .o     ^.1"l



-65-
SRI L.ANKA                                                   Table 6.2
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Pro1ect No. 2
4?: 6VISSIANUA-1l1TW  NM  ELITA NM
. .. ..................... ......................................... .... ...... .......... ...... .......... ._.... .... ...... . ...............
:  traffic factor. "   to _ual:         365                                           Car              S$41l
Itf. tram  ra te, Is   wif.)         50.                                            48      Lif      S lid.    Latst    Nw
I  I     ams s, mkeh.   ut project    540                                           Pickup     is        Ils     track    Truck    total
1    3. 1 ks, Olptt  roject            0                                         .
:  Losgtb IilIes)                        IJ:  Est. 1S112 traffac. Y1                   233       120        0      121         0      4802
Fa. Cap. cast 119U fs. all.)    6.10:
:6g  gru                            19041 noC. mitsI project  lO0   "I   43                  34       se11     620       9747     (1)
$st. life (VMs)                         4*
:K. : lth projct (/low  ai)           4     S  5593      185      S524      65M0     II)
viAcit aw lam  Caost ltt Proect (1)                             VdicIa OWestiog Cmto   Mlit Proj t 11)
.. . .. .... .... .................... ...                       ..................................... ... .. .
lb. mliios)                                                      (fs.  llimn)
Car               31l                                            car               Ssll                                                    Ecu.
46      Law    SId.    Lihl he                                    0       Lo,  S NiW.    Light    New                 tCC   Capitol
f7      Pickap     tus       Ins     Truck    Truk    tftal               Ptckw      Uns        us     Truck    trdk    Total               Svaq   Cost
PYof
£18                                                                                                                            Cap. Cost  (3.191
awl1                                                    0.00                                                             0.00               0.00
146                                                     0.00                                                             0.00               0.00
196                                                     0.00                                                             0.00               0.00    1340
."       5.65     4.01      0.00     4.12     0.00    13.I6                4.93     3.51      0.00     3.6l     0.00    12.11                1.67     1.o0
ls       S."      4.21      0.00     4.33      0.00 1o.47                  5.16     3.6      0.00 3oo     5     0 00    12.7n                1.16
19       6.23     4.42      0.00     4.54      0.00    1s.20               5.44     3.67      0.00    4*05      0 .0     13.35               1.64
3w       6.54     6.64      0.00      .77      0.00     s.96               5.71     4. 06     0.00     4 25     001    14.02                 1.    ------.
INS                                                     0.00                                                             0.00               0.00      4.60
15                                                      0.00                                                              0.00              0.00  --------
1991                                                    0.00                                                              0.00              0.00 .---
1991                                                    0.00                                                            0e00                000       190
199                                                     0.00                                                             0.00               0.00       98
1993                                                    0.00                                                             000                0.00      3.19
19                                                      0o00                                                             0.00               0 00  -------
1995                                                    0.00                                                              0.00              0.00
1996                                                    0.00                                                              0.00              0 00
199?                                                    0.00                                                              0.00              0.00
199                                                     0.00                                                             0o00 e             e
199                                                     0.00                                                              0.00              0 00
201                                                     0.00                                                              000 o                lo
ml5                                                     0.00                                                              0.00               0 00
7.21
.-----.  ....... ................. _.. .. ..... ...... ... ... .. ...... .............. ............................ .......... ................. ..... ...... 
liUstia     * Ia  P.a.      19. nOC saUaugs       3.66        S/C Ctlea       1.21               EY-      0.6?               to -    1 061
.__...__. _._,...... ,_._....... ..........__....._._... ._.. _..................................................
UiltiZ t5t in  p.4a          IV. NOC Salag  :    3.45          lIC Ratio     1.17                WV :   0.50                 In *     16.061
........ .  .  .... . ..... . c..................    . _    ............................................................................................a
111 IN  1961  ftc1   nowat          costs Om   to Taut* )   km    m  redued by 15 1to deflate tke  to 190  walon



-66-
SRI tNA                                                                   Table 6. 3
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Prolect No. 3
U2: COLOIO SAtLE 93
......... ......   ...  ...... .. .... .. ......... ........... ....... ......... ...... ........ . ..... ...... ........ ....... ....... ..... ...... ................
traffic factor, VP  to anla:                j5:                                                    Car                 Sull
[fc.  ritg  rate I  per w     rr.    7.03 t      :                                                 am       Large    a Nd.         Light      Heavy
:o.mm. mike. Wout projtet sse0:                                                                 Pickup        Bus   l     us       Truck      t IUck     total
:  m b_s          .as. "/ i th prOject       240:                                                 ....       ......--    ------    ------    ------    ......
: N     (s. mk,1c5)                            5:   Est. pr:wr erffic  VPD                         4747        0oe0      1220        fllt          0      0536
:Fis. Co. cost t1199   ft. sill.)    6.40: 
owine   Vn                                 I984         C. vithout project (Rs/lOW  at)             842       535        7462       528        8075       11)
Est. life  (Veas)                              6
*  :                                                 :  VK. Math Project (IsIlooo  a)                  388        5036       7023       4995       7540       (1
........................ ........................................ . ............ .. ..... .... ................... .................................... ................ ..
Vaacle Owerating Cost Nathout Project lI)                                     Vekucle Opertin    Cost Mlth Project  111
-----------------------                                                      ........ .. .. ... ........ .. ... ............
(Rs. edllon)                                                                  (Is. million)
Car                  SUal                                                     Car                  SUI                                                              ECe.
4        Large    & Ned.        LIzst      Heavy                              4WD       Large   & Nd.         Light      Heav                               "OC    Capital
tear       ickuP      Blus        gus        truck      truck      Iotal                Pickup       luS        Bus       truck       truck      total                Saving    Cost
...        ----      -----      ......    .......    ----         ........              ----    ----    ----             ----         ---    ---   Fv ot               ...---
910                                                                                                                                                   Cap. Cost   (.l35S
19611                                                              0.00                                                                         0.00                   0.01
l965                                                              0.00                                                                          0.00                  "' JO
1963                                                               0.00                                                                         0.00                  0.00        1.70
196      36.70      10.79       181.32     12.46       0.00      78.27                  34.27      10.13      17.24      11.76       0.00      73.40                  4.87        1 .0
1965     31.53       11.33      19.23      13.08       0.00      82.19                  35.98      10.64      18.10      12.35       0.00      77.01                  5.11
1596     40.46       11.90      20.20      13.74       0.00      86.30                  37.78      11.17      19.01      12.96       0.00    60.91                    S.31
IW6      42.48       12 50      21.21      14.43       0.00      90.61                  39.6t      l1.73      19.Y&      13.61       0.00      U4.9                    S.U4   --------
190      44.61       13.12      22.27      15.15       0.00      95.14                  41.66      12.32      20.96      14.29       0.00      89.22                  5 12        *  0
1969     46.84       13.78      23.38      15.90       0.00      99.90                  43. 4      12.93      22.00      15.01       0.00      93.60                  6.22  --------
199                                                               0.00                                                                          0.00                  0.00   ----
5995                                                              0.00                                                                          0.00                  0.00        1980
-                  52im                                                               0.00                                                                          0.00                  000          PV
1993                                                              0.00                                                                          0.00                  0.00        3.L5
1994                                                              0.00                                                                          0 00                  000 -------
1995                                                              0.00                                                                          0.00                   000o
1996                                                              0.00                                                                          0.00                  G ao
I99?                                    I                         0.00                                                                          0.00                   0.00
1m                                                                 0.00oo                                                                       o.r                   o0 0
1999                                                              0.00                                                                          0.00                   0.00
200W                                                               0.00                                                                         0.00                   0do
m0l                                                                0.00                                                                         0.00                   0 00
33.12
...................... ....................................... .. ... ... .... .................. ................................. ... ........... ..........  ........... ................ 
liscotioI I n02 p.a.              PY. VOC Svinmgs:    16.20                SIC  ltio     5.15                       PP :    13.05                     IlkI:   47.142
...................... ........................................................................... I... .... ... ... . .............. ...... .. ..... ... .......... ... ....... .. .
Dascu tng  6 in2  p...            PM. VO  Savings          14.20           BIC Ratio          4.90                  1FPM:   11.30                     102      * 474t
---------.......................................................... .. .... ..... . ............ .. . ....... ......... ..... ...... .... .... ..... ..... 
(1) the 1IM 10    icl    operating costs shor   tn  raoe 1   have bewn reduced by 15 t to deflate  them to 1983 values.



-67-
SRI LANKA                                                       Lable 6.4
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Prolect No. 4
&5: PERAIITI-*Wtah   am
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .............. ............................. ............. ............... ..... .... .... .... .... ..... . ... .............. ....... ............. .
traffic factor. 9w0 to annual:         361S                                           Car               Sull
ftc. gqouth rate I2 per Jr.)         5 0C2:                                           4WD      Large   S  d.    Light    Heavy
Rouhness. u/Io. u'out Project    5000                                               Pickup      Bus       lls      Trqik    truck    total
: oeghness. n/kt. with project        J200- ------ ......                                                          ---      --- -    ....
Lenth  lules1                            6    Est. 1982 traffic, vtD                   834        64       499       5          32     225)
:  Fin. Co. cost (195 Is. sail.)    5 40
opening you                           1984    v0C. Vithout project tRst1000 sl    4482          6185      8553      6027    Q99        lID
Est. life (Years)                        6
VOC, With project (Is/ION   c1a         3842     1365      Atb       5289      8015     il
.- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------!
Vhicit OPratinm  Cost without Project 11)                           Vehicle Operating Cost Mith Project (11
(ls. million)                                                       (Is. ailinfi)
Car               SUII                                              Car                Smal                                                     Ecas.
4*1     Large   & Red.    Laqht    Heavy                            4V0      Large   a Ned.    light    Heavy                           9C   Capital
*ear    Picku       lus       las      Truck    Fruck    Total               Pickup       sus      Bus     Truck    Truck    total               Sawlv    Cost
1n.                                                                                                                                 Cap. Cost   (2.73)
1981                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00
1982                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0l0
1963                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00      1.90
1984     9.03      5.47    10.31       7.t5     0.13    3A.38                 7.74     4.14      d.99      6.72      0.62    28.81                4.37        iO
195S     9 48      5.74    30.82       8.04     0.76    34.84                 8.12     4.98      9 44      7.05      0.66    30.2S                4.59
1986     9.95      6.03    11.36       8.44     O.ld    36.58                 8.S3      S.23     9.91      1.41      0.69    31.76                4 42
1997    10.45      6.33    11.93       8.86     0.84    38.41                 8.96      5.49    10.41      7.78      0.12    33.35                5.06  -------
19      10.97      6.64    12.53       9.30     0.88    40.33                 9.40      S.76    10.93      8.36      0.76    55.02                5.3l      4 :0
1989    11.52      6.98    13.15       9.77     0.93    42.35                 9.87      6.0S    31.47      8.57      0.00    36.77                S.SP -.-----
1990                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00  -
1991                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00      3980
1992                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00       eV
1993                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00      2.73
94                                                        0.00                                                                0 00                0 00  --------
395                                                       0.00                                                                0.00                0.00
1996                                                      0.00                                                                0 00                0 dO
3997                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0.00
3998                                                      0.00                                                                0.00                0100
199                                                       0.00                                                                0.00                0.00
2000                                                      0.00                                                                 0 00               0 00
2003                                                      0.00                                                                 0.00               0.00
29.Z1
.. ........ .......... ................ .......................... ..... . . .. ... .. . ... .... .... . ........ .......... .... .............
Discotting a 102 p.S.         P9. VOC Savings       14.53         I/C Ratio:    5.3J                  41PV     11.81               IP :   48.082
Oi5covti"  * In P.11p.        PV, VOC Savings:   12.13            S/C Ratio       5.07                eV    10.22                  lRie -   48.08t
(11  the 1935 veaclet Operating costs shoes in  Table 5  'ive bee  reduced by I5 I to deflate thee to 19J3 value.



-68-
SRI LAN}U                                                        Table 6. 5
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Project No. 5
As  AVISSEtl A-RAIMPUSj-PfLRAOILA-S(RESALA ROAD
...... ............................. .. .... .... .. ....... ......... .... .... ....... ....... ......  ......... .................. ........................... ..
t raffic factor, Vol to aMflu@i:          35                                              Car               SUil
*  Tfc. guth   t# It wr yr.)            *4.SOS;                                           t0      Larqe   4 Wid.    Light   HNeiv
:  bag s, Mike. *'out projet    5400                                                    PiCkup      lus      Ius      Irutk    truck    lotal
R i_ SS. ulks. smth project           3200                                           .         ... -              -         --
:L t  (il"S)                            49    Est. 1982 traftic, vPD                    364       144      203       211         4       926
Fla. Ca. cost OM98  h. fill.)   2S 80;
Opesl Ver                             1993    VOC. Wathout project (Rs/1000 oil    4638          6384     8817      6204      97411     11
:  Esl. Ilfe (veers)8-
VOC, 1ith project IR511s000 $0          3842      5365     7462      5289      80b       (1i)
.... .... ... .... ... .... .... ... .... ... .... .... ... .... ... .... ... .... .... .... ... ... .... .... ... .... .... ... ...
Valktci  Oratang Cost qithot Project (1)                            Velhicle operating Cost With Project 11)
-- = - - - -  - - - -- - - -  - - - - -                             ................... ................................. ....... .....  .. .. 
I(s.  illion)                                                       (Os. Billion)
Car               Sall                                              Car                Sall                                                     Ecou.
40      Large   A Ned.    Light    Heavy                            4o0      Large   6 Id.    Light    Heao                              VOC   CoVital
Tear    Pickup       lus      eBs       fruck    truck    Total              Pickup      los       lus      Truck    Truck    rotal              Saviag   Cost
..--      -   ----   ------  ------   ......    ------    ------             ------    ......    ------    ......    ------   ------       of     ------  ------PVof
190                                                                                                                                 Cap. Cost  155  04)    0.80
1991                                                       0.00                                                                0.00               0.00      3.20
1912                                                      0.00                                                                 0.00               0.00      7.80
I9M3    31.70    17.26    13.61    24.58         0.73   107.89               26.26    14.51    28.45    20.96        0.61    90.                 17.11      8.50
194    51.29    18.13    35.29    25.81          0.77   113.29               27.5d    15.23    29.8)    22.01        0.64    95.32               17.91
19Ji    34.95    19.03    37.06    27.10        0.v5   118.95                28.96    16.00    31.36    23.11        0.67   100.09               18.86
191     36.70    19.99    38.91    28 #6         0.85   124.99               30.40    56.40    32.9;    24.26        0.70   105.09               |9 .95
1967    3.54    20.98    40 85    29.88          0.89   131.15               31 42    17.e3    34.58    25 47        0.74   110.3S               20.80  --------
19      40.46    22.03    42.90    31.38         OM.3   137.70               33.52    18.52    36.31    ?, 75        0.77   11S.87               21.84    20. 0
1909    42.49    23.14    45.04    32.94         0.9"     44.59              35.20    19.44    38.12    28.08        0.81   121.64               22.'3  --------
1990    44.61    24.29    47.29    34.59         1.03   155.82               36.96    20.41    40.03    29.49        0.85   127.74               24.08  --
1991                                                       0.00                                                                0 00               0.00      1980
1m2                                                       0.00                                                                 0.00               0.00       PY
5993                                                       0.00                                                                0.1o 000    15.04
1994                                                      0.00                                                                 0 0Ok              0 00   ---.-
1995                                                      0.00                                                                 0.00               0.00
1996                                                      0.00 a.00                                                                               0 10
1997                                                      0.00                                                                 0 00               0.00
1992                                                      0.00                                                                 0-00               0a0O
1999                                                      0.00                                                                 0.00               0 00
2000                                                      0.00                                                                 0.00                I10
2001                                                      0.00                                                                 0.00               0.00
146.27
Discostin I IO  P.C.          PVY  VOC Savimgs      79.89         I/C Ratio       5.31                NPV:   64.86                 IRP -   5 5792
OiscSting  5 In  0.&.         PV. VOC Savings:   65.48    I        /C Ratio       4.61                NPV:   51.27                 Ila :   51.791
(1) The 1985 VuCit OWeratiOg costs shorn AR  Table 5  Save ban reaced br lb IS  tO dflate thee to 1983 vluets.



-69-
g                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SRI LANKA                           Table 6, 6
OAD HMINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Prolect No. 6
An: AWA4M -PAENITV AM
-------   .    .................................................. ........... . . .-   ............... .     ......... . . . .. .. .. .. .
traffic factor, m   to   aul         u6s                                         Car               Seal:
Ifec. gereI rate 12 Ur w r.)        5.00, 0s                                                   iarge   a Ad.    Light   Navy
Reogss. rn/b.  out project    5400 :                                           Pickep      gas     lBs      truck    Truk    total
lowss. mike. ithX  rojet            30601                                       - ...    ----   .....   -            ------ -
:Lmg t     oaes)                         8:  Est. 19C2 llfaffa. V0                   220       134        0      220        0      574
F ies. Co. cost (1933 h.  aill.)   S1.70
2 Openi" "m                            1900   VW. uitut project  s/1000 sit   4638            638      W17      6204    9s7        11 )
Est. flat  (ears)                     10
V:c, lith Project (Is/Io00  al)      3777      528      7350     5213     793      Ill)
........ .......... -=-s.......... --*--s............... -..................... ........................... ............................................. ---. ...    ^        
ehiclet Owrting Cost lithout Project (11                        Vehicle operatlig Cost With Project 11)
(Is. eallion)                                                   17s. sallies)
Car              sail                                            Ctr              Sail                                                 E(C.
480     Largt*    NW.    Light   MWa                            40       Large   & NW.   Ligt    WM,                             VoC  Ca.ttI
ea      Packep     los      Is       rruck   r[uck    letot              Pickup     las      hI      frock    Truck    total             Sviag   Cost
*---        ----    *---*-*- ------   ------ ------   ------ ...                               ------ ------ .... ...   ... e  f    ------  ------
190                                                                                                                      ?ca. Cost  (21.85)
1981                                                   0.00                                                            0.31               0.00
1983                                                   0.00                                                            0.00              0 00
1983                                                   0.00                                                            0.85              0.00
1986                                                   0.00                                                            0.08              0 do
1911                                                   0.00                                                            0.00               0.08    21.30
916     3.62     3.4       0.00     4.84     0.00    51.50               2.93     2.51     0.00      4.07     0.00     9.535             1.91    16.14
19W      3.00     3.19     0.00      S. D4    0.00    12.08              3. 10     2.64A    0.00     4.21     0.00    10.01               2.07 .----
low      3.99     3.35     0.00      5.34     0.00    12.A4               3.25     2.77'   0.00      4.49     0.00    10.51               2.57    40.40
1989     4.19     3.55     0 00      S.61i    0.00    53.32               3.41    2.91      0.00     4.75     0.00    11.03               2.28 .----
1991     4.40     3.69     0.00      5.89     0.00    13.8                3.58o    3.05     0.00     4.95     0.00    11.39               2.40    .---
1991     4.62     3. U     0.00      6.18     0.00    54.68               3.76     3 21     0.00     5.19     0.00    12.16               2.52     1980
1992     4865     4.07     0.00      6.41     0.00    15.41              3.95      3.37     0.00     5.45     0.00    12.11               2.64      IV
199      S.10     4.21     0.00      6.82     0.00    16.19               4.15     3.53     0.00     5.13     0.00    13.41               2.77~   21.85
994      5.35s    4.49     0.00      7.16     0.00    16.99              4.36      3.71     0.00     6.01     0.00    14.00               2.95    .----
1995     5.62     4.71     0.00      7.52     0.00    57.84              4.58      3.90     0.00     6. 31    0.00    14.79               3.06
1991                                                   0.00                                                            0.00               0.00
I"9?                                                   0.00                                                            0.00               0.00
1998                                                   0.00                                                            0.00               0 d0
199                                                    0.00                                                            0.00              0.00
2000                                                   0.00                                                            0.00               1 1
2001                                                   0.00                                                            0.00              0.00
74.79
liscoutisgI 1la  p.a.       IV. WC Savings:    8.28           A/C Ratioe     0.38              WPV     -13.57              1n:    i.inl
oascuitiagg i IX.*.         IV. Vet Savings       6.79       SIC Ratio       0.35               WVY   -5 -2.61            1In        1.lAn
(I) The 195 VehiCle, apprating costs shorn ini 'Tbl 5 hav 6M rWd bY IS5I to dl late thel to 1983 Valoe.



-70-
SRI IANRA                                                     Table 6, 7
OA.D MA INTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 94-CE
ECONOMIC RE-ELATION
Sub-Proiect No. 7
........ .......... .................. .......................................................... ...... ....... ..... .... . .... .. ....................... ..............................4... ...  
T traffic fltwW. V    to samul:          365                                            Car               Sail 
ftc. gram  rate I PKe    r r.1       $.0K,                                           40      Large   & W.    Light    lean
I  eumes. mike. West project    540: 1                                             PiCkp      Is        go       Track    flack    Total
*                     -.     - Wks  .it -.Prect  M-
Lt         (1ieis1)                     I    Es[t.  92 traffic, nD                    736       446      524       512        2      2220
:Fi. CIO. coSt (19U it. sill.)   19.70
Opiue  VW                            i"m    voc. withot project (hslOao i)    48              6384      891t      6204     9747    (ll
:   st   1f {gs)                   101
:VWC. mth oroject IS/1000 at)          s77      5201      7350      5213     793       II)
......................... ........................................... _............................................................................................ ............................ ...................
Vehicle Owrattg Cost Witut Project (I)                             Veilell   4ritatiaq Cost With Projoet 11)
(SI. sillton)                                                      (Is. slllte)
car               Sall                                             Car               Seal                                                    ECo.
4u      1t         1 l d.    tligt    Htm                          40      Large   t Ned.    Light    HIm                             vC   capital
Tea'   Pickup        "        Wus     Iruk    frck    total                 Pickup     1         Its     Truci    Trock t otal                 Sawip     Cost
--  --- - - - ._ .            .. ---- . ...                                 --- ... --- ------   ------ P of
190                                                                                                                              Cap. Cost  (8.20)
1901                                                     0.00                                                               0.0                0.00
1902                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.D
19U                                                      0.00                                                               0.0                0.00
1911                                                     0.00                                                               0.01               0 00
15                                                      0.00                                                               0.01               0.00      6.38
196      4.4       3.7?     6.15      4.21     0.03    18.1£                3.70      3.13      5.13     3.55      0.02    15.53               3.26         . 0
IW3      4.77      3.1       6.46     4.44      0.03    19.67                3.89     3.29      5.38     3.73      0.02    16.31               3.36--------
It*      S.01      4.18     6.73      4.66     0.03    20.66                4.08      3.46       .65     3.92      0.02    37.13               3.S3    15.10
I1       5.26      4.39      7.12     4.89     0.03    21.69                 * 28     3.63      5.93     4.11      0.02    17.91               3.71  ------1-
19"      5.2       4.61      7.47     S.14      0.03    22.77                4.50     3.81      6.23     4.32      0.03    18.0                 3.9  ----
199      5.01      4.84      7.85     5.40      0.03    23.91                4.72     4 00      6.54     4.53      0.03    19.83               4.09      1990
1992     6.09      1.03      6.24     5.67      C.03    25.!!                4.96     4.20      6.07     4.76      0.03    20.82               4.29       n9
1993     6.39      S.33     8.65      5.95      0.04    26.36               5.21      4.41      7.21     5.00      0.03    21.86               4.50      8.28
1994     6.71      5.60     9.0a      6.25      0.04    27.6                 5.47     4.63      7.57     5.25      0.03    22.95               4.?3   .......
1995     7.05      5.88     9.54      6.56      0.04    29.07               5.74      4.86      7.95     5.!l      0.03    24.10               4.97
1996                                                     0.00                                                               0.0o               o uo
1997                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00
19"                                                      0.00                                                               0.00               000
1999                                                     0.00                                                               0.00               0.00
2m                                                       0.01                                                               0.00               0o0.
m6l                                                      0.00                                                               0.00               0.00
40.27
oiscemtisll   1o: p.c.       9W. WMO Saving        13.44        SIC "atico       1.62               WVW 2    5.17               INR      3 6.652
.____,,,,,_,,,,,,,,_,.... ....... . .. -    -------------------------------------------- .. ... .. .... .... .............. .. ... .
Oistcoti5   I IOt n .c s      V  -OO Sawim p       11.02        BIc Ut:    1.10                     WV :    3.61                Ia 1     16.651
....... .......e1 . ..vehicle  -  a  _        i _ :....           e ... ---- -  ... to . . -  lat- t.e-   t.............. 1-------------- alues.............
II) tk   I"S veicle aWatiog costs _;k          uo  Tta  5   ha"   bm   rWgtd 61 13 I ts dfilk   tk"   to 198   V&ls.



-71-
Table 6, 8
ROAD MAINNA~NCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Prolect No, 8
&S$PMl4 uVEtAIS. CatOO AVf
IIraffc  ultor, WM  to   a1:         365:                                        Car               Smell
lle. Poo rate, It   wr.)            1.0on                                        48      Large  4 NW.   LttPt    Hw4:
:  lbm , "/As  s'at project    4,0                                               actkOp    Ls         S     Trust    frock    total
1 tc_n, ikb. ut  bproject           200t                                          ----   ----     -.. ----           -.. ---         .
: Lugli mlelnl                           13   Est. 1982 Traffic. VPO                6123      122      It5S     1512        0     05lo2w
Fio. Cp. cost 11163 f. clli.)   81.50 
04"i   er VW                               VKOC. Vathot Project (Is/ilOU  m1)   40         eU       6425     594       9259    (1)
Est. ille Of"s)                       13
VOC, Mlth project (Ih/O ual t        346      47        6614     44  11            (1)
ViSe, olwpaPtiI  Cost Hithbao Project (11                       V ehlcle heetimo Cost rlth Picjat Ii)
......................--------                                  ........................................... . ...............
(as. 1lle°n                                                     4ft5. wilien)
Car              Sall                                           Car               Sail( Eca.
40      Larg    A Red.   Light    WHna                           4O      Large   a   d.   Lipt    Oa                             VII   Captal
Yea    PIcket   LI          ha       fr#ck Iruck        otal             Pickup     gas      In       Frock    truk    retal             SavalW   Cost
... ---- ------                                                                            - -t of
1910                                                                                                                         Ce. Cost  461.52)
1961                                                   0.00                                                            0.63               0.03
1912                                                   0.09                                                            0.031              0.031   14.10
196                                                    0.00                                                            0.0o               0.0     11.70
191                                                    0.00                                                            0.0                0.03    INi. /0
95   14819    43 7.s      72.60    49.33      0.00   313.61             116.62    34.63    58.95    40.27     0.03   20.4                63.15    14.50
19m    155.0    45.37    16.53    51.d0       0.90   329.29             122.45    36. J6    61.69    42.2     0.0e   262.91              66.31     7.*
151    163.3     4.64    60.36    54.39       0.00   345.76             128.57    36.18   6O.99    44.39      0.0    276.13              69.6--------
19     1715.5    5.02    84.37    57.11       0.06   33.05              135.00    40.09     8.24    46.61     0.03   219.94              73.11     3.80
159   110.12    52.52    18.59    59.96       0.00   381.20             141.75    42.09    71.65    48.94     0.00   304.4               76.76-
1996   11.13    55,15    93.0 2    62.96      0.00   400.26             148.84    44.20    75.23    51.39     0.00   J19.66              84)60.
1991   151.59    57.90    97.67    66."1      0.00   420.27             156.29    46.41    7.9      53.96     0.00   335.64              64.63     1980
1992   206.sl    60.80   102.56    69.42      0.0o   441.29             164.09    48.73    82.94    S6.66     0.00   352.42              88.86      PY
1993   218.94    6..84   107.60    72.69      0 00   463.35             172.30 J   1.16    87.09    59.49     0.00   370.04              93.31    40.52
1994   229.89    67.03   113.07    76.5J      0.00   486.?2            160.91    53.72    91.45    62.46      0.0   381.55              9137  ------.
9s9   241.38    70*Y    118.72    60.36       0.00    110.64           169.9    56.41    96.02    65.59       0.00   407.97             102.67
19%    251.45    73.90   124.66    84.3       0.00   536.39            I"l 4*    59.23   10o.62    68.87      0.00   428.37             106.01
1997   26.1?2   77.60   130.89    6.59       0.00   563.21             209.43    62.19   10S 66    72.31      0.00   449.79             113.41
19s    279.43    61.48   137.43    90.2      0.00   591.37             219. 0    65.30   111.15    75.93      0.00   472.26             119
1999   293.40    65.55   144.31    97.68      0.00   620.93            230.90    68.56   116.71    79.72      0.00   495.69             125.04
2000                                                   0.00                                                   0.00     0.00                [J
2001                                                   0.00                                                   0.00     0.00               0.00
I A2. 76
11scmstie I 102 P.A         PV. VOCW Savaias    393.9         6/C Ratil      9.72               SPY    353.43               lall    '2.4
.--------------- - - ------ - ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ......
3stcstis   UI  P-4.         n?. VOl Svws *  317.49            SIC Ratie      0.52               WVY   266.24                II*   42.44
.                      ...-F---------*-------  --- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- ------------- -------------
(1  11 1965   vicle owratieg costs sh   in    , a., .  s  have bo  re*e4 by 1S  Z to def late te  to 19l velus.



-72-
SRIANKA                                                        Tablo 6. 9
ROAD MNTENANCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
ECONOMIC R-EVALUATION
Sub-Project No. 9
INMOWI PeRIUIC MIUIEIUU
,..... ............................ ..................................................
traffic fstt r. m    to tlI:           165                                            Ca r11al
T I     e g rb    l2rtI   W     Ifvr.l   5.003:                                          43      Ltg    Iho.    Light    NMau
:  _ffSs. sail, SoU't Prectt  sou                                                   Picke      hs        bs       Iruck    truck    Total
:  t_ss. ga/la, oIth projtt           190...... -------   ......   -----    ......
Ligt     aell)                         141    Est. 1912 trafic, VPD                     58       275       233       360         6     1440
Fla. Ca. cost (1963 ft. fall.) I      2.10
: 0e. l ry  (h )                      1964 ISC.  alltet Project (isliNOD s1a    442             4195      0553      6027     O9OI      (1)
Est. life htas)                          6;
: oC. MIth project (lk/01  oil          4045       593    7nu5       5524      a5m       111:
weicle  pratoin  Cost ihthst Proet (I)                              Vehicle  uwatta   Cost lth Prrojtt (l)
....................................-                               ............................................... ................ ........................... 
(fs. silliasn                                                       its. sallcal}
CU                Suit                                              Cr                 Seall                                                        .
409     Lat t        ad.    Light      sa"t                         41       Large   I    .    Light    NM                              SO    Cptul
en      Piad        tos       Ios      trlt   trck    total                  Pailk       in        ks      Iftlk   Intl    Total                 Sawasg   Cost
,,,,_ . ..... ...- --- -     ---.-     ------    ------    ------       ... .... -----                                            tv  f    ------  ------
190                                                                                                                                 Co. Cast  (31.72)
191                                                       0.00    0.952                                                        0.00               0.03      1.30
1962                                                      00.0.00 I                                                           o.e                 e.eo       so
£96                                                       0.00      lOS                                                       0.00                0A.0      7.60
1914   143.9    9%.51   11s.00   123.10          ..21   417985      1.10   129.69    a1.27   103.95   112.14         2.09   431.75               43.09    iie,'0
193   151.14   101.34    1167.3   129.26        3.37   S30.86       1.16   136.39    91.63   1090.0    l1414    3.04.-  46.59                   4*.21    I1.20
19a6    18.6    101.41   124.61   U3S.72        S.S4   529.03       1.22   L43.21    96.21   114.50   124.41         3.19   481.52               WU.51      6 10
s7   16.63   111.73   130.90   142.51           3.7S   551.48       1.26   110.37   101.02   120.22   130.63         3.35   503.60               49.6   --------
196    174.9    111.3    1W7.4S   149.63        3.90   38.26        1.34   I51.69   106.1   126.24   137.14          3.2   330.61                52.3      410 to
1909   i3.71   123.18   144.32   157.12         4.09   612.42       1.41   15.76   111.30   132.35   144.62          3.69   557.42               5.500  --------
1996                                                      0.00      1.46                                                      0.00                000  -. 
1991                                                      0.00      1.55                                                      0.00                0.00      1960
199                                                       0.00      l b. 000                                                                      e.00       v
1993                                                      0.00      1.71                                                       0.00               0.00    31.72
£994                                                      0.00      1.60                                                     0e.0                 0.00 .--------
199                                                       0.00      1609                                                      0.00                0.00
199                                                       0.00      16                                                        0e.0                0  e10
1997                                                      0.00      2.06                                                      0.00               0e.0
1996                                                      0.00      2.16                                                      0.00                Q.UO
1999                                                      0.00      2.29                                                      0.00                0.00
2000                                                      0.00      2.41                                                     0o.0         0         de
2CU                                                       0.00      2.53                                                      0.00                0.00
293.12
............. . ..... . ........................... ...... ................................. .........................   .. .   ..........   .....   ................ ....... ...... ... .... ...................................... 
Sasc iasthl   63 P.4.  n        . SOC Sviam       143.37          SIC Rtioe       4.12               WVS   111.41                  IN 0     43.76
...........- -........ -- - ----   - ,----,.,----------------,-,,.------------------------..........--------------- .. ...   ........................................................  .
lSitwiai  1123 P.O.           P. VOC Seaiast    125.61            SIC Rtio        4.29               WVS    96.33                  IN3      43.163
1T........... . ...... ..............  .. ........................a....b..........b........c......13...t3 v              s.
(1)  Ihe I   VO I  Q 1915oft' etatU csts _ IO Tabl* 5   haeb"n retctts Ol 1  IS tO dtf lifew tk    te IMvNSt3tt.



-73-
SRI1LAU                                                       T           *able 6.10
ROAD MAINTEKNCE PROJECT
Credit 900-CE
EC           C RE-EVALUATION
Sub-Proiect No. 10
. ......... ........ .. . .................... ............................... .......................... ........................ . .......... ............. ......... ...... 
traffic factor, VP to ammfll:           S                                                             s oil
rf:. quo  rate 1 w fr r               .0012' saoe1                                                   I Ned. tlwt H
_u         a/ak    aet eroject    m0                                                 cks      l         on      Trukh   rruk    total
Sa us  Mie/h. uith proect                                                        ...        ... ...            --- ...
L:ogo   (oil"l) I1                    1ie    Est. 1982 Irifac, VP$                    s7,      200       256       34         0      1450
Fie. Cs. cost (963 hU. sill.) 178.40:
milm   ew                            1982    vC. lithut project (silogo all    463            64        8of1     624       9747      (1I
(St. life (Iers)                       10
V9CUith proct tsIIOUOal)                  0         6        0         0        0      II)
........ .............  .........      .         * .....................  X*^¢.. ..... .. ..-*...........................    ..................... . ...
Vehicle Oweatiag cost Nitbost Project 12)                          vdicle owatimg cost vith Project (2)
.. .       ..........         ........................             ................... . ...... . .s
(Is. milionm                                                       (h. ailbom)
Car               S"II                                             Cu                sil                                                      Wte.
40      Lag    a * led.    Liht    New                             46      Large   lad         Lzht    am                             VU    Ceatal
er    Pichkp         In      ls       truck    truck    lotal              Pickep      Ins       on      Tre*      Iruth    total              "wVi     cod
.-            . ------  --   ----   *-----   ------ .f ------   . .    . .                                                 -           Ft o
1l9                                                                                                                             Ct. Cost  (5.617   M6.M
1981                                                     0.00                                                               0.06               61.111    I.A
192    15.41    10.44    12.IS    13.26        0.00    51.45                                                                0.6               51.45   JS '6
3963    16.3      10.96    12.76    13.92       0.60    54.63                                                               0.I               54.62    21.10
1914    11.20    11.51    13.40    14.42       0.00    56.U3                                                                6.n              5s.11       . /0
1965    16.06    12.06    16.07    15.35       0.06    59.56                                                                0.e               59.5       4 U.96
19616   16.96    12.69    14.77    16.12       0.00    62.54                                                                0.66              62.54      4.i6
I9"7    19.91    13.32    35.SI    16.92       0.00    6S.67                                                                0.06              O.N --
196     20.91     15.99    16.26    17.77      0.00    68.5                                                                 O.OD              6.95   139.10
f9      21.9      14.69    17.10    18.6        0.06    72.40 D.oe                                                                            n.46  -------
l3      23.05    15.42    11.95    19.59        0.06    16.02                                                               o.oe              76.2      .-------
1991    24.20    16.19    138.5    20.57        0.00    79.82                                                               0.66              79812      19ff
199      0.o6      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.01                                                               0.00               0.6        eV
1993     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00      0.00     0.00                                                               0.01               6.66    f.67
1994     0.00      0.00     0.00      0.O0     6.06      0.00                                                                .00               06.O  ------
199      0.00      0.00     0.06      0.00     0.00      0.06                                                               0.00               0.6
1996     0.00      0.06     0.0       0.00     0.00      0.00                                                              0o00 ollft
i1997    0.0       0.00     0.00      0.06     0.00      0.00                                                               00.6               0 00
1199     0.06     0.0       0.00      0.06     0.06      0.00                                                               00.0               O 
19"      0.OD     0.0       0.00      0.00     0.06      0.06                                                               0.66               0.00
200D     0.0      0.06      6.00      0.06     0.060O.00                                                                    0.60               n nol
2001     0.00     0.06      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00                                                               0.OD               0.0O
541.10
... ..._ _. ....._........... .... ... .. .. . ......... ......... ......................................................................... ................... ............................... .
l ti     og; I In  P.m.     Pn. vcC  aUvta    316.37            S/C Ratio'    3.31                 WV  :  220.10                In  -   41.132
.   _........_. . . .......... . ... ...... .................................................. === ... .......... ............... ................ ........................ .
Simtis 6 122 p.a.            PV, 506 Savis : 218.66             S/C  atio:    3.12                 WVY   139.35                 In:   41.133
.................. . ........................... _.... .... ... ... ....... .............. .......................... ...... ........ .......... ............... .
(1) As        4 eId     at  td  rgice for A". of J Mths eOa ker ae   a 10-  r Wriod Sitbat the Projet, ad  Na  tr raffic
diwrsaf d  16 mi.. bd M     a   verg  of NA estiates fo  sc  bride.    esults is ave. of 136 ad ita   ien Wp   echtle W   itr. a
lerstadord btw  reob sith est. re_n           s -lof  7eD m/i.  file   wirsal I         t utd 406       ; av. diesia of 20 m.; 6 mts
at Of seviCe. 1lSt1 costs Of aCcidts ad twur  bridpes).  Oely te ICraC                 tal costs uae so       re.
(2) tI  13915  ilCIe  erW     teg costs shorn amSle           av eem   redKed by IS S to etflate the  to 193 sIIn.



MAP SECTION



lORD 1440
SPI LANKA                         RIL1S
Kankesaur  .                                                 ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
m<         18RD PROJECr ROADS
FROPOSED ROADS BY GOVERNMENT
IBRD PROJECT BRIDGES
PROPOSED BRIDGES BY GOVERNMENT
A     EXISTING DOH WORKSHOPS
-EXISTING ROADS
_.---.---. RAILWAYS
-fi --i * DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
TCilam-   .. mnarla
T9Imonnann                                        A      ..   
S~~~~ ~ j0 zO Y      o              1,X, a0              *a              ,
*__octMriyo    OrOwEohnnrO                            Boy  of Bengol
I..                                                                                                                                            a.'V  1 
/n o   o n                                  ,        ,           P DN AQ                         A 
0 c e o n
A b   Ip,,ff   X   X   1             f                ~~~~~~~~I BATT'Cs 'OAa
. f0/*                                   A  L   -  
, t4e90mbo ,47 , t~~--s~ (N-'1 } AMPARAI
-7'~~~~~-LObB r                            _                                                        ONARAGALA  27
Ra4tmolOrt,isFa j~    
7.V.
rs r.w_errset ~    ~    ~      * jnum R- *  _-  -~^                            Wellowoyo
*rrour4r .. - <  \  \r
od~~~~~~- 1;N ) A \ivnie{_ f_
PAKISTANJ                         Bentot\
,~~    ~~                                   -.P\>S '{  '\>\                      ' 
I NDIA                                                                          4        c           OcecTn
.SRI LANKA



