Document of                  01
The World Bank                                           V
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2512-CE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
April 18, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1            =   Rs 15.8
Rs 1                US$0.063
Rs 1 million        US$63,290
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
DME       -    Department of Machinery and Equipment
DOH       -    Department of Highvays
RTB       -    Regional Transport Board
SDCC      -    State Development and Construction Corporation
SLCTB     -    Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               The Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
Amount:                 US$16.5 million equivalent.
Terms:                  Standard.
Project Description:   The project aims to improve the highway system of Sri
Lanka by a program of enhanced routine and periodic
maintenance, thereby reducing transport costs. The
project would provide for rehabilitation and limited
improvement of 112 miles of road; resealing or resur-
facing of about 150 additional miles; strengthening,
repair or replacement of 30 bridges and procurement
of road maintenance and workshop equipment. The
project would also strengthen the road maintenance
services of the Department of Highways and lay the
foundation for improved routine and periodic
maintenance.
Estimated Cost:                          US$ Million Equivalent
Local      Foreign        Total
Component
1.  Equipment and Tools              0.35        4.69           5.04
2.  Materials                        0.62        1.39           2.01
3.  Spares and Supplies              0.04        0.60           0.64
4.  Local Staff                      3.85         -             3.85
5.  Technical Assistance             0.11        1.04           1.15
6.  Contract (Civil) Work            3.28        3.23           6.51
Sub Total                      8.25       10.95         19.20
Physical Contingency           0.81        0.87           1.68
Price Contingency              2.53        1.59          4.12
Subtotal                   11.59       13.41         25.00
Taxes and Duties               3.75         -            3.75
Grand Total                15.34       13.41         28.75
1 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official dutis. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Financing Plan:                           US$ Million Equivalent
Local      Foreign       Total
IDA                               3.09        13.41        16.50
Government                       12.25          -          12.25
Estimated
Disbursement:                             US$ Million Equivalent
IDA FY        1980   1981   1982    1983    1984
Annual         1.0    4.6    4.4       4.5     2.0
Cumulative    1.0    5.6   10.0    14.5    16.5
Economic Rate of Return:          36%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2334-CE dated March 30, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka for the
equivalent of US$16.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Road
Maintenance Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The latest economic report, "Development in Sri Lanka:  Issues and
Prospects" (Report No. 1937-CE, March 22, 1978) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on March 23, 1978. Country Data are provided in Annex I.
3.        Sri Lanka has achieved social progress far beyond that of other
countries with comparably low per capita incomes. Literacy, health, and life
expectancy are high; nutrition is adequate, and mortality and population
growth rates have been declining. These impressive gains have been achieved
despite generally low output and employment growth. Per capita GDP growth
was only 0.9% per annum in the 1948-60 period; it accelerated to 2.1% in
the 1960s and then declined to 1.3% per annum in the 1970s. Throughout the
1960s and through much of the 1970s, these modest output gains were eroded
by adverse terms of trade trends. This disappointing performance has been
accompanied by a disturbing increase in the level of open unemployment. In
the 1970s, while the labor force has been growing at about 125,000 per year,
employment has been rising by about 85,000, much of it in the form of unpro-
ductive jobs. The number of unemployed has, therefore, been rising, and open
unemployment is estimated at over one million or 20% of the labor force.
4.        The gains in the social field were made possible by favorable ini-
tial conditions. Compulsory primary education was introduced as early as 1901.
The food ration was introduced in 1942. Thus, at the time of Independence
in 1948, Sri Lanka already enjoyed high levels of adult literacy and life
expectancy. These initial gains were consolidated and expanded in the post-
Independence period through large expenditures on social services and the food
subsidy, which accounted for two-fifths to one-half of government revenues in
the 1960s and 1970s. These expenditures have been financed by harnessing the
surpluses of Sri Lanka's three major tree crops (tea, rubber, and coconut),
which provided the Government with both an easy revenue source and foreign
exchange earnings.
1/   This part is the same as Part I under the Kurunegala Rural Development
Project (Report No. P-2492-CE).



- 2 -
5.        There were both measurable and non-measurable socio-economic benefits
flowing from these improvements in health, nutrition, and education, such as
the decline in fertility and the relatively low rate of urbanization. At the
same time, there were significant costs arising from the firm commitment of
successive governments to maintain these social gains. The fiscal burden of
these expenditures imposed a high degree of inflexibility on Sri Lanka's
policymakers in their attempts to accelerate long-term growth. That inflex-
ibility increased over time as growth slowed down and in particular, the
ability of the tree crop subsector to provide the resources for the social
programs weakened as commodity prices kept falling and productivity suffered
due to inadequate incentives. Moreover, the gains in education had a nega-
tive impact in the form of large numbers of educated unemployed who posed a
challenge to the established political order. With political parties com-
peting with each other to offer inducements to the electorate, governments
have failed to focus social expenditure programs more narrowly on specific
groups living in poverty, making these unnecessarily costly.
6.        In the 1960-77 period, gross domestic product at constant prices
rose by 3.8% per annum. This performance masks a marked deceleration in the
growth of the productive sectors of the economy between the 1960s and the
1970s. GDP growth slowed down from 4.4% per annum in the 1960s to 3.0% in
the 1970-77 period. Growth fell from 3.4% to 1.9% in agriculture; from 6.2%
to 2.3% in manufacturing.
7.        The key to the slowdown in GDP growth lies largely in the slow
growth of agriculture, which accounts for over one-third of GDP and four-
fifths of export earnings. Tea and coconut output has been declining steadily
from the mid 1960s; rubber, after showing a rapid increase in the 1960s,
stagnated in the 1970s. Erratic weather conditions, declining commodity
prices, a rising effective tax burden, and low producer returns combined with
the uncertainties caused by a long, drawn-out land reform (1972-75) depressed
producer incentives and, hence investment and production, to new lows. These
problems were aggravated by a dual exchange rate, introduced in 1968, which
discriminated against traditional exports and in favor of food imports.
8.        Paddy production, which grew at 7.4% per annum in the 1964-70
period, and at 4% during the 1960s as a whole slowed down to 0.7% per annum
in the 1970-77 period. The decline in yields and cropping intensities is
attributable principally to a sharp deterioration in the institutional sup-
port for production programs. The only bright spot on the agricultural scene
has been the rapid increase in output of subsidiary food crops in the 1970s.
This represents gains in acreage rather than yields and is in response to the
improved incentives arising from a 1970 ban on imports of these crops.
9.        Manufacturing output in the 1970s also decelerated due to the cumu-
lative impact of declining investment levels, severe foreign exchange short-
ages that necessitated import rationing (with serious consequences for a



- 3 -
sector in which imported raw materials account for 70% of the value of raw
materials used), the exhaustion of import substitution possibilities, and
inefficiencies in management of the public sector, which now accounts for
66% of the gross value of production in organized industry.
10.       In general, economic growth was constrained by a persistent foreign
exchange shortage throughout the 1960s and 1970s, inadequate levels of saving
and investment, and the low efficiency of resource use. Sri Lanka's terms of
trade have deteriorated steadily since the early 1960s and worsened sharply in
the mid 1970s following increases in the price of imported food, fertilizer,
and petroleum. The share of these three items in Sri Lanka's total imports
jumped from about 50% in 1972 to 70% in 1975. This sharp increase has, to
some extent, offset the improvement in export prices (particularly of tea)
since 1973. Trade policies that discriminated against exports and encouraged
import substitution caused a slow growth in exports of 2.5% per annum between
1960 and 1976, which acted as a significant constraint on growth for an econ-
omy in which exports accounted for 30% of GDP in 1960, and, at 22%, are still
substantial today.
11.       The share of consumption in GDP has remained relatively stable and
high (at 86%) over the last decade and a half. Domestic savings, when
adjusted for the dual exchange rate, fell from 11.5% of GDP in 1966-70 to 9%
in 1971-76. This deterioration in savings performance is largely explained
by a decline in public savings. Public savings averaged a mere 1% of GDP in
the 1960s, shrinking rapidly in the 1970s, and eventually becoming negative.
This poor performance is attributable to the large and growing burden of sub-
sidies and transfers, which worsened in the 1970s because of the increasing
disparity between import costs and officially determined prices. Private
savings were adversely affected in the 1970s by political uncertainties, a
confiscatory tax burden, and falling real interest rates.
12.       Gross investment has averaged 16% of GDP at current market prices
in the 1960-76 period. In real terms, investment has been declining, and
there has been persistent failure throughout this period to raise the level
of public investment (around 6-7% of GDP), while private investment in produc-
tive activities was, on the whole, given little encouragement. The efficiency
of investment has also been rather low due to both neglect of some key sectors
and a failure to exploit the full potential of past investments. Much of the
investment in agriculture was directed to paddy; but the tree crop subsector
was neglected, resulting in an erosion of the latter's production base. In
the manufacturing sector, capital-intensive import substitution was pursued
to the neglect of labor-intensive export-oriented production.  Utilization
of the potential already established has been uniformly low. This has been
reflected in low cropping intensities and yields in the agricultural sector,
and low-capacity utilization in manufacturing.
13.       In the elections of July 1977, the eighth since Independence, the
United National Party won a large majority. In the relatively short period



- 4 -
that it has been in office, it has embarked on a major reform of political
institutions and economic policies. A new constitution has been enacted
introducing a presidential form of government. Proportional representation
has replaced the first-past-the-post voting system. A new District Minis-
terial system has been established and District Ministers have been appointed
to each of the 24 districts in Sri Lanka to help increase local level partici-
pation in district planning and administration, and improve implementation of
development programs. District Ministers are appointed by the President from
Members of the Parliament and function as ex officio Deputy Ministers to all
development-oriented ministries for development programs in their respective
districts. The District Minister presides over a Development Council com-
prising Members of Parliament from the electorates in the district and others
nominated to the Council. The Secretary to the District Minister is also the
Government Agent for the District. The development councils are entrusted
with the tasks of planning, coordination, implementation and evaluation of
district programs and allocation of the district's share of funds from the
decentralized budget.
14.       The policy changes introduced by the new government are designed
to address the economic problems described in paras 3-12 above. The Govern-
ment identified its objectives as the revival and resuscitation of the
economy and increased employment through (i) increased capacity utilization
in the productive sectors, (ii) stimulation of savings and investment, and
(iii) efforts to encourage exports and import substitution in foodgrains.
A program of policy reforms has been developed in close consultation with
the IMF. Its principal aim is to dismantle controls over resource allocations
and initiate price adjustments with a view to establishing more realistic
relative prices. These reforms were supported initially by an IMF standby
arrangement covering 1978 for SDR 93 million. On January 26, 1979, the
Fund's Executive Board approved an SDR 260 million Extended Arrangement
covering the 1979-81 period.
15.       The policy reforms introduced so far include:
Exchange Rate Reform: The exchange rate was unified on November 16, 1977,
and allowed to float at a depreciated rate of Rs 16 = US$1.00. This implied
a depreciation of 46% against the official rate prevailing prior to unifica-
tion, 11.2% with respect to the Foreign Exchange Entitlement Certificate
rate, and 29.5% with respect to a transactions-weighted average rate of the
two markets. 1/
Import Liberalization: The trade and payments regime has been liberalized.
With the exception of foodgrains and petroleum products, public sector import
monopolies have been terminated. Prior licensing of imports has been abol-
ished for all but a handful of commodities. The tariff structure has been
revised and simplified.
1/   Prior to unification, all exports other than tea, rubber and coconut
products and all imports other than food, fertilizers and drugs were
channelled through the certificate market. Since November 1972, the
FEEC rate was maintained at a 65% premium over the official rate.



Interest Rate Reform: To encourage financial savings and discourage
speculative imports, interest rates have been raised sharply.
Price Controls. These have ended for most commodities.
Budgetary Policies: The unification and depreciation of the exchange rate
caused tree crops export tax revenues and the cost of food, fertilizer and
petroleum subsidies to rise sharply. Export tax rates on tree crops were
raised further to mop up windfall profits while attempting to leave adequate
producer margins. Business Turnover Tax rates have been substantially lowered
and rationalized to be consistent with the new import tariff and exchange rate.
To limit the growth in food subsidies, the rice and sugar rations were confined
to the poorer half of the population and the subsidy on imported wheat flour
was reduced through adjustments in the domestic price. To offset the adverse
impact of these changes, public sector wages have been adjusted upwards on two
occasions, and an income supplement has been introduced at Rs 50 per month to
benefit the poorest households in which one or more persons has no gainful
employment. Public corporations have been asked to pass on cost increases,
except in the case of fertilizer, petroleum, milk, and public transport, where
price increases were initially deferred to cushion the impact on consumers.
The Government has subsequently made some adjustments in bus fares, petroleum,
and fertilizer prices. These changes, taken together, have enabled an increase
in public savings and contributed, together with higher aid receipts, to a
sizable step up in capital expenditures.
Tax Reform: The tax structure has been rationalized and simplified with a
view to increasing the elasticity of revenues. The burden of personal and
company taxation has been lowered.
Agricultural Pricing Policies: The domestic procurement price for rice has
been increased by 21%. With the related increase in flour prices, incentives
for paddy and other flour substitutes have been improved. Fresh coconut
prices have recently been increased by 30% and the export duty on coconut
products has been appropriately adjusted. The unification of the exchange
rate also ends discrimination against tree crops; however, the increase in
export taxes takes away a substantial part of these gains. These reforms
constitute only a beginning, and the Government anticipates the need for
further price adjustments designed to reduce the continuing large burden
of subsidies and current transfers (currently at over one-third of govern-
ment revenues).
16.       The economy's response to the policy reforms has been encouraging.
Real gross national product in 1978 is estimated to have increased by 5.7%.
The improved availabilities of inputs following import liberalization, an
increased role for the private sector in distribution, and good weather helped
attain a record paddy harvest. Industries, other than tree crop processing,
benefited from the removal of price controls and increased access to imported
raw materials and spare parts. Output of manufacturing industries is estimated
to have risen by 9%, and electricity consumption by 13%, in 1978. After an
initial slow start, private investment has also responded well to the reforms.
This is partly reflected in the near threefold increase in capital goods



- 6 -
imports from US$83 million in 1977 to an estimated US$225 million in 1978.
Transport operators, in particular, have rushed to modernize their antiquated
fleets, resulting in sizable imports of transport equipment. Others have
taken advantage of accelerated depreciation provisions to replace worn out
machinery and equipment. Applications for new investments have been encourag-
ing. Public investment has also shown a major increase in 1978.
17.       Despite the ending of price controls, policy induced price increases,
and related wage increases, inflation in 1978 is estimated at 15%. Money
supply growth has slackened, and the budget has had a contractionary effect
due to under-expenditure on capital account. Interest rate reform has ensured
positive real interest rates, contributing to a shift in asset preferences and
easing the task of managing the balance of payments.
18.       With import liberalization, merchandise imports in 1978 rose by 39%
to US$984 million. Merchandise exports rose by 13% to US$847 million. Thus,
the current account deficit swung from a surplus of US$77 million in 1977 to
a deficit of US$105 million in 1978. However, since aid disbursements also
rose sharply, net foreign exchange reserves rose by US$94 million in 1978.
Gross foreign exchange reserves rose to US$397 million, or 4.5 months of
imports. Thus, despite import liberalization, Sri Lanka's balance of payments
remained well in control. The exchange rate averaged Rs 15.60 = US$1.00 dur-
ing 1978, appreciating modestly against the dollar and depreciating against
the SDR.
19.       While the overall performance of the economy has been good, there
remained several underlying weaknesses, particularly the inadequacy of incen-
tives and the poor quality of management of the tea estates, severe managerial
problems in the State industrial corporations, shortages of skilled manpower
and inadequate construction capability. The Government is aware of these
weaknesses, and technical and financial assistance programs are in the pro-
cess of being developed to address some of these problems.
20.       The economic reforms have been accompanied by a major effort at
stepping up public investment. In this context, the Government attaches the
highest priority to three major new programs: (i) Accelerated implementation
of the Mahaweli Ganga Development Program involving telescoping construction
of key remaining works of the 30-year Master Plan for Sri Lanka's largest
river into a 7-10 year period. (Three major reservoir projects are to be
launched with international assistance in 1979 and 1980 at a cost of over
US$1,000 million (in 1978 prices), to be spread over eight to ten years.
When completed, these projects will irrigate 215,000 hectares of new and
existing land in the dry zone and generate 390 MW of power.) (ii) A 200
square-mile free trade zone north of Colombo, under a newly constituted
Greater Colombo Economic Commission. (The first Investment Promotion Zone
near Colombo's international airport, Katunayake, is off to a good start, and
some 50 proposals involving a total investment of US$100 million have been
approved by end-December, 1978.) (iii) A housing and urban renewal program
with its main focus on the Colombo metropolitan region.
21.       Recognizing the enormous financial and manpower burden of these
schemes, the Government has, in consultation with the Bank, begun preparation
of a medium-term public investment program which will attempt to ensure



- 7 -
consistency between the multiple objectives of Government policy and the
financial, administrative and manpower resources available for attaining those
objectives. An initial outline of the program, incorporating the capital bud-
get for 1979, is to be presented to the May/June 1979 Aid Group meeting. The
program itself is to be completed in late 1979. It is seen as a rolling pro-
gram, emphasizing the annual capital budget and making such adjustments in
objectives and content as are deemed necessary by short-term developments and
opportunities that present themselves.
22.       The Government has identified three major policy objectives in the
medium term: (i) the creation of over one million new jobs between 1979 and
1983 to absorb the 630,000 expected additions to the labor force and make a
significant dent in the backlog of the unemployed; (ii) acceleration of eco-
nomic growth to 5.5% per annum; and (iii) structural improvement in the bal-
ance of payments through reduced dependence on tree crop exports and import
substitution in food. The program envisages a total public investment of
Rs 46 billion over the 1979-83 period ($2,900 million), some 60% of total
(gross) investment. Investment is expected to average 24.5% of GNP in the
1979-83 period, as against 16% in the 1971-76 period. To enable this increase
to materialize, domestic savings are expected to average about 14% of GNP, a
substantial improvement over the 9% recorded in the 1971-76 period. The
program, however, relies heavily on a substantial increase in net external
inflows, which are estimated to average 11% of GNP throughout the period,
as against an average of 2.3% in the 1970-76 period. These external flows
will finance over two-thirds of the public investment program.
23.       The underlying public investment strategy is to balance the large
investment requirements of the Government's high priority program against the
urgent rehabilitation and fresh investment needs in other sectors. The main
thrust of the public sector program is to lay the foundation for longer term
development, both by improving the efficiency of use of existing infrastruc-
ture investments and by expanding the longer term growth capacity of the
economy. The strategy thus implicitly relies on the private sector to respond
to the economic reforms and the stimulus of the public sector investment pro-
gram, and provide much of the short-term growth.
24.       The success the Government enjoys in attaining its medium-term
development objectives is dependent on the further reforms needed to improve
price and export incentives, and management in the public sector. It is also
dependent on additional efforts to mobilize domestic resources and address
absorptive capacity constraints such as manpower shortages and planning and
implementation capability. However, success is ultimately contingent on a
well-designed program of external financial and technical assistance. This
is particularly because the proposed increase in investment, together with
the new import liberalization policy will cause imports to grow much more
rapidly than in the past. Moreover, Sri Lanka's terms of trade are expected
to worsen over the medium term, due in the main to an expected decline in real
tea unit values, and an increase in foodgrain import costs. Thus larger aid
flows are needed to ensure that an ambitious development program, with a
strong rehabilitation component, can be implemented within the framework of



- 8 -
a liberalized import regime. Such assistance will also help finance about
two-thirds of the public investment program. In this context, local cost
financing will be needed to support this effort, particularly in the early
years, as domestic resource mobilization efforts begin to gather momentum.
25.       Aid donors have responded enthusiastically to the new policy envi-
ronment in Sri Lanka. Aid commitments in 1978 from members of the Sri Lanka
Aid Group totalled $400 million, an increase of 64% over 1977. At the 14th
Meeting, donors also expressed strong support for the accelerated Mahaweli
Program. The grant element of aid commitments is currently around 65% and is
expected to improve further. The debt service ratio in 1978 stood at 10.3%,
declining from 15.0% in 1977, due to improved export earnings and the decline
in outstanding short- and medium-term borrowings. The ratio is expected to
drop further to 9.4% in 1979.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
26.       Since the beginning of its operations in Sri Lanka in 1954, the Bank
Group has made eight loans totalling US$73.4 million (net of cancellations)
and sixteen credits totalling US$167.2 million (net of cancellations and
exchange adjustments) in support of 22 projects. About 52% of Bank Group
assistance has been for agriculture (irrigation, agricultural, and dairy
development), 26% for power, and the remainder for Development Finance
Company operations, highways, a program credit (mainly involving the import
of raw materials for industry), and water supply. Seven loans and five
credits (including cancellations) have been disbursed so far. During FY78,
IDA credits for a total of US$33.5 million were approved for a Tree Crop
Rehabilitation (Tea) Project, a Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project and
a credit line to DFCC. An IDA credit in the amount of US$20.0 million for
a Rural Development Project has been approved in FY79. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank Group operations as of February 28, 1979, together
with notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
27.       An IFC equity investment of about US$100,000 equivalent in DFCC and
an IFC non-revolving line of credit of US$2.0 million to the government-owned
Bank of Ceylon for on-lending to private small- and medium-scale industrial
enterprises were also approved in FY78. An investment of US$3.25 million to
the Pearl Textile Mills, Ltd. (Ceylon) was approved by IFC's Board of
Directors in 1970, but cancelled the same year because Government approval
for the project was withdrawn. IFC has also recently approved an investment
of US$3.32 million in a synthetic textile mill, and US$986,000 in a polypro-
pylene bag manufacturing plant.
28.       The Bank Group's current strategy is focused on the agricultural
sector to support Government efforts to increase food production and reduce
its dependence on food imports, and to raise productivity, employment, in-
comes and living standards of the rural population in Sri Lanka. Projects to
support industry and basic infrastructure are also included. The Bank Group



- 9 -
has agreed to assist the Government of Sri Lanka to accelerate the development
of the Mahaweli Ganga development areas by helping to develop an implementation
strategy and to coordinate external assistance for project preparation and
implementation. It is expected that significant investment opportunities for
IDA and other sources of external aid will be associated with this effort.
Appraisal has been largely completed for a small- and medium-scale industry
project. Projects in other fields, including agricultural extension and adap-
tive research, water supply and sewerage, tree crop rehabilitation (rubber),
road transport, and telecommunication are also being prepared for possible IDA
financing.
29.       The Bank Group presently accounts for 10.2% (IBRD 3.3%; IDA, 6.9%)
of Sri Lanka's total debt outstanding and disbursed, and 6.5% (almost totally
Bank) of debt service. It is projected that the Bank Group's share in total
external debt will increase to 16% by 1985 (with the Bank's share declining
to 0.7%). The Bank and IDA shares in the debt service are expected to decline
to about 4.5% by 1985.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
30.       The small size of Sri Lanka, coupled with the concentration of the
population in the southwest corner of the country, generates large short-
distance transport demand. This demand centers around: (a) distribution of
imported agricultural inputs and other goods from Colombo port; (b) collection
and transportation to Colombo of tree crop production; (c) distribution of
goods from surplus areas; and (d) transportation of industrial goods. There
is also extensive passenger travel throughout the island. The short distance
of most transport as well as the rugged topography of the center of the island
make the island well-suited to road transport.
31.       Between 1972 and 1977 transport demand grew slowly.  Freight traffic
grew at only 3.6% while port and passenger traffic remained stagnant. However,
with the recent acceleration of development efforts and the liberalization of
economic controls, demand is expected to increase sharply. Road and rail
transport are currently operating at full capacity. Some of the infrastruc-
ture and most of the transport stock is run-down and in need of rehabilitation.
There is also significant scope for increasing operating efficiency throughout
the sector, especially in the road and road transport subsectors.
Transport System
32.       The transport system of Sri Lanka comprises about 25,000 miles
of road of all types, about 950 route-miles of railways; one main and two
minor ports, and seven airports of which one handles international traffic.
The inland transport services are provided by the Ceylon Government Railways,
the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board, and nine Regional Transport Boards,



- 10 -
which are public corporations having a monopoly for the operation of road
passenger services, and by a number of private road freight operators. Other
modes of transport--air, coastal shipping, and pipeline are relatively minor.
Road transport is the most important mode in the country; it carried 85% of
total passenger-miles and 79% of total freight ton-miles in 1977.
33.       Road transport is favored as compared to rail transport because:
(a) most traffic hauls are short; (b) the heavy gradients and sharp curves
on rail result in low operating speeds; (c) nearly every section of the rail-
way is paralleled by a road and, despite present poor conditions, road trans-
port is generally quicker; and (d) the absence of any large volume of bulky,
easily loadable traffic makes overheads per ton-mile higher by rail.
34.       The freight transport industry is unregulated and consists mainly
of small private operators. Because of severe import restrictions in the
past, the present trucks are on average very old. However, trucks can now be
imported freely and truck imports are increasing substantially as a result.
35.       The Ceylon Transport Board (CTB) was established in 1958 as a public
corporation for road passenger services. It was reorganized in June 1978 into
the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board (SLCTB) along with nine Regional Trans-
port Boards (RTB). The SLCTB has control over procurement, production of bus
components, bus assembly, the fare structure and operational matters affecting
more than two RTBs.  The RTBs are responsible for the day-to-day operation of
bus services. The SLCTB and RTBs are responsible to the Ministry of Transport.
The RTBs have a fleet of about 7,300 buses as of August 1978, of which over
one-third are more than ten years old. In general, operation is efficient.
In 1977, about 1.5 billion passengers were carried for 9.5 billion passenger-
miles. Passenger-miles increased by over 9% annually during 1963-1973.
However, in 1974, following the rise in the price of fuel, a five-day work
week was adopted and bus fares were raised substantially. As a result,
passenger-miles dropped substantially. Since then, passenger-miles in total
have been increasing at about 6% per annum. The CTB had an operating surplus
in 1963, but its financial situation deteriorated in later years, and in 1970
revenues were not adequate to cover working expenses. The small fare sur-
charge in 1971 and a substantial fare increase, effective February 1974,
resulted in an improvement. In 1974 and 1975, there was a small operating
surplus. Since 1976, the CTB has been around break-even position. Following
a 12% fare increase in July 1978, there is expected to be a small surplus for
that year, which will not continue unless fares are again raised or operating
expenses reduced. The Government is currently preparing a road transport
project to assist SLCTB to improve its operations and financial position.
36.       The railways are operated by Ceylon Government Railways as a govern-
ment department within the Ministry of Transport. The system comprises 866
miles of broad gauge and 87 miles of narrow gauge lines. The condition of
the infrastructure is generally reasonable, although there is a substantial
backlog of track renewals. The railway is mostly diesel-powered but the
availability of locomotives has been poor, due particularly to the lack of



- 11 -
spare parts. The rolling stock is old and availability is low. The main
workshops at Ratmalana suffer from low productivity due mainly to inadequate
change-over from steam to diesel locomotive repairs, poor processing of work,
and deficient material supply. Railway traffic in 1977 amounted to 66 million
passengers and 1.8 million tons of freight. Total annual rail freight traffic
has virtually stagnated and is declining in terms of ton-miles. Passenger
traffic has been stagnant, particularly since 1974. More than one-third of
the passenger-miles are accounted for by season ticket traffic, mostly within
the Colombo area. The railways probably have a significant role to play in
the Colombo area for passengers and transport of limited bulk commodities.
The Government is currently reviewing the situation with technical assistance
from the Canadian International Development Agency.
37.       There are three ports for deep sea vessels:  Colombo (on the south-
west coast) which handles more than 90% of total tonnage, Galle (about 75 miles
south of Colombo), and Trincomalee (on the northeast coast) which handle the
balance. All the ports are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Shipping
through the Colombo Port Commission, while all cargo handling is dealt with by
the Port (Cargo) Corporation. Port traffic was 2.4 million tons in 1976, but
increased to 3 million tons in 1977 due mainly to increased imports. The
indications of the first few months of 1978 are that the tonnage is continu-
ing to rise due to a higher level of economic activity. There is still ample
port capacity and more traffic could be handled if necessary. However, there
is a need to improve port infrastructure and the Japanese Government is now
undertaking a study for the rehabilitation and improvement of the three ports.
38.       The state-owned Ceylon Shipping Corporation was set up in 1971 with
only one freighter (14,600 DWT). It now has eight cargo vessels with a total
dead weight tonnage of about 116,000. The Corporation's major route is between
Sri Lanka and the UK and other European Countries. In 1977, the Corporation
carried 47% of the total export cargo, 77% of import cargo from the UK and
nearly 33% from other European countries. The Government established the
Central Freight Bureau in 1973 to (a) allocate all export freight space on
ocean-going vessels, (b) ensure economic loads, (c) rationalize the sailing
schedule of vessels, and (d) obtain favorable freight rates for export car-
goes. Due to the streamlining of export cargo handling in this manner, the
Government estimates that significant foreign exchange savings have been
achieved.
Transport Policy and Planning
39.       Road planning and construction are the responsibility of the
Department of Highways in the Ministry of Power and Highways. The Ministry
of Transport is responsible for the railways and road transport, the Ministry
of Trade and Shipping for ports and shipping, and the Ministry of Defense
for civil aviation. The Ministry of Finance and Planning could coordinate
transport investments and policy, but it does not have the staff for this
purpose.



- 12 -
40.       Planning has, in practice, meant putting together the programs and
proposals of different agencies with only limited coordination. Consideration
of alternatives and economic analyses are rare. In particular, the problem
of road-rail alternatives and definition of the future role of the railways
have to be tackled. There has also been a tendency to spread limited funds
thinly over various modes and various works in a particular mode of trans-
port. It is desirable that the Government determines a strategy and selects
investment priorities to stem further deterioration in the transport capacity
and to provide sufficient transport capacity to meet increased transport
demand arising from economic development.
41.       The Government regulates passenger fares of both rail and bus
services. Tariff changes for both railway and bus operations require minis-
terial approval. In the case of freight, while road tariffs are unregulated,
rail tariffs are regulated by the Government. As a result of a reluctance
to adopt tariff policies which reflect costs, the Government has subsidized
the operating losses of railways (passengers and freight) and buses
(passengers). The Government's present policy is to reduce these subsidies.
42.       The Government's current economic objectives are incorporated in
the Public Sector Investment Program, 1979-83. The Program aims to expand
employment, achieve a high rate of economic growth, and improve the balance-
of-payments by increasing exports. Of the total public investment in the
Program, 15% is allocated to transportation, and about half of this is for
road and road transport investments. In view of the insufficient investment
in the transport sector during the past 10 years, the allocation to the road
subsector can be considered modest. The project would be an initial step to
improve the road subsector performance.
The Road Subsector
43.       Compared to the countries in South Asia, Sri Lanka has a relatively
extensive and well-developed road network. The system maintained by the
Department of Highways (DOH) totals up to 15,479 miles, of which 11,200 miles
are paved. In addition, there are about 10,000 miles of tea estate and irri-
gation roads, which are maintained by tea estates and the Department of Irri-
gation. The entire network is suffering from lack of maintenance. Many
sections require extensive rehabilitation. Many bridges are old and in urgent
need of repair or replacement. The motor vehicle fleet at the end of July
1978 totalled about 218,000, of which 46% were cars and taxis. The present
vehicle fleet (equivalent to an average of one vehicle for 66 persons) is on
average very old, with 50% of trucks over 15 years old. The import of trucks
for private operators was almost nil for several years but, after the recent
liberalization of imports, truck imports have been increasing at a rapid rate.
There are no motor vehicle manufacturers in Sri Lanka, but several private
industries assemble motor vehicles and the SLCTB assembles buses.
44.       Sporadic counts carried out since 1961 indicate that average vehi-
cular traffic growth was practically zero up to 1975 when counts were last
taken, probably due to strict import controls on vehicles. With liberaliza-
tion of imports, a projected GDP growth rate of about 5% per annum in real



- 13 -
terms can be expected to produce average annual vehicular traffic growth rates
of 7 to 8%. Even this quite modest rate of growth will soon lead to a notice-
able deterioration in road travel standards.
45.       Until June 1978, DOH was under the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and
Highways where it acted as an administrative and planning body. The actual
execution of work relating to roads was carried out by other departments with-
in the same Ministry which also dealt with irrigation and power projects.
These were: (a) The State Development and Construction Corporation (SDCC)
for bridge construction; (b) The Department of Machinery and Equipment (DME)
which operated the central and a number of regional workshops and purchased,
allocated, operated, and maintained all vehicles, plant, and equipment, for
the Ministry; and (c) The Territorial Civil Engineering Organization which,
through a number of regional chief engineers, maintained the highway system
and built minor bridges.
46.       Under the reorganization in 1978, DOH was placed under the Ministry
of Power and Highways. The Territorial Civil Engineering Organization was
divided between the DOH and the Department of Irrigation under a new Ministry
of Lands and Land Development. The DME was also divided with eight regional
and one central workshop with their existing staffs temporarily assigned to
DOH. Present plans are that the SDCC would go to the Ministry of Lands and
Land Development and would concentrate on irrigation works. These reorgani-
zations have changed the role of DOH; together with planning responsibility,
DOH will also serve as an executing agency. Given this totally new role, the
DOH will require substantial technical assistance, and its workload can only
be increased gradually.
47.       The DOH suffers from a continuing drain of professional staff to
other countries. With the help of technical assistance to be provided under
the credit, the Government should prepare a timetable for strengthening DOH
staff through training, systematic rotation of experienced staff, and in-house
training of foremen. The Government would review staffing of the DOH, furnish
a specific program by December 31, 1979, including a timetable, for its
strengthening, and carry out the program, as mutually agreed with IDA [Sections
3.07(a) and 3.07(b) of the Development Credit Agreement (DCA)].
48.       The DOH has no formal arrangements for staff training.  There is
a need to strengthen training activities. A training specialist, to be
financed under the credit, would assist DOH in identifying and implementing
needed training programs.
49.       In the absence of detailed traffic data and vehicle operating costs,
project appraisal in DOH cannot be considered rigorous. There is no firm long-
term highway development plan, and most projects originate from an expression
of need or desire from the public, usually channelled through Ministers or
Members of Parliament. There is a need for strengthening road planning and
preparing a medium-term road investment program. The technical assistance team
will assist in these areas. The Government would prepare and furnish to IDA



- 14 -
for comments, a five-year road investment program by December 31, 1982 (Section
3.10 of the DCA).
50.       Past expenditures on road maintenance have not kept pace with
requirements. At present, annual maintenance allocations are about Rs 5,500
or US$360 equivalent per annum per mile of road maintained by DOH. In addi-
tion, funds for the maintenance of minor roads are provided through the
Government's decentralized budget, which is distributed by District Ministers.
The current allocation for routine maintenance (minor repairs, grass-cutting,
drain clearing, etc.) and periodic maintenance (resealing, resurfacing, etc.)
is barely sufficient to cover the costs of proper routine maintenance alone.
To ensure proper road maintenance, both routine and periodic, the Government
should aim to double the present allocation per mile. The DOH, with the
help of a technical assistance team, should prepare a suitable highway main-
tenance improvement program for five years starting from 1981. The Govern-
ment would prepare a five-year road maintenance program (1981-85), submit it
to IDA by June 30, 1980, and provide necessary funds to carry out the program
(Section 3.09 of the DCA).
51.       With poor alignment, narrow widths, and inadequate pavement thick-
ness, roads are generally indequate for modern traffic flows. The average
main road pavement is about 6 inches thick, consisting of a compacted stone
layer with bituminous surface treatment. An extra 4 to 6 inches of compacted
stone base would provide enough pavement strength for another ten or more years
of life. Roadside drainage is generally incomplete or entirely absent and
encroachment up to the edge of the pavement is common. Bridges are often
narrow and some are structurally unsound. Piles, abutments and foundations
are often sound, but cannot be reused because they are too narrow or on bad
alignments. On many bridges, piled foundations and open abutments would pro-
vide a more economical design. These matters will be followed up during
supervision missions and through technical assistance provided in the project.
52.       Sri Lanka is fortunate in having an abundance of good road-building
materials in granite outcrops (except in the extreme north around Jaffna), and
the natural soils are reasonably strong and stable. Traditionally, broken
stone for roadbase has been produced by hand, which is satisfactory for larger
sizes, but very slow and expensive for smaller size stone. Hence, mobile
granulators are required to supplement hand labor. Suitable equipment for
stone production would be provided in the project.
53.       Present methods of road repair are unsatisfactory, due to using
straight bitumen under unsuitable conditions. Bituminous emulsion, produced
locally, will be used in order to improve output and standard of work.
54.       The private construction industry in Sri Lanka has been moribund for
the last decade, and its present abilities are uncertain. However, its revival
would be beneficial, a fact which the Government recognizes. Contractors are
interested in possible highway projects, but their output and work standards
will be uncertain at the start. A practical method of encouraging domestic



- 15 -
contractors would be to encourage associations with overseas firms as a means
of introducing expertise and new equipment. The DOH is circulating notices
inviting contractors to prequalify, and the response to this invitation should
be known by mid-1979. IDA has started discussions with the Government propos-
ing a study with a view to developing the construction industry in the country.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
55.       The project was identified in December 1977 by the Government of Sri
Lanka with IDA assistance. It was appraised in October 1978 with the help of
two engineers financed by the Canadian International Development Agency. A
staff appraisal report entitled "Road Maintenance Project" (No. 2334-CE dated
March 30, 1979) is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
A timetable of key events relating to the project and special conditions of
the Credit are given in Annex III. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C.,
in March 1979. The Borrower's delegation was led by Dr. W. M. Tilakaratna,
Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning.
Project Objectives
56.       The proposed project aims to facilitate the transport of goods and
passengers and to reduce road transport costs. As an initial step, the pro-
ject is designed to: (a) arrest the deterioration of the road system by a pro-
gram of enhanced routine and periodic maintenance, utilizing limited mechanical
assistance with better quality control to give technically improved results;
and (b) lay the foundation for improved planning of road maintenance and exe-
cution of future works. The project would also address directly the present
deficiencies in Sri Lanka's road maintenance capability, i.e., lack of a road
maintenance program and a road investment plan and inadequate DOH staff and
staff training. At the completion of the project, apart from road and bridge
rehabilitation works completed, one demonstration district will have been
organized and equipped to carry out road maintenance more efficiently,
improved road maintenance methods will have been introduced island wide, and
DOH will have an increased capability to plan and design roads.
Project Description
57.       The project consists of:  (a) rehabilitation and limited improvement
over about 112 miles of roads and resealing or resurfacing of about an addi-
tional 150 miles; (b) improvement of routine and periodic road maintenance
methods; (c) strengthening, repair or replacement of 30 bridges; (d) procure-
ment of road maintenance and workshop equipment and spares; and (e) technical
assistance.  The road sections and bridges were selected on criteria of
urgency of rehabilitation, prevention of complete failure, and highest
economic returns.
58.       Road Rehabilitation.  Road rehabilitation is planned over 112 miles
of main routes in seven locations spread over the island. The work comprises



- 16 -
selective widening or realignment over short distances (except in one case
where general relocation is to be investigated), provision of extra stone base
with new surfacing, general improvement of shoulders and roadside drainage,
and repair of failed areas and single bituminous seal. The road rehabilita-
tion component will be carried out partly by the DOH and partly by contractors.
59.       Road Maintenance.  It would not be possible to reorganize completely
routine maintenance countrywide within the period of the project, but the capa-
bility of DOH to repair potholes and local pavement failures can be signifi-
cantly improved. Enough equipment will be provided so that all 74 executive
engineers' divisions and suboffices can be equipped with mobile hand sprayers
and tampers before project completion, and staff will be trained in their
use. To improve periodic maintenance practice, a demonstration district
would be organized and equipped in Colombo/Kalutara to carry out resealing
and resurfacing. The demonstration district would train DOR staff for other
districts.
60.       Maintenance and Workshop Equipment.  Operations of DOH are restricted
due to the fact that the vehicle and equipment fleet for road maintenance and
the workshop equipment are old and in constant need of repair. At present,
workshops and depots operated by DOH are congested by many obsolete vehicles
and plant items beyond repair. The presence of these obsolete items hinders
work and restricts the covered space in workshops. All unserviceable equip-
ment and vehicles beyond economic repair would be disposed of by the Govern-
ment by December 31, 1980 (Section 3.08 of the DCA). Apart from equipment for
routine highway maintenance, the project will equip the proposed demonstration
district with enough vehicles and equipment to carry out routine and periodic
maintenance. The district will then train staff from other parts of the coun-
try in improved work methods of periodic maintenance. This will also release
the present highway plant and equipment and vehicles for use in other districts.
Neither Colombo nor Kalutara District has a regional workshop at present, and
thus it is proposed to equip a workshop on a site to be provided by the Gov-
ernment and to train its staff. There is also a need to establish a central
workshop for DOH. At present, there is a suitable building at Angulana near
Colombo with no equipment or spares, staff, or control organization. As an
initial step, the project will provide equipment, a stock of spares, and will
train staff under the technical assistance component.
61.       Bridge Rehabilitation and Replacement.  Thirty bridges have been
identified where there is danger of structural failure. These will be
repaired or replaced, mostly using precast, prestressed units, as produced
by SDCC. For many of the structures, DOH standard designs can be used;
otherwise, design modification can be done in the DOH Bridge Design Section,
with the help of technical assistance.
62.       Technical Assistance.  The weaknesses in DOH and its executive arms
described above make a substantial amount of technical assistance necessary
if the project is to be successfully implemented. A total of 182 man-months



- 17 -
at a total cost of US$1.15 million is proposed, at an estimated average cost
of US$6,300 per man-month, including all allowances and external travel.
The team consists of a highway planning engineer, a highway and bridge design
engineer, a mechanical engineer, a highway maintenance engineer (training
specialist), a contracts engineer, a management and accounting specialist, and
a mechanical superintendent. The team is designed to help DOH's transition
from a planning and administrative body to a planning and executing agency by
a program of direct assistance and training. Of the 182 man-months proposed,
it is intended to provide about 20 man-months at a cost of about US$140,000
to be retroactively financed for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1979.
The work to be completed under this arrangement consists of preparation of
contract documents and specifications for construction works and equipment
procurement, assistance with prequalification of contractors, and the intro-
duction of improved design methods for roads and bridges. The Government
would finalize general conditions of contract and specifications for civil
works on construction and rehabilitation by December 31, 1979 (Section 3.11
of the DCA). The process of the selection of consultants has started. As
a condition of effectiveness, the Government would retain the services of a
technical assistance team, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
for the successful implementation of the project (Section 5.01 of the DCA).
Project Cost and Financing
63.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$25.0 million
equivalent (excluding taxes and duties of US$3.75 million equivalent), with
a foreign exchange cost of US$13.41 million equivalent (54%). The proposed
Credit of US$16.5 million would finance the full foreign exchange costs and
about 27% of local costs, or about 66% of total project costs, net of taxes
and duties. The remaining local costs, amounting to about US$8.5 million
equivalent (plus taxes and duties) would be met by the Government.
64.       A physical contingency of 5% has been allowed on equipment with
spares and 10% on all other items. Price contingencies have been estimated
assuming an annual inflation rate of 6% for foreign costs, and 15% for local
costs in 1979, followed by 10% thereafter. Estimates for plant and equipment
are based on mid-1978 bid prices received, updated to March 1979. Unit prices
for works are based on DOH schedules of rates and analysis of items revised,
where appropriate, after comparison with other cost data and to allow for
higher wage rates, which will become necessary in many areas.
Organization and Implementation
65.       The execution of the project will be the responsibility of DOH,
assisted by a technical assistance team, operating through (a) district chief
engineers for force account road and bridge rehabilitation and general super-
vision of contract works; (b) SDCC for some bridge reconstruction; (c) DME
initially for equipment administration and repair until DOH has equipped and
set up its own organization; and (d) contractors for part of the road and
bridge rehabilitation. About 30% of road and bridge works is proposed to be
carried out through force account. As far as the domestic construction industry
is concerned, private contractors have been mostly inactive and many of them



- 18 -
went out of business during the last decade. About half a dozen large firms
and a number of smaller ones still survive with greatly depreciated equipment
stock. IDA intends to assist the Government in the development of the
domestic construction industry. Invitations for prequalification are being
circulated by DOH, but if there is not sufficient response from contracting
firms experienced in road construction, force account by DOH will have to be
used for the part of the road rehabilitation now proposed for contract. The
physical execution of the project is planned to commence in the last quarter
of 1979 and be completed in four years.
66.       Institution building is of primary importance to the project.  It
is planned within the project to create a capability for DOH to:
(a) monitor the economic and engineering aspects of
the project;
(b) plan and design road.and bridge rehabilitation and
improvement effectively and efficiently;
(c) establish, maintain and operate its own mechanical
equipment and spares organization;
(d) plan and operate road maintenance according to the
needs of traffic and the road; and
(e) improve costing and cost control procedures as an aid
to forecast expenditures more accurately.
67.       The assumptions used in pavement design, cost estimates, and in the
economic analysis will be monitored and confirmed with the help of technical
assistance. In particular, future traffic counts will be used to continually
reconfirm the economic analysis results, additional subgrade testing will be
carried out to reconfirm the depth of extra base or overlay required, and
updated local costs will be used to refine estimates of project costs. As
there has been very little useful road construction experience in Sri Lanka
over the past ten years, especially in regard to contract work, it is to
be expected that bids will be subject to wide variations in price.
68.       The project would be monitored through quarterly reports by the DOH.
The format of these reports was agreed between the Project Executing Agency
and IDA.  The Government would prepare a completion report not later than six
months after the closing date of the Credit (Section 3.04 (c) of the DCA).
Procurement and Disbursement
69.       Equipment, materials, and supplies will be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures with a 15% preference allowed
on locally manufactured items in accordance with IDA's "Guidelines for Procure-
ment." Items costing under US$50,000 equivalent and with a total not exceed-
ing US$200,000 would be procured in accordance with the Government's normal



- 19 -
procedures after bids have been received from at least three suppliers. Con-
tracts for construction or rehabilitation work will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures with a 7-1/2% preference
allowed to local contractors in accordance with IDA's guidelines. However,
contracts for civil works costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each may be
awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with proce-
dures acceptable to IDA.
70.       Disbursements from the proceeds of the Credit account will be made
on the following basis: (a) 100% of foreign expenditure or 50% of local expen-
diture for equipment, tools, spares, and supplies and construction materials;
(b) 100% of expenditure for technical assistance; and (c) 100% of foreign
expenditure or 75% of total expenditure for civil works done by contractors.
Expenditures on the preliminary technical assistance are to be retroactively
financed by IDA for expenditures incurred after March 1, 1979, and would amount
to a maximum of US$140,000. Requests for disbursements will be fully docu-
mented. It is expected that disbursements would be completed by June 30,
1984.
Project Benefits and Risks
71.       In the past, the network has steadily deteriorated due to insuffi-
cient allocations for maintenance and improvements and has now reached a stage
at which many sections of road require rehabilitation and improvement, and
maintenance work requires improvement. Further deterioration of roads would
result in serious transport constraints. The proposed project will stop and
reverse the deterioration of the road network, and improve the quality of
maintenance work.
72.       Since the trucking industry is important for distributing industrial
raw materials, collecting tree crops for export, and transporting imported food
grains, benefits from the project execution would be shared by the general
public. It is a characteristic of the population in Sri Lanka that all classes
are highly mobile and that the dominant mode of passenger transport is by road.
The Government recognizes this fact and has endeavored to keep bus fares down
to a level that can be afforded by most of the population. Buses typically
make up about 25% of the total traffic flow, and, to that extent, benefits in
the form of reduced vehicle operating costs will accrue to the RTBs and hence
to the population in general. The emphasis in the road and bridge rehabilita-
tion program is on rural (rather than urban) routes. These have been selected
from all parts of the island to reach as large a proportion of the population
as possible.
73.       Overall economic evaluation incorporating costs of workshop equip-
ment and technical assistance components to which no specific benefits have
been ascribed shows implementation of the project as a whole is well justified
and appropriately timed. The overall project rate of return is estimated at
36%. A sensitivity analysis was carried out assuming an increase of 15% in
project costs and a decrease of 25% in benefits. The results show that, even
under these conservative assumptions, the project would still yield an economic
return of 21%.



- 20 -
74.       There are no serious technical risks associated with the project.
The principal risks arise out of the weaknesses in the organization and ope-
rational capability of the DOH. Technical assistance has been planned to
strengthen the DOH (para 62) and remove these risks as far as possible. To
improve the situation, the Government would review staffing within DOH, prepare
and furnish a program to IDA by December 31, 1979, and implement agreed recom-
mendations to strengthen the DOH (para 47). The project also includes a pilot
scheme for road maintenance in order to train DOH staff (para 60). These
measures would be adequate to cover DOH weaknesses and consequent risks of
the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka and the Association and the Recommendation
of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of
Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
76.       Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III. An additional condition of credit effectiveness would be the retention
of the services of a technical assistance team of at least five consultants
by the Government under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 62).
77.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
78.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by: I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
April 18, 1979



- 21-                                                Annex I
Page 1 of 6 pages
TABLE 3A
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LANKA                                                 /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. E14.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              65.6                                                     SAME        SAME      NEXT SICGER
ACRICULTURAL       24.2                                 MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  L     1970 Lb ESTIMATE Lb       REGION 14   GROUP 1d    GROUP le
CNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    70.0        120.0     200.0            167.4       182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)      107.0        153.0      127.0             65.7       88.9        251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          9.9         12.5       14.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 17.9          22.0       25.2             12.8        15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       151.0        191.0      213.0             85.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    507.0         518.0      579.0            322.6      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGQ STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          41.5 /f      40.0       39.0             44.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.3 /f      56.0       57.0             52.9       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    4.2          4.0        4.1              2.9         2.9          3.0
POPULATION GRUWTN RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.6         2.4        1.7              2.2         2.4         2.7
URBAN                                4.8         4.5        3.7              4.2         4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RUTE (PER THOUSAND)       37.6        33.1       27.4             45.1        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RAlTE (PER THOUSAND)      10.7         8.0        7.9             17.3        19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                2.5         2.3        2.0              3.2         2.9         3.2
FAMILY PLANNIIIG
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..        55.3      113.0
USERS (PERCINT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..           8.0        9.9             13.7        14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA i1970-100)              86.6        100.0      109.1             95.6       96.4         104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    92.0        101.0       97.0             91.1       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            45.0        50.0       48.0             49.6        50.0        56.8
OF WHICH JNIMAL AND PULSE         15.0        16.0       15.0             12.6        13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE         ..           ..      16.8               ..          ..          7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARN)    60.5          65.8       67.8             43.1        45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                             52.0        50.0       51.0             99.5       102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 *.        21.0       19.0             30.0        26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..         46.0       36.0             66.3       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                 ..        14.0       13.0             17.2        14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION'
TOTAL                                 ..        64.0       59.0             15.7        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                 ..        76.0       68.0             66.9       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                 ..        61.0       55.0              2.5         3.4        25.4
POPULATION PEE PHYSICIAN            4500.0           ..    4010.0           8830.8    13432.7       9559.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON      4170.0       2730.0    2280.0            8479.3     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PEE HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                             330.0        330.0      330.0           1624.5     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..        130.0      140.0               ..       183.3       278.4
RURAL                                 ..       570.0      600.0               ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        54.0       51.3               ..        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                5.4 /f      5.8         ..               .         5.2
URBAN                                6.3 /f      6.3         ..               .         4.8
RURAL                                5.2 Tf      5.5         ..               ..        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBEE OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                2.0 /f      2.5         ..
URBAN                               2.1 If       2.7         ..               *-         1.8         2.3
RURAL                                2.0 /f      2.5         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                7.5 If      9.0         ..               ..       25.9         28.3
URBAN                              35.9 If      34.5
RURAL                                2.3 7T      2.8                                    8.;         10.3



- 22 -                                              Annex I
TBU 3A                                       Page  2 of  6 pages
SRI LANKA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
SRI LANK                                                /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT NICGER
MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 b      1970 b ESTIATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP 
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 95.0        99.0       77.0            59.1        62.9        75.8
FEKALE               90.0         94.0      77.0             38.4       45.9         67.9
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 27.0        51.0      54.0             19.9        14.4        17.7
FEMALE               16.0         51.0      55.0              9.9        8.8         12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..          1.0        1.0             1.5         6.6          7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0          ..       22.0            38.2        38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                            ..          ..         ..            23.5        19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        61.0        77.6       78.1            35.6        36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          8.0         7.0        6.7             2.2         3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         36.0          ..       37.0            14.9        31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..          ..         ..              ..         2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                  36.0        49.0         ..              6.4        6.0         16.3
CINENA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  3.0            ..       3.9              ..         1.4          1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      3500.0 A   4100.0    4707.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   22.6        23.7       28.5            21.3        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              56.3        52.0       55.0            62.8        60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 13.5        14.4
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                34.3        33.5       34.6            35.8        39.8        37.8
MALE                                 50.8        49.2       48.2            52.4        53.3         50.3
FEMALE                               16.2         16.5      20.3             15.6       19.6         20.9
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.5          1.4       1.2              1.3        1.3          1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   26.4         18.8       18.6            18.6        20.3         19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  52.1         45.6       42.8            42.8        45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    4.5          7.4        7.3              7.3        5.7          5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.7         17.9       19.3            19.3        16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      68.0            80.2        88.5        155.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      76.0            67.2        71.9         97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..               ..      100.8        143.7
RIJRAL                               ..           ..      59.0            39.8        42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..      26.0            50.3        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      22.0            44.6        48.0         36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    South Asia;  /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976);  /e  Lower Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);   If  1963.
September, 1978



-23-                                                              Annex I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                         Page   3   of   6   pages
&oig:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are popalation-weighted geometric means, excluding the extremo values of the indicatur and tho mcst
populated country in each grsp.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform   Due to lack of data,
graup averages for Capital Surplos Oil Emporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of emtreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ki)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, arba.  and rural - Pcpularicn (t-tal,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                           urb-n, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialiced hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers   Hospitals are establishnents permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishsents providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (DS)S   - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistanr, nu--se, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodatisn and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admisaioos to or discharges
ENERiY CONSUlSPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of coenercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and gSo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals wlo share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their main meals.   A boarder or lodger may cc may nor be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1961, 1970, and 1977 data                               the household for statistical purposes.  Statistccal definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average  n-
of data among countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude nun-pereanent structures and
Per  sq. km. - Mid-yser population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                     aunoccpied parts
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agrico. tore land - Computed as above for agricultural land                     Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only                                                                                       of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age stru- tare (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-h4 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Pepulation growth r,,te (percent) -  total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and f-le enroillent of all agen
growth rates of tc'tai and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                         at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for cou ntries with universal edu-
mid-year populatio,n; tem-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                      cation enrollment may emceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-yeac  average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       above the official school age.
Crude death rate (p r thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and fesale - Computed as above; necondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year ave-age ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training int-ructicns for pupils
iross reproduction cats - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond once coa ss are generally
in her normal ospioductive period if she experiences present age-                          encluded.
spocific fertilirt  rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vcctional institstion    n-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            dude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                           o- as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birtl-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Tota] studonts en-olled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning -_ucers (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels .
m arried women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devices to  all macried women in same age group.                                           a percentage of total adult population aged 15 y-ors and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                        CONSUMPTION
loden of food production per caPita (1970-100) - Index number of par                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger earn comprise  totor cars
capita annual production of all fond commodities.                                        seating less than eight persona; excludec anbutances, hearnen and military
Per capita n"oply of calories (percent of recuirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of roceivors fur radic
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports le.a                 broadcasts to general public per thousnud of population; encludes unlicensed
enports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration uf radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and looses in distribution.  Re-                    effect; dart  for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO bused on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                    TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sen distributions of popolation, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
coot far waste an household level,                                                         tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grsms per dav) - Protein content of per                     Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shaws the average circuli-
capita net supply of foad per day.  Net supply of food in defined as                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                     cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimu= allowance of 60 gra.s of total protein per day and 20 grams                      be "daily" if it appears at leant four tines a week.
Of aninal and  pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema ansual attendance per capita pee pear - fated on tho nuhbor of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                        units.
FAO in the Third World FPod Survey.
Per capira prorain su.ply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food                 EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in graes per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (pee  thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                   forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, studennt, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, no children in this age group.                                 tions  in various countries are not homparable.
Penale (percent) - Female labor force as percentage cf total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                     Agriculture  (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life espectrncy at birth  (years) - Average nueber of years of life                          as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Industrv (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                  electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                     Participation rate  (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, main, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  female labor Force as perceeCages of their respecrive poputaticns.
Accos- to  safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ILO's adjueted participation raten reflecting age-nec
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       stincture of the population, end long tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                    Econo=ic dependency ratio - Ratiu of populatioe under 15 sod 65 and oven to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of thetr respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located nut more                      INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                     Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                      percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or menbers of the household do not have to                        of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                           POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to encrara disposal (percent of population) - total, urban,  and                   Estimated absnlute poverty income level (..t          pee  capita) -  urban and rural -
rural - Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excreta                         Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a minimal
disposal as percentages of their respective populatioas.  Encreta                          nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
dispocal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                          affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                      Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level lens  than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by number of prac-ticig                         per capita personal income of the coUntry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                         Estimated population below  overty tncome level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursinR  PePopulatiopulation divided by number of                              Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, prectical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nursos.
Economic and So-ial Data Division
Ecoonoic Analysis and Projections Department



-24-                                   Annex I
Page 4 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
E C o N o M I C    D E V E L O P M E N T    D A T A    S H E E T S
A C T U A L                       EST.
1965       1970        1976        1977        1978
_   --      ---  --__-- ___         -   _----  
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILLIONS OF USS AT   1975  PRICES)
GROSS DOME,TIC PRODUCT                1783.0      2354.0      2747.3      2811.4      2983.8
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE               539.7      242.2       185.1       495.1       424.8
GROSS DOME.TIC INCOME                 2322.7      2596.2      2932.4      3306.5      3408.6
IMPORTS                               1189.8      1017.3       913.5      1098.6      1363.7
EXPORTS - VOLUME                      -670.2      -662.9      -660.5      -722.9      -790.1
EXPORTS - TT. ADJUSTED               -1209.9      -905.1      -845.6    -1218.0    -1214.9
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADUUSTED            -20.1       112.1        67.9      -119.4       148.9
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                     2055.9      2239.0      2563.6      2719.1      2900.9
INVESTMENT                             246.8       469.4       436.8       468.0       656.5
NATIONAL S,VINGS                      244.3       297.9       350.7       580.8       519.7
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                       266.9       357.3       368.9       587.4       507.6
GDP AT CURRENT USS                    1686.6      1870.6      2424.2      2821.3      2515.2
SECTOR OUTPUT
(SHARE OF IDP AT   1975  PRICES)
AGRICULTURE                            0.444       0.422       o.376       0.387       0.387
INDUSTRY                               0.171       0.211       0.217       0.201       0.201
SERVICES                               0.385       0.367       0.407       0.412       0.412
PRICES (  i975  = 100)
EXPORT PRI:E INDEX                     65.65       56.86       95.16      114.45      117.17
IMPORT PRICE INDEX                     36.37       41.64       74.33       67.92       76.20
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                  180.52      136.55      128.02      168.49      153.77
GDP DEFLATJR (USS)                     94.59       79.47       80.24      100.35       84.30
ANNUAL AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATE            4.76        6.85       10.68       11.06
Growfh Rates           1 976
SHARE
1965               OF
1977              GOP
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS (1)
(MILLIONS OF US$ AT   1975  PRICES)
--------------------------_-------
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT                    3.9             100.0
GAINS FROM TERMS OF TRADE                                   6.7
GROSS DOMESTIC INCOME                     3.0            106.7
IMPORTS                                 -0.7              33.3
EXPORTS - VOLUME                         0.6              24.0
EXPORTS - IT. ADoUSTED                   0.1              30.8
RESOURCE GAP - TT. ADJUSTED                                2.5
TOTAL CONSUMPTION                         2.4             93.3
INVESTMENT                               5.5              15.9
NATIONAL SAVINGS                          7.5             12.8
DOMESTIC SAVINGS                         6.8              13.4
GDP AT CURFENT USS                       4.4
PRICES (  1975    100)
EXOR  PRI_ E INDEX                       4.7_ _
EXPORT PRICE INDEX                      457
IMPORT PRI(E INDEX                       5-3
TERMS OF TRADE INDEX                    -0.6
GDP DEFLATOR (US$)                        0.5
SELECTED INDICATORS                   1965-77
_-__- -- -- - -  _- - - - --  -_- -- -- -
ICOR                                    4.37
IMPORT ELASrICITY                      -0.18
AVERAGE NATIONAL SAVINGS RATE            0.11
MARGINAL NArIONAL SAVINGS RATE           0.33
IMPORTS/GDP                             0.45
INVESTMENT/GDP                          0.16
RESOURCE GAP/GOP                        0.04
(1) COMPONENTS MAY NOT ADD UP BECAUSE OF ROUNDING



-25-
Annex I
SRI LANKA                        Page 5 of 6 pages
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
1973        1974        1975         1976        1977        1978
A C T U A L                             E S T.
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
1.  EXPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)               424.3       570.4       628.2        628.5       827.3        925.7
2.  IMPORTS (INCLUDING NFS)               445.3       731.7        798.8       679.0       746.2       1039.2
3.  RESOURCE BALANCE                      -21.0      -161.3      -170.6        -50.5        81.1      -113.4
4.  NET FACTOR SERVICE INCOME             -17.3       -16.6        -18.4       -20.1       -15.0         -4.1
.1 NET INTEREST PAYMENTS                 -14.7       -14.7       -15.9        -18.6       -14.0        -3.1
OF WHICH ON PUB M&LT LOANS            -15.5       -16.5       -20.6        -23.1       -22.1       -22.8
.2 DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME               -2.7        -2.0        -2.4         -1.5        -1.1        -1.0
.3 WORKERS REMITTANCES (NET)                .0          .0           .0          .0           .0          .0
5.  CURRENT TRANSFERS (NET)                   .2         -.2         2.8         6.6         10.5        12.9
6.  BALANCE ON CURRENT ACCOUNT            -38.1      -178.1      -186.2        -64.0         76.6      -104.6
7.  PRIVATE DIRECT INVESTMENT                .5          1.3         -.2           .0         -.3          .0
8.  GRANTS & GRANT-LIKE FLOWS              13.0        42.0         77.0        58.0         60.8        57.9
PUBLIC M&LT LOiNS
9.  DISBURSEMEhTS                          83.8       146.3        157.4       210.4        150.1       264.0
10. AMORTIZATION                          -39.1       -52.4      -117.7       -103.8      -101.9        -72.1
11. NET DISBUR!,EMENTS                     44.7        93.8         39.7       106.7        48.2        191.9
OTHER M&LT LOANS
12. DISBURSEMENTS                            .0           .0          .0          .0           .0          .0
13. AMORTIZATII)N                            .0           .0          .0           .0          .0          .0
14. NET DISBUR.EMENTS                        .0           .0          .0           .0          .0          .0
15. USE OF IMF RESOURCES                   -1.4        33.3         27.9        11.1        46.9           .0
16. SHORT-TERM CAPITAL
TRANSACTIONS                           -9.8        13.2        -2.8       -22.6          6.5       -40.7
17. CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS NEI               28.2        62.3       -12.0        -31.8       -56.9       -10.4
18. CHANGE IN RiESERVES
(- = INCREASE)                       -37.1         56.8        56.6       -57.4      -183.0        -94.0
19. NET FOREIGN EXCHANGE   (1)
RESERVES (END OF PERIOD)             -11.0        -67.8      -124.4       -67.0        116.0       210.0
GRANT AND LOANS COMMITMENTS (US$ Million)
1.  OFFICIAL GRANTS                        21.1        37.0         76.0        53.1       104.3       123.7
2.  TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT LOANS                92.1       233.1        285.8       221.8       167.6       358.9
.1 IBRD                                     .0           .0          .0          .0           .0          .
.2 IDA                                     6.0        24.0        29.5           .0        41.2        25.5
.3 OTHER MULTILATERAL                      2.8         2.5        30.0          8.1        49.7       117.2
.4 GOVERNMENTS                            58.4        72.9       196.6        140.9        69.7       192.8
.5 OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED
ECONOMIES (2)                           2.6        21.4        56.1          4.2         1.7        10.0
.6 SUPPLIERS                              25.0       133.6        29.7         72.7         7.0        23.4
.7 FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                   .0          .0           .0          .0          .0           .0
.8 BONDS                                    .0          .0           .0          .0          .0          .
.9 PUBLIC LOANS NEI                         .0          .0           .0          .0          .0          .0
3.  OTHER M&LT LOANS (WHERE
AVAILABLE)                               .0          .0           .0          .0          .0          .0
MEMORANDUM ITEMS
1. GRANT ELEMENT OF TOTAL
COMMITMENTS                         45.000       27.100      55.700      39.800      64.400       64.138
2.  AVERAGE INtEREST RATE                  .037         .051        .029        .040        .021         .023
3.  AVERAGE MAlURITY (YEARS)             23.700    '13.600       28.800       20.500      35.400      30.511
-------------.----------------------
1/ NET FOREIGN ASSETS: USS EQUIVALENT OF LINE 31. IFS.
2/ INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES. PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA, NORTH
KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.
DATE OF LATEST UPDATE 03/28/79



-26-                            Annex I
Page 6 of 6 pages
SRI LANKA
D E I T    A N D    C R E D I T W O R T H I N E S S
---------______----------------------------------
1973       1974       1975       1976        1977       1978
A C T U A L                          E S T.
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM DEBT (DISBURSED ONLY)
-----------------------------------------
TOTAL DEBT OUTSTANDING (DOD
END OF PERIOD)                      484.8       587.3      598.0      702.3       787.0      977.8
INCLUDING UNDISBURSED                 680.1       875.7      997.0     1103.8      1217.9     1462.1
PUBLIC DEBT SERVICE                   -54.6       -68.9     -138.4     -126.8      -124.0      -94.9
INTEREST                            -15.5       -16.5      -20.6      -23.1       -22.1      -22.8
OTHER M&LT DEBT SERVICE                   .0         .0          .0         .0         .0          .0
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                     -54.6      -68.9     -138.4     -126.8      -124.0      -94.9
DEBT BURDEN
D    SV      RO..2211
DEBT SERVICE RATIO                      12.9       12.1       22.0        20.2       15.0       10.3
DEBT SERVICE RATIO (1)                  13.5       12.4       22.4        20.4       15.1       10.4
DEBT SERVICE/GOP                         2.7        2.7        5.2         5.2        4.4        3.8
PUB. DEBT SERVICE/GOV. REVENUE          15.7       10.0       19.0        20.0       23.5       14.7
TERMS
INT. ON TOTAL DOD/TOTAL DOD             3.2         2.8        3.4        3.3         2.8        2.3
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DOD            11.3       11.7       23.1        18.1       15.8        9.7
DEPENDENCY RATIOS FOR M&LT DEBT
______________________________
GROSS DISB./IMFORTS (INCL.NFS)          18.8       20.0       19.7        31.0       20.1       25.4
NET TRANSFER/IMPORTS(INCL.NFS)           6.6       10.6        2.4        12.3        3.5       16.3
NET TRANSFER/GROSS DISB.                34.9       52.9       12.1        39.7       17.4       64.0
EXPOSURE
IBRD DlSB./GROSS TOTAL DIS8.            6.5         3.4        3.6         1.6        1.3         .6
BANK GROUP DISB./GROSS TOTAL
DISBURSEMENTS                         12.4       10.9       12.2         4.0        8.7        5.6
IBRD DOD/TOTAL DOD                      6.6         5.8        6.1         5.1        4.4        3.3
BANK GROUP DOD/TOTAL DOD                 9.5       10.0       12.5        11.3       11.3       10.2
IBRD DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL DEBT
SERVICE                               8.0         7.4        4.0         4.7        4.9        6.1
BANK GROUP DEBT SERVICE/TOTAL
DEBT SERVICE                           0.1        7.5        4.2         1.0        5.2        6.5
OUTSTANDING DEC. 31, 1977
_______________________
EXTERNAL DEBT (iJISBURSED ONLY)                             AMOUNT    PERCENT
IBRD                                                          34.3        4.4
BANK GROUP                                                    89.0        11.3
OTHER MULTILATEtRAL                                           43.8         5.6
GOVERNMENTS                                                  574.9        73.0
OF WHICH CENTRALLY PLANNED ECONOMIES (2)                    52.8         6.7
SUPPLIERS                                                     79.2        10.1
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS                                          .1          .0
BONDS                                                           .0          .0
PUBLIC DEBT NEI                                                 .0          .0
TOTAL PUBLIC M&LT DEBT                                       787.0       100.0
OTHER PUBLIC MWIT DEBT                                           .0         .0
OTHER M&LT DEBT                                                  .0         .0
TOTAL PUBLIC DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                   1217.9       154.8
TOTAL M & LT DEBT (INCLUDING UNDISBURSED)                   1217.9       154.8
DEBT PROFILE
____________
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE 1978-82/TOTAL DOD END OF 1977              63.1
------------- -----------------------------------------
1/INCLUDING NET DIRECT INVESTMENT INCOME
2/INCLUDES CMEA COUNTRIES, PEOPLES REPUBLIC OF CHINA,
NORTH KOREA, NORTH VIETNAM.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SRI LANKA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of February 28, 1979)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                      Amount (net of
Credit                                                       cancellations)
No.   Year   Borrower             Purpose             Bank    IDA  Undisbursed
Seven loans and five credits fully disbursed             58.9   36.0
653     1970   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development I        14.5             2.4
372     1973   Sri Lanka         Power Transmission              6.0      0.2
504     1974   Sri Lanka         Dairy Development               9.0      7.6
566     1975   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial III            4.5      0.9
595     1975   Sri Lanka         Agricultural Devel-
opment                       25.0     7.1
666     1976   Sri Lanka         Tank Irrigation                 5.0      4.6
701     1977   Sri Lanka         Mahaweli Ganga
Development II               19.0    19.0
709     1977   Sri Lanka         Water Supply                    9.2      9.0
742     1977   Sri Lanka         DFC - Industrial IV             8.0      6.6
818     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Reha-
bilitation (Tea)             21.0    21.0
819     1978   Sri Lanka         Tree Crop Diver-
sification (Tea)             4.5      4.5
Total,                                                   73.4  147.2    82.9
of which has been repaid                              37.6    -
Total now outstanding                                    35.8  147.2
Amount sold,                               3.6
of which has been repaid                3.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA /a                        35.8  147.2
Total undisbursed                                         2.4   80.5    82.9
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of February 28, 1979)
Amount of US$ Million
Year        Obligor                Type of Business         Loan   Equity   Total
1977  The Development Finance   Development Banking
Corporation of Ceylon                               -      0.1      0.1
1978  Bank of Ceylon              Development Banking       2.0     -        2.0
Total Commitment now held by IFC                     2.0    0.1        2.1



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Ln. No. 653 - Mahaweli Ganga Development (Irrigation/Power) Project;
US$14.5 million of January 30, 1970; Effective Date:
April 30, 1971; Original Closing Date: June 30, 1976;
Revised Closing Date:  July 31, 1979
The project, now complete, is about two years behind appraisal
target. Delays were due mainly to foundation problems at Polgolla power
house and a slow start at Bowatenna diversion dam. After overcoming these
problems, the construction progressed satisfactorily. Good progress has been
recorded to date on agricultural extension and research in the project area.
The Credit (174-CE) associated with this project has been fully disbursed.
An unallocated amount of US$2.0 million from the loan is being utilized for
the procurement of badly needed vehicles and equipment. This procurement
is underway. The closing date of the loan has accordingly been extended to
July 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 372-CE - Power Transmission and Distribution Project; US$6.0 million
of April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 5, 1973; Original
Closing Date: December 31, 1976; Revised Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The major part of the physical construction is complete. Completion
of the project will be during 1979 although disbursement from Credit 372-CE
and the cost overrun of US$1.7 million being financed from Loan 636-CE were
substantially completed by December 31, 1978. A major tariff increase of
about 100% was introduced from December 1, 1978 which will enable the CEB to
meet a 9% rate of return on revalued net fixed assets in 1979 and 1980.
Cr. No. 504 - Dairy Development Project; US$9.0 million of August 9, 1974;
Effective Date: February 10, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The original project, as appraised in 1973, was designed to increase
milk production on about 2,400 dairy farms covering 42,000 acres in the Coco-
nut Triangle and Mid Country of Sri Lanka by providing credit, technical
assistance and a strengthened milk collection, transport and marketing system.
Complementary objectives were to establish pilot units for commercial calf
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
rearing and pasture management systems; and provide processing equipment to
the National Milk Board. However, progress was severely constrained by the
poor supply of cattle available for onlending to project borrowers. The poor
supply of cattle was due to import problems and an over-estimation of the
national herd at appraisal stemming from unreliable Government statistics.
Moreover, unrestricted slaughter of cattle was stimulated by a rapid increase
in concentrate feed prices which made milk production unattractive plus the
relatively high consumer price of fish and poultry meat. It, therefore,
became necessary to reformulate the project. The revised project, still under
discussion with the Government, would focus on what was a small component of
the original project-support to dairy cooperatives. Under this component,
dairy farmers would be organized in a manner similar to the successful Anand
pattern of Dairy Cooperatives in India. The Government has requested the
National Dairy Development Board (India) to help evaluate the potential of
such an approach and the Chairman of NDDB visited Sri Lanka in December 1978
to evaluate Sri Lanka's technical assistance needs for the proposed approach.
Consequently, the supply of inputs and services would become key activities
of the revised project, which would include provision of technical assistance
and credit to farmers and support for milk collection, transport and marketing.
Preliminary proposals have already been received and accepted by IDA to expand
the successful ongoing calf/heifer rearing and pilot pasture programs. The
number of beneficiary farm families would be substantially increased (current
estimate approximately 10,000 vs. 2,400 in the original project) and the
project would contribute to a considerable increase in income of existing
landless and small farmer dairy producers. Government's commitment to the
proposed revised project approach is evidenced by the recent Cabinet approval
to provide adequate incentives to dairy production in Sri Lanka.
Cr. No. 566 - Third Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$4.5 million of June 27, 1975; Effective Date:
August 22, 1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
The credit was designed to meet the estimated foreign exchange
requirements of the Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon (DFCC) for
lending mainly to export industries and tourism. The credit has been fully
committed and is likely to be fully disbursed by the closing date.
Cr. No. 595 - Agricultural Development Project; US$25.0 million of
December 24, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Original Closing Date: June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
The original closing date of June 30, 1978 has been extended to
June 30, 1979 to allow full utilization of credit funds. Disbursements
continue to be slow and only if the Project Coordinating Committee and the
participating agencies take quick actions as agreed with IDA will it be
possible to commit the remaining US$4.9 M out of a total of US$7.1 undis-
bursed before the new closing date. Funds still available are for import
of spare parts for machinery rehabilitation programs of the Department of



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Agriculture and the Department of Machinery and Equipment, and the importation
of about 300 tractors for farmers and 75 4-wheel drive vehicles for the two
estate corporations' field supervisory work.
Cr. No. 666 - Tank Irrigation Modernization Project; US$5.0 million of
January 12, 1977; Effective Date: April 12, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Implementation of the first two tanks is now about one year behind
schedule but construction equipment has arrived and construction progress has
begun to pick up significantly. Unfortunately, quality control has been neg-
lected and some of the completed works are poorly constructed. Some of these
works will have to be reconstructed or water losses and O&M costs will be
unacceptably high. The Government has agreed to take action to improve quality
control and closely monitor future work and will reconstruct those facilities
which do not function properly after operation commences. In this regard, a
quality control training program was provided by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation
in the USA for three Irrigation Department engineers during November-December
1978 and it is hoped that construction quality will improve to the levels
required. A well-qualified Water Management Specialist has arrived (part-time)
to set up a water management training program for Irrigation Department staff
and farmers and much improvement is expected in this area. A full-time
resident Project Manager has been appointed and coordination and construction
progress are expected to improve. Project completion is expected to be
delayed about one year.
Cr. No. 701 - Mahaweli Ganga Development II Project; US$19.0 million of
of April 21, 1977; Effective Date: December 29, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Government has undertaken development of the project on an
accelerated basis and is striving to complete the project by end 1979.
Unfortunately, in its haste to meet set target dates, Mahaweli Development
Board (MDB) initiated work in all areas of the project on an ad hoc basis,
by-passed certain work required in preparing lands for settlement, sacrificed
construction quality standards and practices requisite to works of good
quality, changed portions of the main canal alignment where difficulties were
encountered and embarked upon settlement actions without ensuring that neces-
sary support programs and infrastructure development would be in place when
settlement of the lands was done. The Government has agreed to take action
to improve quality control and closely monitor all work in the future. In
this regard, a quality control training course was provided by the US Bureau
of Reclamation in the USA for four MDB engineers during November/December 1978
and it is hoped that construction quality will improve to the levels required.
A Resident Project MIanager has recently been appointed, filling a vacancy that
has existed for more than a year, and project implementation and coordination
activities are expected to improve considerably. Project completion may be
advanced by about 1-1/2 years earlier than estimated at appraisal.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Cr. No. 709 - Water Supply Project; US$9.2 million of May 10; Effective Date:
February 9, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Good progress has been made in implementing institutional changes,
introducing a new bulk water tariff, establishing new accounting procedures
both in the National Water Supply and Drainage Board and in local authorities.
Although almost all of the procurement documents have been completed, only
one contract for the purchase of equipment for the project has been awarded.
Several bids for civil works and equipment have been received but progress
is slow in bid analysis and contract award. Draft contracts for a tariff
study in the project area and for engineering services have been finalized.
Cr. No. 742 - Fourth Development Finance Corporation of Ceylon Project;
US$8.0 million of September 30, 1977; Effective Date:
December 16, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This credit will meet a substantial portion of DFCC's estimated
foreign exchange requirements for lending to private sector industrial
projects and tourism. Subprojects for US$4.1 million have been authorized.
DFCC remains a competent institution, with a rapidly increasing level of
activity, which could increase further provided that DFCC's staffing problems
are overcome as well as the constraint caused by the low equity base.
Cr. No. 818 - Tree Crop Rehabilitation (Tea) Project; US$21.0 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
The implementation schedule calls only for preparatory actions to be
taken during this year. These include:
(a) a factory and field rationalization study followed by
preparation of tender documents for factory equipment;
(b) preparation of standard estate labor housing plans fol-
lowed by tender documents for construction; and
(c) preparation of tender documents for vehicles/tractors.
Progress has generally been satisfactory although the factory rationalization
study and preparation of standard housing plans will be completed about 3
months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 819 - Tree Crop Diversification (Tea) Project; US$4.5 million of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date:  December 15, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
Project progress is encouraging and gathering momentum not least
because of national political support for the project. Staff recruitment
of the National Agricultural Diversification and Settlement Authority (NADSA)



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
is nearly complete. The officers have been posted in the field and field
activities such as development of nurseries for planting materials, identi-
fication of housing clusters, soil conservation works, and some planting of
shade trees and pepper vines under existing shade trees have already started.
Cr. No. ... - Kurunegala Rural Development Project; US$20.0 million
The project was approved by the Executive Directors on March 29,
1979.



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SRI LANKA
ROAD MAINTENANCE REPORT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Country to prepare the project
9 months
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Department of Highways of the Government of Sri
Lanka with the assistance of CIDA and IDA missions.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project
May 1978 - June 1978
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 1978
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
March 16, 1979
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
September 1, 1979
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III: Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
An additional condition of effectiveness would be that
the Government would retain the services of a technical
assistance team of at least five consultants under terms
and conditions acceptable to IDA (para 62).
Other Special Conditions
(a) general conditions of contract, and specifications
would be finalized by December 31, 1979 (para 62);
(b) the Government would review the staffing within the
DOH and furnish to IDA a specific program including
a timetable, for its strengthening, by December 31,
1979 (para 47);
(c) by December 31, 1982, the Government would prepare
a five-year road investment program (para 49);
(d)  DOH and the Government would prepare a road main-
tenance program for 1981-85 by June 30, 1980 and
the Government would allocate funds to carry out
the mutually agreed maintenance program (para 50);
(e) by December 31, 1980, all unserviceable vehicles
and equipment of DOH beyond economic repair would
be disposed of (para 60).



71
C-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
z                                                         0~~~~~~_
0  1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     
-3 (Th~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
49~~~~



