Document of
The World Bank                    ~CF
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2334-GE
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
April 11, 1979
Transportation Division
South Asia Projects
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1                  Rs 15.8
Rs 1             =    US$0.063
Rs 1 million          US$63,290
SYSTEM OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES: BRITISH
1 foot (ft)          =   0.305 meters
1 mile (mi)          =   1.609 kilometers
PRINCIPAL GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CGR       -    Ceylon Government Railways
CIDA      -    Canadian International Development Agency
CSC       -    Ceylon Shipping Corporation
CTB       -    Ceylon Transport Board
DME       -    Department of Machinery and Equipment
DOH       -    Department of Highways
GOSL      -    Government of Sri Lanka
MLLD      -    Ministry of Lands and Land Development
MOFP      -    Ministry of Finance and Planning
MOPH      -    Ministry of Power and Highways
MOT       -    Ministry of Transport
MOTS      -    Ministry of Trade and Shipping
RTB       -    Regional Transport Board
SDCC      -    State Development and Construction Corporation
SLCTB     -    Sri Lanka Central Transport Board
TCEO      -    Territorial Civil Engineering Organization
vpd       -    vehicles per day
SRI LANKA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SRI LANKA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................                  1
A.    Economic Setting ..................................                 1
B.    Transport System ..................................                 2
C.    Transport Policy and Planning .....................                 7
II.    THE HIGHWAY SECTOR ....................................                   8
A.    The Highway Network and Highway Traffic ....             .......    8
B.    The Administration of Highways  ....................                9
C.    The Highway Planning and Finance ....              ..............    11
D.    Technical Aspects of Highway Construction
and Maintenance  .................................    12
III. THE PROJECT .14
A. Background .14
B. Objectives .15
C. Description .15
D. Cost Estimates .18
E. Execution of Project .20
F.  Project Monitoring and Planning .21
G. Procurement .22
H.  Financing and Disbursements .23
IV.    ECONOMIC EVALUATION ....................................                 23
A.    Sources of Benefits and Beneficiaries  ....            .........    23
B.    Costs and Benefits  ................................               25
C.    Conclusions  .......................................               26
V.    AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ........ .........    27
This report was prepared by Messrs. Y. Abe (Economist) and S. Thriscutt
(Highway Engineer).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Contd.)
TABLES
1.   Classification of Roads Maintained by DOH
2.   Motor Vehicle Statistics
3.   Highway Expenditures:  1972-1979
4.   Road Rehabilitation Project Component
5.   Bridge Replacement Project Component
6.   List of Maintenance Equipment to be Procured
7.   Project Costs Estimates by Type of Works
8.   Project Costs Estimates by Year
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
ANNEXES
1.   Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
2.   Project Reporting Requirements
3.   Methodology Used in Economic Analysis
4.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
World Bank Chart No. 20260 - DOH Organization Chart
20261 - Technical Assistance
20262 - Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD Map 14040R
This report is based on information provided by the Government of Sri Lanka
and collected by past missions in December 1977 and June 1978 and on the
findings of an appraisal mission in October 1978 consisting of Messrs. Y. Abe
(Economist) and S. Thriscutt (Highway Engineer) and assisted by Mr. A. Mackie
(Consultant). Additional reports and data relative to the project available
in IDA are listed in Annex 4.



SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
1.01      Sri Lanka is an island with an area of about 25,000 square miles.
The maximum geographical distances of the island are about 250 miles from north
to south and 150 miles from east to west. The topography of the country which
is flat in the coastal area and mountainous toward the center of the island,
rising to peaks of 7,000-8,000 feet, has influenced the transport infrastruc-
ture. Rivers flow in a radial pattern from the mountains and have no navi-
gational significance. Total population is about 14.4 million, of which a
very high percentage live within the southwest quadrant of the island with
densities of over 1,000 people per square mile. Another area of dense settle-
ment is the Jaffna peninsula, to the north. The size and topography of the
country and the location of population generates large and frequent short
distance transport of goods and passengers that can be well met by road trans-
port.
1.02      Recent economic growth has been modest; between 1972 and 1977 real
gross domestic product (GDP) increased by 3.7% annually. During the same
period, passenger and port traffic has been stagnant and freight traffic has
increased by about 3.6% per annum:
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977
Passenger
Numbers (billions)            1.5      1.5     1.3      1.4      1.5     1.6
Passenger-Miles (billions) 10.6    11.3        9.6    10.2    10.9    11.3
Freight
Tons (millions)              17.1    18.3    19.4    20.4    21.4    22.3
Ton-miles (millions)        684      714     736      766     789      813
All Ports
tons (million)                2.6     2.5      2.4      2.5     2.4      3.0
1.03      The major commodities involved in freight transport have been, and
still are, agricultural commodities such as foodgrains (rice, paddy and wheat)
as well as tree crops (tea, rubber and coconut) and other bulk commodities such
as cement and POL. Commodity movements are largely dictated by the location
of agricultural production and industry and Sri Lanka's orientation toward



-2-
export-import economy. The densely populated coastal strip is primarily
devoted to coconut and rubber production for export as well as paddy and vege-
table production for local consumption. The mountainous interior of the southern
half of the country is devoted largely to rubber and tea production. The
interior of the northern part (dry zone) has mainly cultivation under irriga-
tion. As for the manufacturing industry, about 75% of production is centered
in and around the Colombo area. While exports, i.e. tea, rubber and coconut,
are collected at the Colombo port from various parts of the country, imported
and the bulk of domestically produced goods originate from Colombo and are
distributed to various parts of the country. As a result, out of the total
freight transported, well over 50% is moved into and out of the Colombo
area.
1.04      The Government is preparing an Investment Program for the public
sector for the period 1979-83 and its draft aims at an average annual rate of
growth in real GDP of 5.5%. It assumes that freight transport demand would
grow at about 8% annually during the Plan period and passenger transport
demand at about 7.7%. The additional transport capacity within each mode
necessary to carry the projected traffic 'volumes would be achieved partly by
additional equipment and partly by better utilization of existing facilities.
Given their current poor performance, the planned investment in the railways
will have to be carefully reviewed during the plan execution. These comments
by IDA were passed on to the Government (GOSL) who indicated that a substantial
investment for capacity expansion has been curtailed.
B.   Transport System
1.05      The transport system of Sri Lanka comprises about 25,000 miles of
road of all types; about 950 route-miles of railways; one main and two minor
ports; and seven airports of which one handles international traffic. The
inland transport services are provided by the Ceylon Government Railway (CGR),
the Bus Boards consisting of the Sri Lanka Central Transport Board and nine
Regional Transport Boards, which are public corporations having a monopoly for
the operation of road passenger services throughout the island, and by a
number of private road goods operators. Other modes of transport, air and
coastal shipping, are relatively minor. A short pipeline is used to transport
crude oil from the oil berth at Colombo port to the refinery of Ceylon Petro-
leum Corporation in Colombo. Road transport is the most important mode in the
country; it carried 85% of total passenger miles and 79% of total freight
ton-miles in 1977:



-3-
No. of Passengers      Passenger Miles
(millions)            (billions)
1972         1977      1972       1977
Passenger   Rail                  85            66       1.9       1.7
Bus               1,390         1,529       8.7       9.5
Total             1,475         1,595      10.6      11.2
Tons (millions)    Ton Miles (millions)
1972        1977      1972        1977
Freight     Rail                 1.7           1.7       208       169
Truck              15.4          20.7       476       644
Total              17.1          22.4       684       813
1.06      Transport infrastructure has been deteriorating due to inadequate
maintenance and insufficiency of funds and foreign exchange for equipment and
spares. The situation is a consequence of the limited economic resources of
the country in past years. The severe foreign exchange shortage has led to
curtailment of imports essential to maintain the transport infrastructure and
equipment. Currently, transport capacity in road and rail is barely meeting
the need. Concerning sea transport, whereas the port of Colombo has ample
capacity most of its equipment is very old. Transport related agencies and
operators will have to adjust to the recent changes in economic policies
toward faster economic growth and liberalization of economic controls.
(a) Roads and Road Transport
1.07      Details of the highway subsector are discussed in Chapter II.
1.08      Road transport is the most important mode in the country, carrying
85% of total passenger and 79% of total freight in 1977 (para 1.05). As re-
gards freight, the road goods transport industry is unregulated (no business
licensing, no tariff regulations) and pricing is subject to market forces and
local circumstances. Trucking is mainly privately owned with small operators
predominating and some trucks are owned by Government Departments, public
corporations, Cooperative Societies and agricultural estates for "own account".
Because of severe restrictions on import of vehicles, spare parts and materials
in the past, the average age of the truck fleet is high. The GOSL estimates
that more than 50% of trucks are over 15 years old. Recent changes in Govern-
ment policy enable trucks to be imported freely, and truck imports are now
increasing substantially.
1.09      The Ceylon Transport Board (CTB), established in 1958, was a public
corporation having a monopoly of road passenger service operations throughout
the island. The CTB was reorganized in June 1978 and now consists of the Sri
Lanka Central Transport Board (SLCTB) and nine Regional Transport Boards
(RTBs). The former has control over procurement of imported equipment,
materials and spare parts for buses, production of bus equipment components,



- 4 -
assembly of buses, the fare structure and operational matters affecting more
than two RTBs. The RTBs are responsible for the day-to-day operation of
bus services. The Transport Boards are responsible to the Ministry of Trans-
port (MOT). They have presently a fleet of about 7,300 buses of which over a
third are more than ten years old. This, coupled with a shortage of spares
and materials, makes bus operations difficult. Though the workshop facilities
have been gradually improved and some incentive schemes have been introduced,
there are still arrears of repairs. These difficulties are reflected in the
relatively low availability of buses from depots for day-to-day operations -
during 1977 the number of buses operated per day were only 5,596 or a 76% of
the total fleet. However, with an average daily mileage per bus of 150 miles
and a load factor of 72% (average bus capacity of 53 seats), CTB's operational
performance is generally good given the circumstances.
1.10      In 1977 CTB carried 1.5 billion passengers for 9.5 billion passenger
miles. Passenger miles increased by over 9% annually during 1963-1973, and
reached 9.2 billion in 1973. However, in 1974, following the rise in the
price of fuels, services were curtailed, a five day work week (in lieu of the
previous 5-1/2 days) was adopted and bus fares raised substantially (by about
80%). Passenger miles therefore dropped in 1974 to 7.9 billion. Since then,
passenger miles in total have been increasing at about 6% per annum. Passenger
traffic carried during the period 1972-1977 is shown below (in millions):
Passengers           1972      1973      1974      1975     1976      1977
Numbers             1,390    1,405    1,249    1,336    1,436    1,529
Passenger
miles             8,697    9,213    7,905    8,315    9,100    9,507
1.11      The CTB had an operating surplus in 1963.  However, following
cost increases not compensated by tariff adjustments, its financial situation
deteriorated and in 1970 revenues were not adequate to cover working and admin-
istrative cash expenses. The small fare surcharge in 1971 and a substantial
fare increase effective February 1974 resulted in an improvement in CTB's
finances. In 1974 and 1975, it made a small operating surplus. There have
been significant cost increases since then and it is estimated that revenues
will barely cover working expenses during the period, 1976-1978.
(b) Railways
1.12      The railways, which play a relatively minor role in the transport
system, are operated by CGR as a Government Department which is a part of MOT.
The system comprises 866 miles of broad gauge and 87 miles of narrow gauge
lines. The condition of the infrastructure, bridges and track is generally
reasonable, although there is a substantial backlog of track renewals. The
railway is mostly diesel powered but the availability of locomotives has been
poor (65%-70%), due particularly to the lack of spare parts. The rolling
stock of the railway is old and availability is quite low. The main workshops
at Ratmalana suffer from low productivity due mainly to inadequate change over
from steam to diesel locomotive repairs, poor processing of work and deficient
material supply. Parallel with the poor operational performance, the working



ratio has increased over the past five years from 110% in 1972 to 142% in
1977.
1.13      Traffic in 1977 amounted to 66 million passengers and 1.8 million
tons of freight. Passenger and freight traffic on the railways during the
period 1972 to 1977 is shown below (in millions):
Traffic                1971/72      1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
(15 months)
Freight
Tons                    2.1        1.8       1.9       1.7      1.5       1.8
Ton miles             257.6      199.6    192.8    184.1    170.0    169.0
Passengers
Number                 98.5       90.0      69.7      69.1     71.4      65.7
Passenger
miles           2,384      2,051    1,726    1,780    1,867    1,735
Total annual rail freight traffic is below 2 million tons and traffic in ton
miles has virtually stagnated or is declining. Average freight distance carried
has also been declining. Passenger traffic has been stagnant, particularly
since 1974 when the five-day work week and the fare increases were introduced.
More than a third of passenger miles are accounted for by season ticket
traffic, most of it commuter within the Colombo area.
1.14      The physical, economic and sociopolitical environment in which CCR
operates has prevented relatively low cost operations because:
(a)  the physical size of the island and the distribution
of population and centers of economic activity results
in short traffic hauls;
(b)  the heavy gradients and sharp curves on the mainline
have contributed to low operating speeds vis-a-vis road
transport;
(c)  nearly every section of the railway is paralleled by a
road and, despite present poor conditions, road trans-
port is generally quicker;
(d)  the absence of any large volume of bulky, easily load-
able rail traffic makes it costlier to spread the terminal
costs and overheads over the ton miles involved; and
(e)  the railway has a large number of stations which forward
less than five tons of freight a month.
(c) Ports
1.15      There are three ports for deep sea vessels:  Colombo (on the west
coast) which is now handling more than 90% of the total tonnage through all
ports, and the other two ports of Galle (about 75 miles south of Colombo),



- 6 -
and Trincomalee (on the east coast) which handle the balance. All the ports
are administered by the Ministry of Trade and Shipping through the Colombo
Port Commission, while all cargo handling is dealt with by the Port (Cargo)
Corporation. A separate dockyard owned jointly by CPC and the Ceylon Shipping
Corporation operates ship repair work within the Colombo port area.
1.16      Colombo has the equivalent capacity of 14 deep water berths, together
with mooring inside the breakwaters for 22 ships. Development in hand includes
construction of a container berth about 850 ft. long which is near completion.
Galle has two deep water berths inside a natural bay where there is room to
take up to seven ships. Trincomalee has a natural harbor able to provide
anchorage for over 100 ships.
1.17      Freight traffic loaded and unloaded at all ports during 1972-77
is shown below (in thousand tons):
1972     1973      1974      1975      1976      1977
Colombo
export               891       865       845       918    1,000    1,010
import             1,535    1,487    1,477    1,363    1,245    1,722
Subtotal             2,426    2,352    2,322    2,281    2,245    2,732
Galle                    26        34        15       52        53       109
Trincomalee             167       158      112       145       127       135
Total                2,619    2,544    2,449    2,478    2,425    2,995
Port traffic was declining until 1976:  cargo handled at Colombo declined from
about 3.1 million tons in 1966 to 2.2 million tons in 1976. In 1977 port
traffic increased by about a half million tons due mainly to increased imports.
The indications of the first few months of 1978 are that the tonnage will con-
tinue to rise due to a higher level of economic development. There is still
ample port capacity and substantially more traffic could be handled if nec-
essary. However, there is a need to replace and augment cargo handling
equipment, improve workshop facilities and replace old equipment in order
to cater for the increasing cargo volumes.
(d) Ocean Shipping
1.18      The state owned Ceylon Shipping Corporation (CSC) was set up in
1971. CSC had only one freighter (14,600 DWT) in 1971; it now has eight cargo
vessels with a total dead weight tonnage of about 116,000. CSC is a member
of 13 Conference and Rate Agreements. CSC's major route is between Sri Lanka
and the UK, as well as other European countries. In 1977, CSC carried 47%
of the total export cargo, 77% of import cargo from the UK and nearly 33%
from the other European countries. The Government estimates that the foreign
exchange savings during the last six years would amount to US$16 million. CSC
has three subsidiary companies, the Ceylon Port Services Limited (operating



bonded stores), Colombo Dockyard Limited (for ship repairs) and Lanka Tankers
Limited (for carrying imported crude oil). The last two started their opera-
tions in 1974. Lanka Tankers has an old 30,000 DWT vessel which imports
crude oil from the Persian Gulf - 25% of Sri Lanka's crude oil import is
carried by this vessel.
1.19      GOSL also established the Central Freight Bureau in 1973 to provide
a central trade booking office to allocate all export freight space on ocean-
going vessels, to ensure the aggregation of goods to obtain economic loads, to
rationalize the sailing schedule of vessels and to obtain favorable freight
rates and terms for export cargoes. Due to the streamlining of export
cargo handling in this manner, GOSL estimates that significant foreign ex-
change savings have been achieved.
C.   Transport Policy and Planning
1.20      Highway planning and construction is the responsibility of the
Department of Highways (DOH) in the Ministry of Power and Highways (MOPH).
The MOT is responsible for railways and road transport; the Ministry of Trade
and Shipping (MOTS), for ports and shipping; and the Ministry of Defense, for
civil aviation. Thus, responsibility for transport planning and policy
execution is scattered. The Ministry of Finance and Planning (MOFP) could
coordinate transport investments and policy, but it has not the staff for this
purpose.
1.21      Planning has in practice meant the putting together of the programs
and proposals of different agencies with only limited coordination when the
need is obvious. Consideration of alternatives, and economic analyses, are
rare. In particular, the problems of road-rail alternatives and definition of
the future role of the railway have yet to be tackled. There has been also a
tendency to spread limited funds thinly over various modes and various works
in a particular mode of transport. The Government will, with the help of
technical assistance, have to determine a strategy and select investment
priorities to stem the possible deterioration in transport capacity and to
provide sufficient capacity for the increasing transport demand arising from
economic development. Since the island is relatively small, the railways can
have only a limited economic role to play in some areas, such as commuter
passenger traffic in and around Colombo and the transport of a few bulk
commodities. Canada has been assisting CGR to improve its operational effi-
ciency through provision of technical assistance and has financed a study in
order to define the role of CGR. Bus transport is currently being reviewed
by IDA with a view to assisting SLCTB to improve operations and financial
position. The ports are being studied by consultants financed by the Japanese
Government with a view to improving operational efficiency and providing
equipment for replacement.
1.22      GOSL regulates passenger fares of both rail and bus services.
Pricing changes in CGR and the Bus Boards require ministerial approval and
there is always a tendency to restrict or delay increases. The Government did
allow CGR and the Bus Boards to raise tariffs in 1974 and again in 1978 for
RTBs, bringing transport charges somewhat closer to costs. In the case of



- 8-
freight traffic, while road tariffs are unregulated, rail tariffs are regu-
lated by GOSL and there has been a reluctance to adopt pricing policies which
reflect costs.
1.23      The GOSL's current economic objectives are incorporated into the
Medium-Term Development Program, 1979-83. The Plan represents an attempt at
realizing an expansion in employment, high average economic growth and pro-
gressive improvement in the balance-of-payments by increasing emphasis on
agriculture and industry. Of the total public investment in the Plan, 15%
is allocated to transportation, and about half of this amount is for highway
and road transport investments. In view of the insufficient maintenance and
investment expenditures in the transport sector during past 10 years, the
plan allocation to the highway subsector can be considered modest.
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Highway Network and Highway Traffic
2.01      Compared to the other countries of South Asia, Sri Lanka has a
relatively extensive and well-developed highway network, evolved largely to
serve the needs of plantations by bringing their produce to the ports. The
highway system maintained bv DOH amounts to 15,479 miles, of which 11,200
miles are paved (Table 1). There are also some 10,000 miles not maintained by
DOH which were built for specific estates and irrigation schemes.
2.02      Most highways were built many years ago and have since had few
improvements, while roadside development has encroached into the original
right-of-way over long sections. A number of bridges are structurally unsound
as well as too narrow for traffic, and there are lengths of highway throughout
the country where pavement failure is imminent. Maintenance of both pavement
and bridges has been insufficient for a number of years. These factors com-
bine to cause low average traffic speeds, high operating costs and frequently
dangerous conditions. The road network now requires sound maintenance and
substantial rehabilitation to prevent further serious deterioration.
2.03      The motor vehicle fleet at the end of July 1978 as estimated by the
Commissioner of Motor Vehicles in MOT totalled about 218,000 made up of about
100,000 automobiles, 40,000 trucks and 10,000 buses with the remainder being
tractors and trailers used mainly on tea, rubber and other agricultural
estates (Table 2). Present vehicle fleet is equivalent to an average of one
vehicle for 66 persons. Because of severe restrictions on import of vehicles,
spare parts and materials in the past, the vehicle fleet is on average very
old. Statistics of capacity of trucks are not available. However, most trucks
are 5-7 ton capacity and the maximum permitted gross weight of vehicles
throughout the country is 15 tons. The import of trucks for private operators
was almost nil for several years, but after the liberalization of imports in
1977, truck imports are increasing at a rapid rate.
2.04      There are no motor vehicle manufacturers in Sri Lanka, but several
private industries assemble a wide range of motor vehicles and SLCTB also



- 9 -
assembles buses with a capacity of 1,000 annually. Imports of vehicles are
only limited by legal size maxima but substantial custom duties are levied
on vehicle imports, duty rates ranging between 40% - 50% of CIF values.
2.05      There are 27 traffic counting stations on National Roads island-
wide. The sporadic counts carried out since 1961 indicate only that average
traffic growth was practically zero up to 1975 when some counts were last
taken. The proportion of heavy vehicles in the traffic stream has increased
from about 39% in 1962 to 55% in 1978, indicating a decreased usage of cars
since registration figures do not show a corresponding change in fleet compo-
sition. However, these data are derived from GOSL returns, which may not take
proper account of vehicle mortalities. For the future, the forecast GNP growth
rate of about 5% per annum in real terms can be expected to produce average
annual traffic growth rates of 7 to 8%, with a relatively more rapid growth
for cars than for other vehicle types. Given the present condition of the
highway network, this rate of growth will soon lead to a noticeable deteriora-
tion in road travel standards.
B. The Administration of Highways
2.06      In 1969, the highways and buildings functions of the Public Works
Department were separated to form DOH and a Buildings Department. In the
following year, DOH was placed under the Ministry of Irrigation, Power and
Highways (MIPH) where it acted as an administrative and planning headquarters.
Construction and maintenance work relating to highways was carried out by
other departments within the same Ministry, who also dealt with irrigation and
power projects. These departments were:
The State Development and Construction Corporation (SDCC)
which undertook construction of most bridges for DOH:
The Department of Machinery and Equipment (DME) which
operated central and a number of regional workshops and
purchased, allocated, operated and maintained all vehicles,
plant and equipment in MIPH; and
The Territorial Civil Engineering Organization (TCEO)
which, through a number of regional chief engineers,
maintained the highway system and built minor bridges
and offices, stores, etc., connected with highways.
2.07      After reorganization in 1978, TCEO was divided between DOH and the
Department of Irrigation in the Ministry of Lands and Land Development (MLLD);
DOH itself was placed under the Ministry of Power and Highways (MOPH). DME
was also divided, eight regional and one central workshops coming to DOH,
temporarily with their existing staff, the remainder going to MLLD. The
future of SDCC was not decided at the time of appraisal, but GOSL has since
stated that SDCC will be placed under MLLD. This means that DOH will have
to rebuild a Bridge Section, similar to that from which SDCC was originally



- 10 -
formed. The effect of these changes is that DOH is required to adopt an
executive responsibility for which it is unprepared. It will have to carry
out its work through institutions which have recently undergone radical
changes in make up, function and control and which, in the case of DME (as
transferred to DOH), lack a central organization for major overhauls, spares
control, procurement, records and costing. In these circumstances, DOH will
require substantial technical assistance, and the workload it can carry can
be increased only very gradually. In the meantime, GOSL will have to make
arrangements to augment the capabilities of DOH by providing some services
from DME and SDCC during the period when DOH is building up its own facilites.
It has been agreed that GOSL will prepare a plan specifying the role of DME
and SDCC in respect of DOH and will implement the plan from December 31, 1979.
The present structure of DOH headquarters is illustrated in World Bank Chart
No. 20260.
2.08      DOH has no shortage of clerical staff, but suffers, with the rest
of Government, from a continuing drain of professional staff to other coun-
tries where salaries are many times higher and prospects are judged to be
better. Thus, of the approved establishment of 200 engineers of all grades
in DOH, at the time of appraisal, only 108 posts were filled by qualified
engineers, and a further 36 executive engineers' positions were occupied,
generally adequately, by senior techical officers who have experience but
are not professionally qualified. There were, therefore 56 posts unfilled
from those of Deputy Directors downwards. There are similar shortages at
technician levels where high-grade experienced staff are hard to find. In
some Districts, the attraction of higher wages paid on the Mahaweli project
is causing a shortage of even unskilled labor. The situation has been alle-
viated to some extent by the recent decision that civil servants shall be
exempt from paying income tax on government salaries. However, there is a
need to review manpower situations and requirements in DOH, where some sec-
tions are at present undermanned while others appear to have surplus. With
the help of technical assistance to be provided under the credit, GOSL should
prepare a timetable for strengthening DOH staff through training, systematic
rotation of experienced staff and inhouse training of foreman. It has been
agreed that GOSL will review staffing of DOH by December 31, 1979 with a time
table and specific program for strengthening DOH agreed between GOSL and IDA.
Earlier review is not possible for the reasons discussed in para 2.07.
2.09      The Deputy Director (Engineering Services) has responsibility in
DOH for management and training. There are no formal arrangements for staff
training, and the practice followed until 1970 of putting new road supervisors
through a six-month familiarization course has fallen into disuse. Univer-
sities in Sri Lanka turn out about 250 professional engineers a year, and
they will normally work for government only for as long as it takes them to
acquire reasonable practical experience. Of the 145 graduate engineers turned
out from one center in 1969, only seven are said still to be in Sri Lanka.
The situation with technicians is similar, although not so acute. At present,
even at maximum government salary rates many technicians with some experience
take the first opportunity to leave government service for commercial employ-
ment or an overseas post. There is a need to strengthen training activities
and a training specialist, to be financed under the credit, would assist DOH
to identify and implement needed training programs which will allow, so far as
possible, for the staff turnover caused by rival employment opportunities.



- 11 -
C. Highway Planning and Finance
2.10      Planning, project appraisal, design and research are handled in DOH
by the Deputy Director of Engineering Services. For construction projects,
a technical report is prepared and submitted to the Ministry of Finance and
Planning so that the project can be approved and included in the budget esti-
mates. In the absence of detailed traffic data and vehicle operating costs,
project appraisal cannot be considered rigorous. There is no firm long-term
highway development plan, and most projects originate from an expression of
need or desire from the public, usually channelled through Ministers or
Members of Parliament. Planning of highway maintenance is based on past
patterns and obvious needs without reference to traffic loads experienced or
expected on particular routes. There is a need for strengthening highway
planning and preparing a medium-term investment program for highways. The
technical assistance team will assist in these areas. It has been agreed
that GOSL will furnish to IDA, by December 31, 1982, a 5 year highway invest-
ment program designed to follow the present Medium Term Plan. This draft
investment program will be reviewed by IDA with a view to agreeing on an
overall investment plan for the highway sector in Sri Lanka.
2.11      The past and present expenditures on roads have not kept pace with
requirements (Table 3). At present, annual maintenance allocations are about
Rs 5,500 or US$360 equivalent per annum per mile of road maintained by DOH
(Tables 1 and 3). Allowing for the fact that very little routine maintenance
is, in fact, carried on Class D and E roads, the annual allocation is effec-
tively about US$500 equivalent per mile on main routes, which is barely
sufficient to cover the costs of proper routine maintenance aInd makes little
allowance for periodic maintenance or weather damage. To ensure correct
standards of maintenance, GOSL should aim to double the present allocation per
mile (in terms of 1978 prices) as soon as DOH is able to undertake the extra
work involved, so as to allow minimal correct routine and periodic maintenance
of all roads. The technical assistance team should assist DOH to produce a
logical highway maintenance improvement program designed to achieve this
objective within five years. It has been agreed that such a road maintenance
program for the period 1981-85 be submitted to IDA by June 30, 1980 and that
the necessary extra funds will be made available to carry out the program.
2.12      Funds for construction and improvement of Class C, D and E roads
are provided through the so-called decentralized budget, which is distributed
by District Ministers (previously by government agents), in each district.
Hence, district Chief Engineers receive demands for work to be done, and
funds for its execution, from both MOPH and from District Ministers. Selec-
tion of work by District Ministers may be influenced by immediate and local
considerations which inhibits implementation of long-term general planning.
Furthermore, there is often pressure for such work to be completed quickly.
Hence, with the shortages of equipment and staff experienced by district Chief
Engineers, progress in the planned work program risks being affected by the
introduction of unplanned projects. There is the need for all parties to
accept that a work program must be fixed for about a year ahead, to be altered
only in cases of real emergency. The task of Chief Engineers and executive



- 12 -
engineers is made more complex by the fact that DOH districts and adminis-
trative districts do not always coincide, so one engineer may find himself
dealing with more than one District Minister. Assurances have been received
from GOSL that progress of the project will not be affected by diversion of
limited resources of equipment, materials and manpower to other works, except
in the event of emergencies.
2.13      GOSL's revenue from road users was estimated to be about half the
amount spent on the road system. By far the greatest source of revenue comes
from import duties on vehicles and spares (Rs 55 million or US$3.5 million
equivalent in 1977). With other taxes such as license fees and sales tax,
the total revenue for 1977 was estimated at Rs 90 million or US$5.7 million
equivalent. By comparison, total road expenditures in 1977 was about Rs 172
million or US$10.9 equivalent. There is no fuel tax levied on gasoline and
diesel oil. GOSL will investigate present road user costs, as a part of the
preparation of the 5 year road maintenance program referred to in para 2.11,
with the object of proposing suitable means to bring revenue from road users
approximately into line with highway expenditures, and review the results of
the investigation with IDA.
D. Technical Aspects of Highway Construction and Maintenance
2.14      Apart from poor alignment and narrow widths, pavement thicknesses
on highwavs are zenerallv insufficient for modern traffic flows. There has
been no collection of data on axle weights, but the impression is that severe
overloading is not common. 1/ However, the need to move construction traffic
associated with several large irrigation schemes is likely to alter this
picture. Even forecast traffic growth without any increase in average axle
loading will cause pavement failures to become more common. The average main
road pavement is about 6 ins thick, made up of a compacted stone layer with
bituminous surface treatment. Roadside drainage is generally incomplete or
entirely absent, often due to roadside development which has obliterated
whatever may have existed originally. Bridges are often narrow, and the
steel deck members, commonly used, show signs of severe or dangerous cor-
rosion, especially near the seacoast. Piers, abutments and foundations are
often entirely sound, but usually cannot be reused due to being too narrow or
on bad alignments. Current practice is to use heavy abutments on caisson
foundations. This is unnecessarily expensive, takes a long time to build and
restricts the waterway area. On many bridges, piled foundations and open
abutments would be as cheap or cheaper, could be built more rapidly and would
give a much larger waterway area for similar cost. These matters will be fol-
lowed up during supervision missions and by the technical assistance to be
provided under 'the project.
2.15      Over much of the island, an extra 4 to 6 ins of compacted stone
base would probably give enough pavement strength for a further 10 or more
years of life. However, this must be checked by proper subgrade soil testing
1/   A limited survey by UK technical assistance showed 5-ton trucks
commonly carrying about 5.4 tons, which does not constitute serious
overloading.



- 13 -
and equipment is held in the central testing laboratory in Colombo, suffi-
cient to set up nine regional laboratories able to handle this work. Such
regional laboratories should be established to coincide with the start of any
highway investment/maintenance program. DOH plans to establish and equip
all regional laboratories by December 1980, and subgrade soil testing has
commenced on those sections of road planned for early improvements. The
expected traffic flows on most roads do not warrant any heavier surfacing than
double bituminous surfacing over a prime coat. However, on some routes, a 2
in. premix bituminous surface will be required, and this has been allowed for
in the estimates. DOH has some old premix surfacing equipment, at present
operating in the South of the island, but a replacement will be financed
under the credit.
2.16      At present, nominal 80/100 penetration bitumen is used for surfac-
ing works and repairs. Heating and application rates are poorly controlled,
and wet conditions make good work impossible for several months of each year.
Repair of potholes and small areas of failure is badly carried out so that
within a very short time the repair must be done again. The necessity to
heat the bitumen in wood-fired boilers or even directly in drums reduces the
amount of patching work that can be completed each day, and shortage of fire-
wood is reducing outputs still further. Bituminous emulsion is produced
locally, and it is intended to use this in place of straight bitumen at least
for patching in order to improve outputs and the standard of work done.
Engineers and laborers will have to be trained in the correct use of this
material in order to obtain good results. GOSL will examine how the supply
of bituminous emulsion can best be increased sufficiently to meet the antici-
pated demand from the project, and technical assistance will suggest suitable
specifications for its use in the project.
2.17      Sri Lanka is fortunate in having an abundance of good road-making
materials in granite outcrops except in the extreme north around Jaffna.
Quarry sites with little or no overburden can usually be found within a few
miles, and the natural soils are usually reasonably strong and stable. Tradi-
tionally, broken stone for roadbase has been produced by hand drilling, blast-
ing and hand knapping to size. Hand knapping is satisfactory for larger sizes,
but is very slow and expensive for surfacing size stone; i.e., below about
one-inch size. In order to produce well shaped small sized stone in reason-
able quantity, mobile granulators are required to supplement hand labor. These
granulators must be small enough to be easily portable since large sized equip-
ment would involve higher transport costs and require more labor in quarries
than can usually be found within walking distance. Localized labor shortages
may cause difficulties in obtaining even larger sized stone in some areas, and
there would then be a reason to introduce primary crushing equipment. For the
same reason, compressors and air drills may be needed in some regions. Small
commercial quarries exist over most of the island, and although the increase
in construction work has caused a threefold price rise around Colombo, com-
mercial prices are often competitive with the cost of force account stone
production elsewhere. Equipment to be supplied under the project includes
a range of quarrying and crushing plant sufficient to give DOH an independent
ability to produce stone for the project.



- 14 -
2.18      Obstruction of side drains is causing pavement deterioration in most
built-up areas, and the severe side friction to traffic caused by intense
development right up to the carriageway edge is bringing about high economic
costs which cannot easily be reduced. If the value of investments in highway
improvements are to be realized, Government will have to tackle the whole
problem of encroachment onto the right-of-way and control access from road-
side properties. In some cases, such as the Colombo-Galle road and parts of
the Colombo-Kandy road, the only satisfactory solution now will be relocation
of sections of the road to bypass built-up areas. Any move to improve con-
ditions will, in the end, be ineffective unless the encroachment by roadside
development onto the right of way can be halted. Legislation to control
encroachment exists but has fallen into disuse and is not being enforced.
GOSL is currently drafting new legislation designed to tackle the problem
more effectively than at present, and it is hoped that this new legislation
will be in effect by June 1980.
2.19      The commercial engineering contracting industry in Sri Lanka has
been moribund for the last decade, and its present abilities are uncertain.
However, in view of the amount of work that requires to be done in all areas,
quite apart from highways, its revival would be beneficial, a fact which Gov-
ernment now recognizes. For reasons already discussed, the capacity of DOH
itself to undertake work will be severely limited for several years. Commer-
cial firms have shown an interest to take part in highway projects, but it
must be realized that contractors' output and work standards will be uncertain
at the start. A few overseas contractors have made bids for housing develop-
ment contracts, possibly as a means to establish themselves for other work
they expect will come. A practical method of restarting domestic contractors
would be to encourage associations with overseas firms as a means of introduc-
ing expertise and equipment suited to the environment of Sri Lanka. DOH is
circulating notices inviting contractors to prequalify, and the response to
this invitation should be known by mid 1979. IDA has started discussions
w.ith GOSL proposing a study with a view to developing the construction
industry in the country.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01      Over the past two decades, the road network has been steadily
deteriorating. Based on the IDA transport sector review of 1966, the First
Highway Project was formulated and was approved in 1968 but was later can-
celled due to a changed Government which advocated changing the emphasis of
the project towards new construction rather than rehabilitation. At the
Government's request, the 1966 sector review was updated by an IDA mission in
1976 which concluded that there might be a high priority requirement for
improved maintenance in the road sector. The project was identified in
December 1977 and appraised in October 1978 with the help of two engineers
financed by CIDA.



- 15 -
B. Objectives
3.02      The main project objectives are to facilitate the transport of
goods and passengers and to reduce road transport costs. The project is
designed to:
(a)  restore portions of the road network and some bridges where
deterioration is such that further maintenance efforts are
fruitless, and arrest further general deterioration by a pro-
gram of enhanced routine and perodic maintenance, utilizing
limited mechanical equipment with proper quality control to
give technically improved results; and
(b)  lay the foundation for improved planning of highway
maintenance and execution of works in the future,
based on better collection and analysis of traffic
and cost data.
C. Description
3.03      The project consists of:
(a)  rehabilitation and limited improvement of about 112 miles
of road and resealing or resurfacing of about a further
150 miles;
(b)  improvement of routine and periodic highway maintenance;
(c)  strengthening, repair or replacement of about
30 bridges;
(d)  procurement of road maintenance and workshop
equipment and spares; and
(e)  technical assistance.
The locations of the road sections proposed for rehabilitation and of
the bridges proposed for repair are shown on IBRD Map 14040. These sections
were selected from a larger program proposed by DOH, on the criteria of obvious
risk of complete failure and highest economic returns, overall size being
limited by resources available.
(a) Road Rehabilitation
3.04      Road rehabilitation is planned over about 112 miles of main routes
in seven locations spread over the island. The work comprises selective widen-
ing or realignment over short distances (except in one case where general
relocation is to be investigated), provision of extra stone base over a total
length of 66 miles with new surfacing, general improvement of shoulders and



- 16 -
roadside drainage and repair of failed areas and single bituminous seal over
46 miles. It is proposed that 29 miles of extra stone base with associated
surfacing and 46 miles of single bituminous seal will be completed by DOH, the
remainder being done by contractors. Details of the work proposed are given
in Table 4 and of equipment to be supplied in Table 6. Detailed pavement
design will be completed by DOH, with the help of technical assistance to be
provided under the project, and design work is in hand for about half the
length of road proposed for rehabilitation.
(b) Improvement of Routine and Periodic Maintenance
3.05      It would not be possible to reorganize routine maintenance country-
wide and completely within the period of one project, but the capability of
DOH to repair potholes and local pavement failures can and should be improved.
A start has already been made by procuring small vibrating rollers which are
used to compact pavement repairs. It is proposed to speed the process by
financing training, light equipment and some materials so that material for
pavement repairs can be produced on site and used more efficiently than by
present methods. Enough equipment is proposed so that all 74 executive
engineers' divisions and suboffices can be equipped with mobile hand sprayers
and tampers before project completion, and staff will be trained in their
correct use. In order to improve periodic maintenance practice, the Colombo-
Kalutara district will be re-equipped and, with the help of technical assist-
ance, reorganized to be able to carry out resealing and resurfacing correctly.
The district will then act as a demonstration district to train staff from
other parts of the country in improved work methods of periodic maintenance.
Details of equipment to be supplied are given in Table 6.
(c) Bridge Strengthening, Repair or Replacement
3.06      Thirty bridges have been identified where there is a danger of
structural failure, often due to corrosion of metal deck parts, or where
the structure is weak and so narrow or badly aligned that the bridge con-
stitutes a significant traffic hazard. It is proposed that these will be
repaired or replaced, usually using precast, prestressed units produced by
SDCC. For most of the bridges in the program, DOH standard designs can be
used, and design is complete for nine of the thirty bridges and in progress
for most of the remainder. Design will be completed by the DOH Bridge Design
Section, with the help of technical assistance to be provided under the
project. Implementation of the bridge program will depend on the build-up
of a new bridge construction section within DOH, and equipment is being
provided under the project to speed this process (Table 6). Some bridges in
the early part of the program will be constructed by SDCC, and those proposed
for construction by contract later in the program will be offered to private
contractors if the other commitments of SDCC limit its capacity for bridge
works.
(d) Procurement of Road Maintenance and Workshop Equipment and Spares
3.07      Operations of DOH are restricted by the fact that the vehicle
and equipment fleet is old and in constant need of repairs. At present,
workshops and depots operated by DOH are congested by many obsolete vehicles



- 17 -
and items of plant which cannot be repaired or for which spares are no longer
available. Their presence hinders work and restricts the covered space in
workshops so that new items of equipment are often stored or repaired in the
open. It has been agreed that all DOH equipment and vehicles beyond hope of
economic repair will be disposed of by December 31, 1980. The work of DME is
made more difficult by the great number of different makes and models in use
so that lack of spares causes delays in repair completion of up to several
years. Apart from equipment for routine highway maintenance, the project will
re-equip one district (Colombo-Kalutara) with enough vehicles and plant to
allow correct routine and periodic maintenance to be carried on. This will
release the present plant and vehicles for use in other districts. The
Colombo-Kalutara District does not have a workshop at present, and it is
proposed to provide and equip suitable premises for a regional workshop on a
site to be provided by GOSL. The site should be inland to avoid excessive
corrosion of equipment and materials, and GOSL has confirmed that a suitable
site for the regional workshop will be available by December 31, 1979.
Details of the equipment items to be provided under the project are given
in Table 6.
3.08      With the division of DME between DOH and DLLD, the present central
workshops at Ratmalana will no longer be available for DOH use, but premises
for a new DOH central workshop are available at Angulana, near Colombo. At
present, there is a suitable building but without any equipment, there are
no spares holdings, and there is no staff or control organization. It is
proposed to provide some equipment and spares sufficient for initial servicing
and repair of items procured under the project. Details of the items to be
provided are given in Table 6. Spares for the existing fleet will be provided
from the present stocks at Ratmalana, but these are inadequate, and approxi-
mately US$200,000 has been allowed under spares and supplies to provide a
larger spares stock at Angulana for the part of the existing fleet used in
the project.
(e) Technical Assistance
3.09      The changes in DOH and its executive arms which took place in the
past several months make a substantial amount of technical assistance neces-
sary if the project is to have a significant impact. A total of about 182
manmonths is proposed, at an estimated average cost of US$6,300 per man-month,
including all allowances, and external travel. The team consists of a highway
planning engineer (team leader), a highway and bridge design engineer, a
mechanical engineer, a highway maintenance engineer (training specialist), a
contracts engineer, a management and accounting specialist who will be a Sri
Lankan national and a mechanical superintendent. The draft Terms of Reference
given in Annex 1 have been agreed with GOSL. The team is designed to help
DOH's transition from a planning and administrative body to an executive
organization. The technical assistance will also help to bridge the staff
shortage referred to in para 2.08. Of the 182 manmonths proposed, it is
intended to provide up to 20 manmonths at a cost of US$140,000 to be retro-
actively financed under the project, in order that work on preparation
of contract documents and equipment procurement can be expedited. In the



- 18 -
event that the response from contractors is not sufficient to carry out the
rehabilitation work proposed for them (para. 3.04), it will be necessary to
increase the work done by force account, which may involve an extension of
the project period and will require extra equipment and technical assistance.
The latter would comprise two site engineers and two mechanical superinten-
dents, but the extra budget costs involved would be offset by the lower budget
costs of carrying out work by force account. Details of the technical assist-
ance proposed, as shown in World Bank Chart No. 20261, have been agreed with
GOSL.
3.10      DOH is in the process of selecting a technical assistance team, and
a condition of credit effectiveness should be that DOH will retain a suitable
team, under terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, for the successful imple-
mentation of the project.
D. Cost Estimates
3.11      The total cost of the project, is estimated at US$28.8 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange cost of US$13.4 million equivalent (47%)
and including a total for taxes and duties of US$3.8 million equivalent.
Details are given in Table 7 and by year in Table 8. The following is a
summary of costs:



- 19 -
(SLRs million)            (US$ millions)
Item                      Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total
I.   Equipment & Tools         5.55    74.06   79.61    0.35  4.69   5.04
II.  Spares & Supplies         0.65      9.47   10.12    0.04  0.60   0.64
III. Materials                 9.84    21.94   31.78    0.62   1.39   2.01
III. Local Staff               60.94    -        60.94    3.85    -       3.85
IV.  Technical Assistance       1.75   16.45   18.20    0.11   1.04   1.15
V.   Contract Works            51.82   50.98  102.80    3.28   3.23   6.51
Total I-V            130.55  172.90  303.45    8.25  10.95  19.20
Contingencies:
(a) Physical                   12.80   13.75   26.55    0.81   0.87   1.68
(b) Provision for Price
increases:                 39.98   25.12   65.10    2.53   1.59   4.12
TOTAL                183.33  211.77  395.10   11.59  13.41  25.00
Taxes and Duty:                59.20      -     59.20    3.75    -        3.75
GRAND TOTAL          242.53  211.77  454.30   15.34  13.41  28.75
3.12      A quantity contingency of 5% has been allowed on equipment and
spares and 10% on all other items.  For price increases, the following contin-
gencies have been allowed:
Local Costs    Plant and Equipment         Other Items
1978       not applicable            7.5%                   9%
1979-80         15%                  6%                     7%
1980-83         10%                  6%                      7%
Estimates for equipment and tools are based on mid-1978 bid prices received,
updated to March 1979. Unit prices for works are based on DOH schedules of
rates and analysis of items but revised where appropriate after comparison
with other cost data and to allow for higher wage rates which have become
necessary in many areas to give estimated March 1978 prices. In addition,
a 25% allowance for marginal overheads and supervision costs has been added.
Costs for plant and tools are made up of the cost of new equipment to be
provided for the project plus an allowance of 2% of job cost for hand tools.
Cost of spares similarly allow for the spares to be provided for new equip-
ment plus an allowance for extra spares for the existing fleet to be used on



- 20 -
the project (para 3.08). Cost of fuel is included in the materials element
of unit rates. The estimated cost of contract work is based on unit rates,
estimated as for DOH work but with a 100% allowance for overhead, plant
depreciation and profit. Unit cost data has been built up from input costs
and estimated productivities, as assessed by the CIDA technical assistance
team and the appraisal mission, but since cost data for contract work is
almost non-existent in Sri Lanka, there is a probability of error in this
element. Should it become necessary to carry out all work by DOH, the budget-
ary decrease (about US$2.0 million) would be largely used up in extra technical
assistance required (approximately US$0.8 million) and extra equipment amount-
ing to about US$0.9 million, and there would then be some reallocation as
between local and foreign costs.
E. Execution of the Project
3.13      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of DOH assisted
by the technical assistance team. DOH will operate through district chief
engineers for force account highway rehabilitation, for minor bridge works
and for general supervision of contract works. Major bridge works will be
done by SDCC initially and thereafter by DOH's reconstituted bridge section
or by contract supervised by chief engineers, while a part of road rehabili-
tation will be done by contract (Tables 4 and 5). Equipment operation and
repair will be handled by DME initially until DOH has equipped and set up
its own organization. The project represents an additional workload on DOH
and chief engineers of about 20% over that which has been carried in recent
years, assuming the the Government budget for highways continues at its present
level. As the individual rehabilitation works and bridge constructions are
each of relatively low value and as individual works are scattered, the work
would probably not be attractive to international contractors. Furthermore,
the relatively simple nature of the work means that joint ventures are also
unlikely. As far as the domestic construction industry is concerned, private
contractors have been largely inactive during the last decade except for a
small amount of building work. There are still some half dozen large firms,
plus a number of smaller ones, who wish to become active again, but they now
lack modern equipment and recent experience. Invitations to prequalify are
being circulated by DOH, and there has been an initial response from about
35 firms of various sizes. However, if there is not sufficient response from
competent contracting firms, tOrCe dCCUUnlL uy DOll wiii iladve LO be useu ior
the part of the road rehabilitation now proposed for contract. It is
expected that a proposed UNDP financed study into the Sri Lanka construction
industry may encourage a better response to bid invitations.
3.14      The physical execution of the project is planned to commence in the
last quarter of 1979 and to be completed in four years.  The first year will
be spent in engaging technical assistance, ordering equipment, completing
design of project works, inviting, receiving and evaluating contractors' bids
for rehabilitation works, setting up mechanical workshops and training. Some
preparatory force account highway rehabilitation will commence, principally the
production of crushed stone, and SDCC will continue with their bridge replace-
ment program, including some bridges under the project.



- 21 -
3.15      In the second year of the project, equipment will have arrived; and
force account rehabilitation work in Anuradhapura, Trincomalee and Ratnapura
districts can commence. Contract work will also commence in Year Two, details
of location and contract sizes having been decided during Year One with the
help of the technical assistance team. The demonstration highway maintenance
district at Colombo-Kalutara will have been set up by this time, and the
resealing and resurfacing program will commence.
3.16      The main construction and rehabilitation program will extend over
about three years. At the end of the project period, two major works (the
Bentota bypass and improvement of about 5 miles of the Colombo-Kandy road at
Kadugannuwa) will have been investigated and designed, and a sum has been
allowed in the cost estimates to be used either for land acquisition and
preliminary works on a new alignment, or for improvement of the existing
road. Should new alignments prove feasible, their construction would form
suitable components for financing under a follow-on project which would
include, inter alia, continuation of road and bridge rehabilitation and
the extension of improved maintenance to other parts of the island.
3.17      As a first step towards better maintenance islandwide, it is in-
tended to provide sufficient equipment to allow improved repairs of potholes
and local failures in all regions. The equipment will consist of small plate
compactors and bituminous emulsion handsprayers, pick-up trucks to give better
coverage of the road network and portable granulators to provide sufficient
small-sized crushed stone for routine repairs. Training at region level will
be given in correct methods of pavement repair, and it is expected that the
improved methods introduced will help to arrest further deterioration until
complete rehabilitation becomes possible. An outline implementation schedule,
which has been discussed and agreed with DOH, is shown in World Bank Chart
No. 20262.
F. Project Monitoring and Planning
3.18      Institution building is of primary importance to the project and
is made even more urgent by the recent changes in DOH organization. It is
planned within the project to create a capability for DOH to:
(a) monitor the economic, engineering and social aspects
of the project;
(b) plan and design highway and bridge rehabilitation and
improvement effectively and efficiently;
(c) set up and run its own mechanical equipment and spares
organization;
(d) plan and operate highway maintenance according to the
needs of traffic and highways, to include logical
budget programming; and



- 22 -
(e) improve costing and cost control procedures as an aid
to better forecasting of expenditures.
Initially, these tasks including monitoring will be principally undertaken by
the technical assistance team together with their Sri Lankan counterparts.
Close liaison will be necessary with other Ministries, upon whom reliance
must be placed during the first part of the project, at least, for servicing
mechanical equipment and for bridge construction. GOSL will arrange that the
services and resources necessary for the project from sections of Government
other than DOH will be forthcoming as required (para 2.07).
3.19      The assumptions used in pavement design, cost estimates and eco-
nomic analysis must be monitored and confirmed, with the help of technical
assistance. In particular, recent traffic counts are necessary to confirm
the economic analysis results, subgrade testing must be continued to confirm
the depth of extra base or overlay required, and updated local cost data used
to refine estimates of project costs. As there has been very little useful
cost experience for highway construction in Sri Lanka over the past ten years
especially in regard to contract work, it is to be expected that bids will
be subject to wide variations of price.
3.20      In the context of Sri Lanka, one of the main benefits of project
monitoring will be the opportunity to improve highway maintenance planning
and to reduce the risks presently associated with this operation. Project
monitoring and reporting requirements, as shown in Annex 2, together with the
need for GOSL to prepare a Completion Report not later than six months after
the Closing Date of the Credit have been agreed.
G. Procurement
3.21      Equipment, materials and supplies will be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding procedures with a 15% preference, or the
import tariff amount, whichever is the less, allowed on locally assembled
items in accordance with IDA's "Guidelines for Procurement." Items costing
under US$50,000 equivalent and with a total not exceeding US$200,000 would be
procured with GOSL's normal procedures after bids have been received from at
least three suppliers. IDA will review all contracts and related documentation
for goods and civil works estimated to cost US$100,000 equivalent or more before
an award is made. Contracts for construction or rehabilitation work should be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding procedures with a
7-1/2% preference allowed to local contractors in accordance with IDA's
guidelines. However, contracts for civil works costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in
accordance with procedures acceptable to IDA. Conditions of contract for the
construction of civil work and specifications will require to be modernized
and revised. Improved general conditions of contract, such as those proposed
by FIDIC, should be adopted as the basis for use in Sri Lanka and existing
specifications for works be reviewed and revised by Government, assisted by



- 23 -
the technical assistance team. It has been agreed that the form of contract
and specifications for works in a form acceptable to IDA will be finalized by
December 31, 1979 for contract works. Other construction and rehabilitation
works will be carried out under DOH procedures. Selection of consultants for
technical assistance will be in accordance with IDA'S "Guidelines for the Use
of Consul'ants."
H. Financing and Disbursements
3.22      The proposed credit of US$16.5 million will finance about 57% of
total project costs, that is, all foreign costs and about US$3.1 million of
local costs. The remaining local costs, amounting to about US$8.5 million
equivalent, plus taxes and duties of about US$3.75 million equivalent, would
be met by GOSL. GOSL has agreed that adequate and timely releases of funds
will be made in accordance with the implementation schedule for the successful
completion of the project and that any increase in the cost of the project,
foreign or local would be borne by GOSL. Disbursements from the proceeds of
the Credit account will be made on the following basis:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditure and 50% of local expenditures
for equipment, tools, spares and supplies and construction
materials;
(b) 100% of expenditure for technical assistance;and
(c) 100% of foreign costs or 75% of total costs for civil works
done by contractors.
Expenditures on technical assistance, subsequent to March 1, 1979 are to be
retroactively financed by IDA in the first year of the project and would
amount to, at maximum, US$140,000. Based on the Implementation Schedule
(World Bank Chart 19872), a Schedule of Estimated Disbursements (Table 9)
has been prepared.
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Sources of Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.01      The proposed project will stop and reverse the deterioration of the
road network. In the past, the road network has been steadily deteriorating
due to insufficient allocations for maintenance and improvements, and it has
now reached the stage at which many sections of road require rehabilitation
and improvement and maintenance work methods require reassessments. Further
deterioration of roads would result in serious transport capacity constraints



- 24 -
as the principal means of transport in the country is by road. The objectives
of the project (para 3.02) aim to facilitate the transport of goods and
passengers and reduce transport costs. The benefits of the project will
arise from:
(a)  improvement of the road surface and avoidance of further
deterioration as a result of road rehabilitation, plus
protection of the investment already made in roads;
(b) improvement of the road surface and reduction in main-
tenance costs as a result of improved routine main-
tenance;
(c) avoidance of bridge closures and possibly of catastrophic
accidents due to bridge failures, plus some reduced vehicle
operating costs as a result of bridge replacement and
repairs;
(d) improved periodic maintenance as a result of the proposed
demonstration district, leading to similar benefits to
those of (a) above;
(e) higher availability and utilization of equipment as a
result of provision and equipping of workshops; and
(f) improvement of DOH planning and management, as a result
of the technical assistance which will also ensure quicker
implementation, leading to earlier accrual of benefits.
The benefits arising from road and bridge rehabilitation and improved mainte-
nance (a) through (d) above have been estimated, although results must be
considered approximate in view of the lack of reliable historic data on costs,
traffic and economic parameters in Sri Lanka. Benefits from workshops and
technical assistance are more difficult to estimate although no less real.
Their costs have been added to other project costs but without ascribing any
direct benefits, when estimating rate of return of the project as a whole, on
the grounds that without them, project implementation would be less likely.
4.02      Since the trucking industry is important for distributing industrial
raw materials, collecting tree crops for exports and transporting imported
foodgrains, benefits from the project execution would be shared by the general
public. It is a characteristic of the population in Sri Lanka that all classes
are highly mobile and that the dominant mode of passenger transport is by SLCTB.
GOSL recognizes this fact and has endeavoured to keep bus fares dowrn to a level
that can be afforded by almost the entire population. Buses typically make up
about 25% of the total traffic flow, and to that extent, benefits in the form
of reduced vehicle operating costs accrue to SLCTB and hence to the population
in general. The emphasis in the road and bridge rehabilitation program is on
rural, rather than urban, routes, which have been selected on the basis of
highest relative priorities in all parts of the island in order to reach as



- 25 -
large a proportion of the population as possible and to increase economic
activity at the national level.
B. Costs and Benefits
4.03      Traffic volumes and growth on the road network are estimated on
the basis of traffic counts carried out in 1972 and 1975. Based on the above
counts, average daily traffic in 1978 on individual road sections are esti-
mated. Average traffic composition is assumed as 40% cars, 35% trucks and 25%
buses on the basis of DOH and mission's observation. Average annual traffic
growth is estimated at 7% based on anticipated economic growth and increased
availability of vehicles. Costs of construction and rehabilitation have been
estimated as outlined in para. 3.12. Although these costs are estimated net
of direct taxes and duties, unit costs used in the economic analysis have been
reduced by 10% to allow for the effects of indirect taxes. Vehicle operating
costs and savings are estimated on the assumption that as a result of road
rehabilitation and improved maintenance there will be no increase in speeds
and no change in fuel consumption, but only a reduction in costs of repairs
and tirewear due to improved surface condition. Benefits from the bridge re-
building program are estimated as the costs which will not be incurred if a
planned program of repair and replacement takes place rather than unplanned
replacement following closure or collapse of existing bridges. Analysis
methodology is outlined in Annex 3.
4.04      The road rehabilitation program covers 262 miles of road of which
112 miles would be rehabilitated and improved and further 150 miles would be
resealed or resurfaced in order to accomodate present and future traffic.
Traffic on road sections is 100-3,000 vpd depending upon the location. The
work would be carried out during the period from 1980-1982. Benefits would
be savings in transport costs from improved road conditions. Economic eval-
uation shows that the rehabilitation program would be well justified. Based
on a program period of four years and an economic life of 10 years, this
project component would yield economic returns of 15-86% for individual works
and a weighted average economic return of 29%.
4.05      The maintenance program consists of routine maintenance concentrat-
ing on the reduction in the amount of potholing and edge ravelling over roads
spread island-wide plus resealing and resurfacing. Assuming average traffic
flows on roads affected and an economic life of 10 years, this project com-
ponent would yield average economic returns of 40 to 56% for the various
components. The maintenance program would be well justified.
4.06      The bridge replacement program covers replacement or major repair
on about 30 bridges. The estimated cost of this component is Rs 47.6 million,
or an average of Rs 1.6 million per bridge. The alternative to replacing the
bridges in a planned manner is to wait until they collapse or have to be
closed, thus requiring traffic diversion involving an extra distance of, say,
20 miles prior to construction of temporary bridges (Bailey) for six months.
Assuming average traffic to be 400 vpd over these bridges, giving additional



- 26 -
vehicle operating cost of Rs 224,000 per bridge and that 10 of the 30 bridges
would collapse within the first three years, a further 10 within the next two
years and the remainder within five years after that (requiring stock of cor-
responding number of Bailey bridges for each year), the extra costs of the
Bailey bridges would amount to Rs 110,000 per bridge. In addition, it is
assumed that there is 10% chance with each bridge of a serious accident,
costing Rs 600,000 per accident, due to unexpected collapse. On this basis,
over a ten-year analysis period, the bridge replacement program would yield an
economic return of about 45%.
C. Conclusions
4.07      Overall economic evaluation incorporating costs of workshop equip-
ment and technical assistant components, to which no specific benefits have
been ascribed, shows implementation of all project component is well justified
and appropriately timed. The overall project rate of return is estimated at
36%. The economic returns for each major project component and their sensi-
tivity to variations in costs and benefits are shown below:
Internal Rates of Return (%)
15% Cost     15% Cost Increase
Component              Best Estimate      Increase      25% Benefit Decrease
Road Rehabilitation               29              25                  18
Maintenance operations
Routine                     56              50                   30
Resealing                   51              43                   34
Premix Carpet               40               32                  26
Bridges                           45              13                  -1
Weighted Average                  36              30                  21
4.08      The principal risks associated with the project execution concern
DOH's administrative caoabilitv and the nossihilitv of poor aualitv workman-
ship, especially with new methods, which would lead to failure or quicker than
estimated deterioration of new work, with consequent reductions in benefits.
Technical assistance has been planned to remove these risks as far as possible.
Errors in analysis may arise from incorrect assumptions of present average
daily traffic flows and cost estimates due to the scarcity of data. It is
intended to carry out traffic counts on all project roads and reassessment of
cost estimates in advance of major works to check that no serious overesti-
mates have been made. In view of the high sensitivity of the bridge component
to cost fluctuations, each structure will be subjected to reanalysis before
work is finally planned.



- 27 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal matters:
(a) Review DOH staffing, and provide IDA by December 31, 1979,
with a specific program and timetable for its strengthening,
and thereafter carry out the said plan (para 2.08);
(b) Preparation by December 31, 1982, of a five year highway
investment program acceptable to the Association (para 2.10);
(c) Preparation of a logical highway maintenance improvement
program by June 30, 1980, with agreed increased highway
maintenance funds (para 2.11);
(d) Disposal of all unserviceable DOH vehicles and equipment
which are beyond hope of economic repair by December 31,
1980 (para 3.07); and
(e) General conditions of contract and specifications to be
modernized, revised and agreed by December 31, 1979 (para
3.21);
(f) Timely release of funds to DOH for the project, and any
increases in cost to be borne by GOSL (para 3.22).
5.02      A condition of credit effectiveness will be that DOH will retain
the services of a technical assistance team (para 3.10).
5.03      The project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$16.5
million equivalent to GOSL.



- 28-                        ANNEX 1
Page 1
SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
I. Introduction and Background
1.        The Government of Sri Lanka intends to carry out a highway and
bridge maintenance and rehabilitation project of four years' duration. Appli-
cation has been made to the International Development Association (IDA) of
the World Bank for financial assistance with the project, and appraisal has
taken place. In order to assist implementation of the works planned under
the project, Government wishes to retain the services of properly qualified
and experienced consultants to carry out certain works, as described herein.
The principal components of the proposed IDA credit would be:
(i) rehabilitation and limited improvement of about 112 miles
of main roads and resealing or resurfacing of about a
further 150 miles;
(ii) improvement of routine and periodic highway maintenance;
(iii) strengthening, repair or replacement of about 30 bridges;
(iv) procurement of road maintenance and workshop equipment
and spares; and
(v) technical assistance.
The work to be done under such a project is distributed throughout the island
of Sri Lanka.
Terms of Reference for Consultancy Services
2.        Sri Lanka has had for a number of years a relatively extensive high-
way network, developed originally to serve the needs of the plantations and
to bring produce to the ports. The road system now totals about 15,500 miles,
of which about 11,200 miles are paved. There are also about a further 10,000
miles of road built and maintained by and for specific irrigation and estate
schemes. Most roads were built many years ago and have since had few im-
provements and until recently very limited maintenance. Hence, the roads are
characterized by narrow widths, sharp curves, steep gradients in parts, poor
sight distances and uneven surfaces. Many bridges are narrow and sometimes
their structural condition is poor. Although matters are now improving, the
present vehicle fleet is on the average old. Average traffic speeds are low
due to intense roadside development in many areas and to very mixed traffic
composition.



- 29 -                      ANNEX 1
Page 2
3.        Roads and bridges are built and maintained by the Department of
Highways (DOH) in the Ministry of Power and Highways. Recent reorganizations
have left DOH short of adequate professional staff and with the need to
re-establish a bridge construction section and a headquarters workshop,
spares supply and administrative organization to service the vehicle and
equipment fleet of DOH. Vehicles and equipment are in short supply, and the
fleet is mostly old, consisting of a variety of makes and models.
II. Objective and Scope of the Consultancy Services
4.        The objective of the consultancy services is to assist DOH with
implementation of the project. In order to attain this objective, the con-
sultants shall cooperate fully with Government in all respects and will
work with the counterparts to be provided by Government. Government will
also provide the data and services outlined in Section V hereof. The duties
of the consultants will include, but will not necessarily be limited to, the
work detailed in paragraphs 5 to 16 following.
5.        Review of contract documents and specifications for road works.
Contract documents and specifications for road works have been little used
in Sri Lanka for the past decade, and now require review and possible revi-
sion before road works can be carried out by private contractors. The con-
sultants are to examine existing contract documents and specifications and,
in agreement with DOH, prepare revised versions suitable for use under the
proposed project.
6.        Prequalification and review of contractors.  There has been no road
works carried out by private contractors recently, all work having been done
by the State organizations. However, there are a number of domestic firms
who previously had the ability to carry out civil engineering construction
works and who wish to do so again, given the opportunity. It is expected
that prequalification questionnaires will have been issued to interested
firms, and the consultant will be required to review the responses to the
questionnaires, advise on suitable prequalification criteria and suggest
measures (if necessary) that will be needed in order to revitalize the
domestic contracting industry.
7.        Assistance with bridge and pavement design.  The DOH bridge design
practices favor generally solid mass concrete abutments on caisson founda-
tions, usually with precast prestressed deck beams. There is the possibility
to revise design methods so as to produce more economical pier and abutment
designs and shorter construction periods. Soil subgrade testing is little
used at present, although there is a reasonably well equipped central soils
and materials laboratory near Colombo and enough equipment to set up a number
of smaller regional laboratories. The consultants will be expected to advise
the bridge design section on possible improved bridge design methods, organize
and assist in supervision of soil foundation testing bridge foundations and
pavement design, assist with commissioning of regional soils laboratories and
with the training of laboratory staff and assist with quality control during
construction.



-30-                        ANNEX 1
Page 3
8.        Vehicle and equipment procurement.  The proposed project will
include a component for the procurement of vehicles, construction and road
maintenance plant, workshop equipment and spares. At present, DOH does not
have a fully equipped central workshop to support its regional workshops, and
the proposed project will equip such a central workshop and set up a stores
and administrative organization within DOH to service the fleet. The consul-
tants will advise DOH on details of the appropriate vehicles and equipment
to be procured, compile specifications for supply, advise on suitable spares
holdings and procurement, prepare invitations to bid and advise on the evalua-
tion of bids received.
9.        Improvement of workshop facilities.  As well as equipping the
central workshops, it is intended to construct and equip a smaller regional
workshop to service the proposed demonstration road maintenance district.
The consultants will advise and assist DOH in the design of the regional
workshop, assist with the installation and commissioning of the equipment
procured, advise on the organization of workshop and stores procedures and
implement a suitable staff training program.
10.       Preparation of road rehabilitation contracts.  After consideration
of contractors' prequalifications, the consultants will advise on suitable
sizes of contract lots for bidding, review designs, finalize contract doc-
uments and specifications, produce invitations to bid and advise on the
evaluation of bids received. In the event that there is insufficient response
from contractors, domestic or overseas, the consultants may be asked to advise
and assist with suitable alternative methods to carry out the work necessary
and to suggest resources necessary to do this. The consultants will advise on
contract supervision and monitoring of progress of the works.
11.       Assistance with force account work.  A portion of the road and
bridge rehabilitation program will be carried out by force account. The road
work will consist mainly of improvement to drainage, provision of additional
base and surfacing.  Although DOH has experience of this type of work, the
consultants will be required to review designs and assist with the organiza-
tion and management of the works, to include the improvement of work methods
and use of mechanical equipment, detailed pavement design procedures and
introduction of effective quality control. In the bridge rehabilitation
program, the consultants will be required to review designs, including giving
advice on the techniques of piled foundations, assist with organization and
supervision of construction and assist in setting up and operating a new
casting yard to produce spun pipes and precast, prestressed bridge beams.
12.       Planning and organization of a demonstration road maintenance dis-
trict. The proposed project would includes a component setting up and equip-
ping one district to carry out periodic maintenance (resealing and resurfac-
ing) in a satisfactory manner, this district to act as a training focus from
which improved periodic work methods can spread to other districts. It is
also intended to introduce better work methods in routine maintenance through-
out the island to the extent of providing equipment to allow proper repair
of potholes and local failed areas, probably using bituminous emulsion in
place of straight bitumen. The consultants will be required to advise on



, I ZA
- 31 -                       Page  4
the organization and setting up of these operations, suitable specifications,
the scale and types of equipment to be procured, and suitable training methods
to reach all levels of the labor force, and to assist in the general implemen-
tation of the program.
13.       Assistance with highway investment planning and maintenance plan-
ning. The consultants will be required to assist with preparat-in of a
highway investment program. The program will probably cover a five year
period and is to be prepared by December 1982. The consultants will also
be required to assist DOH to prepare, by June 1980, a logical highway main-
tenance improvement plan, including cost estimates, which will be designed
to bring highway maintenance in Sri Lanka to reasonable levels within a period
of five years.
14.       Improvement to DOH planning capabilities.  Although a planning
section exists in DOH, there have been very few traffic surveys carried out
recently, and data for analysis of projects is scanty. The consultants will
advise and assist DOH to improve their traffic counting program, to carry out
traffic surveys for specific projects where necessary (including those pro-
posed for this project), to collect reliable cost and economic data relevant
to highway projects and to analyze suggested projects as a means to improve
overall highway planning. The consultants will assist DOH in the development
of costing and cost control procedures for use in budget preparation, estimat-
ing and economic analysis.
15.       Review of regulations affecting highways.  Movement of traffic on
many roads in Sri Lanka is hindered by encroachment on the right-of-way
and by many aspects of traffic behavior. The consultants will be prepared
to assess the present legislation affecting highways and highway traffic and
make suitable suggestions for its amendment or for improved enforcement.
16.       Assistance with progress and completion reports.  The consultants
will assist DOH with the production of progress and completion reports in
respect of the project. These reports will be designed to monitor the engi-
neering, economic, and environmental effects of the works performed, and the
consultants will assist in the evaluation of these effects.
III. The Project Team
17.       It is expected that the project team will include the following:
(i) Team Leader who will be an experienced professional highway
engineer with a wide knowledge of highway planning, design,
construction and maintenance under conditions similar to those
found in Sri Lanka. He should have experience of setting up
and running a highway organization and be familiar with
general administrative and financial procedures;



- 32-                        ANNEX 1
Page 5
(ii) Mechanical Engineer who will have sound professional training
and will have had experience of organizing and running mechan-
ical equipment workshops under conditions similar to those found
in Sri Lanka. He should have also had experience in equipment
procurement so as to be able to advise on suitable specifica-
tions for new plant and equipment to be procured. He should
have had some experience of training mechanics and operators
under working conditions;
(iii) Mechanical Superintendent to assist the mechanical engineer
in the setting up and operation of the workshops and spares
control systems. He should be experienced in work of a
similar nature and have a background of workshop organization
and administration dealing with vehicles and heavy equipment;
(iv) Highway Maintenance Engineer who will be professionally qual-
ified engineer having sound experience of the organization and
operation of highway maintenance under tropical conditions.
As an important part of his work will deal with training and
the introduction of new methods to the work force, he should
have had experience of and an interest in education and train-
ing, especially in-service training of middle- and lower-level
management. He will be responsible for the introduction of
suitable training methods, with training aids as necessary,
to spread knowlege of new work methods to highway maintenance
staff throughout Sri Lanka.
(v) Pavement and Bridge Design Engineer who will assist and advise
with the introduction of more effective materials testing as
an aid to pavement and bridge foundation design, advise on
bridge foundation and pavement design procedures, and maintain
correct quality control throughout construction. He should
have had experiecne in the organization and running of materials
laboratories under tropical conditions and also have had prac-
tical experience of pavement design and highway and bridge
construction methods;
(vi) Contracts Engineer who will be required to advise on necessary
revisions to the Pyiting c,nftrnet dner,mpTntq snd  ,npci fcations
for works to be done under the contract, and later to assist
and advise DOH Chief Engineers, who will supervise contract
works, in the running and control of these works.  He should
have had experience in drafting contract documents for works
of a similar nature and have been engaged in contract super-
vision under conditions similar to those in Sri Lanka. It
may be possible to combine these activities with those of
the pavement and bridge design engineer or of the team
leader if these members of the team are suitably qualified.



33A                        ANNEX 1
Page 6
(vii)  Management and Accounting Specialist who will probably be
locally recruited. He should be professionally qualified
and be familiar with local accounting and managerial pro-
cedures both within and outside Government. He will be
required to suggest suitable means to improve and simplify
coi:trol of works progress and costs so that causes of
delays can be quickly identified and cost data become
available in time to highlight possible cost overruns
and for use in compiling budget estimates.
18.       The consultancy services are expected to cover a period of about
four years overall, but all team members will not be required for the entire
period, total coverage being in the region of 180 manmonths. The consultants
should plan to replace their services with those of local staff as quickly
as possible, consistent with effective project implementation, and should be
prepared to revise their coverage accordingly, whenever, after consultation
with DOH, it is decided that DOH staff are able to undertake the work. The
consultants' staff will be expected to operate full time on the project
while they are in Sri Lanka.
IV. Reports
19.       Progress reports (10 copies to Government, 4 copies to IDA) will
be submitted at monthly intervais, covering the previous month's activities.
These progress reports will be kept short and factual, highlighting the
progress made and difficulties encountered in the various parts of the assign-
ment detailed in Section II hereof. At the end of the third month, the pro-
gress report will include a summary of the assignment to date, a review of
any unexpected difficulties met and suggestions for any changes considered
desirable in the terms of reference or the work program as previously planned.
At the conclusion of the assignment, the consultants will submit a brief
final report outlining the progress made and making suggestions for any future
technical assistance program.
V. Data, Local Services and Facilities to be Provided by the Government
20.       The Government will provide the consultants with all available data
and information held by DOH and considered necessary for the consultants' work.
DOH will also use their best endeavors to obtain data held by other organiza-
tions, whether Government or not, which it is considered necessary and desir-
able for the consultants to use.
21.       The Government will assign a full time project coordinator to liaise
between the Government and consultants, and will assign counterpart staff to
work with the consultants' team as possible and necessary.



ANNEX 1
- 34 -                    Page  7
22.       The Government is to provide the following facilities to enable the
consultants to carry out the assignment:
(i) suitably furnished office accommodations including utilities
and a telephone, but consultants will be expected to provide
office equipment and supplies; and
(ii) office support staff, but not including an office manager
or accountant.
The Government will assist and guide the consultants in locating satisfactory
and appropriate living accommodations for their staff.



35                         ANNEX 2
SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Project Reporting Requirements
1.        At the conclusion of each three month period, the Government will
prepare a progress report covering the work done on each of the components of
the project to date and detailing actual and anticipated progress, actual and
estimated costs for the work completed and disbursements from the credit com-
pared with those estimated in Table 9 of the appraisal report. The report
will highlight causes for delays, if any, with measures proposed to overcome
them, and it will anticipate any changes that appear to be necessary in the
project competion date, the credit closing date or the project costs. The
reports will also include the results of traffic counts and pavement and soils
surveys taken to confirm designs and design estimates and economic evaluation,
and will detail any changes in design, cost estimates or economic evaluation
that result. Details will be given of plant, vehicles and equipment that has
been ordered or received during the reporting period, with reasons for any
changes that have been made in the project estimates of items to be ordered,
and data will be given on the location, utilization and availability of
vehicles and equipment supplied under the project. Two copies of the quarterly
report will be sent to IDA through the Bank's office in Colombo within six
weeks of the end of each reporting period.
2.        Within six months of the completion of the project, Government
will submit to the Association, a Project Completion Report on the execution
and initial operation of the project, its costs and the benefits derived
or expected to be derived from it, an assessment of the performance by
Government and by the Association of their respective obligations under
the Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purpose of the credit.
Details of the contents and requirements of the Project Completion Report
will be discussed and agreed during negotiations.



ANNEX 3
Page  1
SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Methodology Used in Economic Analysis
1.        In carrying out analyses, the following assumptions were used:
(a) Average traffic composition is 25% buses, 35% trucks and
40% cars, with a uniform 7% per annum growth rate;
(b) Cost of the average car is SLRs 75,000 and average age is
80,000 km; cost of the average truck is SLRs 166,000 and
average age is 250,000 km; cost of the average bus is
SLRs 200,000 and average age is 400,000 km;
(c) After resealing and pothole repairs, the surface roughness
'r' 1/ will reduce to and remain at 2,400 mms/km. If work
is not done, it is assumed that 'r' will rise to 5,000 mms/km,
with an average value of 4,000 mm/km;
(d) After addition of new base, there will similarly be a reduc-
tion from an average 'r' of 7,000 mms/km to 2,400 mms/km;
(e) Use of a premix carpet in place of double bituminous surface
treatment (DBST) will reduce the 'r' value to 2,000 mms/km
in either case;
(f) Resealing will be necessary after 500,000 vehicles or seven
years life, whichever is less;
(g) The maintenance operations proposed will cause no increase
in average speeds. Benefits will accrue only from reductions
in costs of parts and labor used in maintenance and in tire
wear, as estimated from UK TRRL LR 723, Tables 41 through
48; and
(h) Benefits will be the same for all road widths; cost will
differ according to road width.
1/   'r' is a measure of the total vertical movement of a standard wheel
relative to its frame when towed at 30 Kph over a section of road.
The values given here are typical for the conditions described. Metric
units are used to correspond with UK Transport and Road Research Labora-
tory (TRRL) publications.



ANNEX 3
Page 2
2.         On these assumptions, the following tables are calculated:
Changes in Vehicle Operating Costs with Surface Roughness
(in SLRs Per Mile)
'rl             Parts                  Labor                  Tires
Cars   (Rs 75,000 New Cost)         (@ Rs 4/hr)           (@ Rs 1,200)
2,000           1.26                   0.873                   0.033
2,400           1.84                   1.190                   0.056
4,000           4.14                    2.229                  0.149
7,000           8.46                   3.239                  0.323
Trucks (Rs 166,000 New Cost)         (@ Rs 4/hr)          (@ Rs 1,600)
2,000           3.05                   8.60                    0.105
2,400           3.42                   9.52                    0.110
4,000           4.90                  13.05                    0.128
7,000           7.68                  19.24                   0.161
Buses (Rs 200,000 New Cost)          (@ Rs 4/hr)           (@ Rs 1,600)
2,000           0.34                   0.83                    0.105
2,400           0.52                   1.19                   0.110
4,000           1.09                   2.55                    0.128
7,000           2.23                   4.85                   0.161
Whence:
For Resealing ('r' 4,000 to 2,400)
Benefit for Average Vehicle = 0.25 x 0.148 + 0.35 x 0.284 + 0.40 x 0.289 =
Ks 0.406 per mile
For Extra Base with DBST ('r' 7,000 - 2,400)
Benefit for Average Vehicle = 0.25 x 0.438 + 0.35 x 0.828 + 0.40 x 0.899 =
Rs 1.214 per mile
For Extra Base with Premix Carpet ('r' 7,000 to 2,000)
Benefit for Average Vehicle = 0.25 x 0.486 + 0.35 x 0.910 + 0.40 x 0.980 =
Rs 1.331 per mile
Hence, for various widths and operations, the following are derived,
all costs and benefits in SLRs 1,000s:
Reseal and Repair Potholes ('r' 4,000 to 2,400): Annual benefits at
Rs 148.2 per mile for each vehicle per day of average traffic, with
7% annual traffic growth:



- 38 -                       ANNEX 3
Page 3
Capital               Benefits at Vehicles per Day (vpd)
Year  Cost per mile             50   100   200   300   400    600
0   12' wide:  47.52
16' wide:  63.36
18' wide:  71.28
22' wide:  87.12
1                           7.41 14.82 29.64 44.46  59.28 88.92
2                           7.93 15.86 31.72 47.58  63.44 95.16 *Allow cost of
first reseal
3                           8.48 16.97 33.94 50.91  67.88 101.82
4                           9.08 18.16 36.32 54.48  72.64  08.96MAllow cost of
second reseal
5                            9.72 19.43 38.86 58.29  77.72 116.58 Allow cost of
6                           10.40 20.79 41.58 62.3   83.16  24.74)pthird reseal
7                           11.12 22.24 44.48 66.72  88.96 133.44 Allow cost of
8                     -     11.90-23.80'47.60 71.40 -95.20  42.80fourth reseal
9                           12.73 25.46 50.92 76.38 101.84 152.76
10                           13.63 27.25 54.50 81.75 109.00  63.50
Residual Value:  (as          50%   50%   50%    0%    50%        0%
percent of capital cost)
Internal Rate of Return:
12' wide                 7.5 t 32.2  67.8  98.9  127.0  168.1
16' wide             negative 20.9  50.8  74.2   93.0  125.5
18' wide             negative 16.5  44.8  65.8   82.4  111.5
22' wide             negative  9.1  35.5  53.0   65.5   91.5
non-viable       viable
No annual routine maintenance costs are included, as it is estimated they
will be similar with and without the operation.
Similarly, for other operations over a 10-year analysis period,
internal rates of return for various road widths are estimated as follows
(in percent):
Provide 4" Stone Base and DBST with Shoulder Improvement
Cost (Rs 1,000/mile)          100       200       300      400 vpd
12' wide 237.6              15.7     41.6      57.2      79.7
16' wide 291.6              10.1      33.5     46.2      65.1
18' wide 317.6               7.9     30.5      42.2      59.8
22' wide 372.6               3.9      25.1     35.2      50.7
24' wide 398.7               2.3      23.0     32.6      47.1



ANNEX 3
-39 -
Page  4
Provide 4" Stone Base and Premix Surface with Shoulder Improvement
Cost (Rs 1,000/mile)   vpd:  100    200   400   1,000   1,500  3,000
12' wide Rs 556               5.4   18.5   39.7   94.2   138.0    369
16' wide Rs 686               1.9   13.6   32.0   77.4   113.1    219
18' wide Rs 748               0.6   11.7   29.2   71.3   104.2    202
22' wide Rs 882               -ve    8.4   24.2   61.2    89.3    172
24' wide Rs 945               -ve    7.1   22.3   57.3    83.8    161
Taking weighted averages for the components of the various operations in
the road sections proposed for rehabilitation (weighted according to cost),
the Internal Rates of Return for the different sections, shown as Map 14040,
are:
Road Section No.         IRR (%)
(from Table 4)
1                     38
2                     13
3                     38
4                     66
5                     77
6                     58
7              (depends on design
and alignment)
The weighted average of all rehabilitation sections is estimated at 29%.
For routine maintenance, repair of potholes and edge ravelling is
estimated to reduce surface roughness from 4,000 to 2,400 mms/km. Average
traffic on all rural roads is assumed at 100 vpd. With a total cost of
US$3.2 million for this component, the estimated rate of return is 56%.
Costs and benefits for the proposed bridge repair program are
estimated as outlined in para 4.06 of the appraisal report, and the economic
analysis is as follows, giving an estimated IRR of 45%:



- 40                           ANNEX 3
Page 5
Erection
Planned     Bailey Bridge       &         Traffic      Bridge     Total
Program   Capital   Maint.  Accident   Diversion  Rebuilding   Cash
Year     Costs      Cost       Cost      Cost         Cost       Cost       Flow
(1)      (2)       (3)        (4)      (5)          (6)         (7)         (8)
1       15.7       13.6       0.4     0.28         0.75        6.20       +5.53
2       20                    0.4     0.28         0.75        6.20      -12.65
3       20                    0.4     0.28         0.75        6.20      -12.65
4                   6.8       0.6     0.37         1.12        7.48       16.33
5                             0.6     0.37         1.12        7.48        9.53
6                  -5.44 /a  0.4      0.28         0.75        6.20        2.19
7                             0.4     0.28         0.75        6.20        5,63
8                             0.4     0.28         0.75        6.20        5.63
Q                             n AL    n.8 93 05                6.20        5.63
10                  -3.00 /a  0.4      0.28         0.75        6.20        1.84
New or Repaired Bridge Residual Values
(difference +85% - 90%)                                  -2.79
Net Present Value at 10% discount rate = Rs 13 million
1. R. R. = 45%
Coloums (3) - (7) represent costs avoided by undertaking the
planned program of bridge repair and replacement.
/a   Residual Value of Bailey Bridging.



ANNEX 3
- 41 -                      Page  6
Whence, weighted rate of return for the whole project is as follows:
Rehabiliation         : IRR                   29%  *cost:  US$7.1 million
Improved maintenance : IRR                    56%   cost:  US$4.9 million
Bridge program        : IRR                   45%   cost:  US$4.6 million
Equipment             : No direct benefits
ascribed                 cost:  US$1.05 million
Technical Assistance : No direct benefits
ascribed                 cost:  US$1.55 million
US$19.2 million
Weighted average IRR for project = 36%
*From Table 7.



- 42 -                        ANNEX 4
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Report of a Bank
Transportation Mission, November 1966
Wilbur Smith and Associates, Ceylon Traffic and Planning Study, 1966
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Appraisal of a
Highway Project: Ceylon, October 1, 1968
Wilbur Smith and Associates, Ceylon Highway Planning and Maintenance
Study, April 1969
United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, Report of
The ECAFE Transport and Communications Group Mission to Ceylon,
October-December 1971
Central Bank of Ceylon, Annual Report for the Year 1974, April 30, 1975
Government of Sri Lanka, Ministry of Irrigation, Power and Highways,
Progress 1970-75, November 27, 1975
Trimac, Sri Lanka Railway Assessment Study, 1976
Government of Sri Lanka, Department of Highways, Analysis of Rates and
Highway Schedule of Rates, 1978
Government of Sri Lanka, Department of Highways, New Highway Project 1979-81
Project Report, 1978
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Development of
Sri Laka, Issues and Prospects, 1978



Table 1
- 43 -
SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Classification of Roads Maintained by DOH
Length of Road (miles)
Class           Description           1961      1967      1971      1976      1977     1978
A.        National Roads            1,850    2,178    2.201    2,221    2,211    2,427
B.        Provincial Roads          2,412    2,957    3,100    3,241    3,218    3,026
C.    /1  District Roads            3,905    4,236    4,488    5,698    5,776    6,121
D.    /1  Access Roads              2,556    3,054    2,972    4,357 /2 4,257    3,458
E.    /1  Minor Access Roads           853      545       590       878    1,213   L2 447
TOTAL                   11,576   12,970   13,351   16,395   16,675   15,479
Source: DOH
Note: /1 Improvement funds for road classes C, D, and E. are channeled through
district ministers.
/2 Some class D and E roads handed back to the Irrigation Department
for maintenance in 1977 and 1978.
March 1979



SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAI1tTENANCE PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Statistics
YEAR      CARS       BtlSES      LORRIES       MOTORCYCLES       TRACTORS 1/        TRAILERS 1!    OTHER           TOTAL
1965      82,466      8,051.    30,497         17,516             7,293              2,686            251         148,760
1970      87,h82    10,433       37,264        20,239            14,243              6,594            354         176,792
1975      91,728    12.815       38,593        22,773            19,900              8,742            421         194,972
1976      93,769    13,142       38,845        23,384            20,930              9,156            434         199,660
1977      97,060    14,123       39,729        24,435            22,450              9,834            445         208,076
1978(Jul.y)99,979    14,598      41,700        26,636            24,138             10,406            450         217,907
ComposLtton of Total Fleet                    1.ight Veliicles                              Heavy Vehicles
(buses & trucks)
1950                                    61%                                            39%
1960                                    71%                                            29%
1970                                    64%                                            36%
1977                                    64%                                            36%
I/ These are for agricultural use.                                                                                    m
Source:  Commissioner of Motor Vehicles
January 1.979



- 45 -                                Table 3
SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Highway Expenditures
1972-77 and Estimates for 1978-79 (millions of S.L.Rs)
General       Capital /1        Research and           Expenditure on
Year    Administration   Expenditure    Laboratory Services    Maintenance /2   Total
1972        14.97            24.51             0.18                    54.17         93.82
1973        10.81            75.39             0.37                    34.63        121.20
1974        12.45            46.30             0.44                    43.81        103.00
1975        14.05            81.71             0.46                    49.71        145.93
1976        14.79           114.54             0.46                    50.03        179.82
1977        15.27           100.36             0.60                    55.52        171.76
1978        15.75            80.41             0.69                    56.05        153.09 /3
(Estimated)
Approved      17.28           113.50             0.76                    63.85        195.39
Source:  Estimates of Revenue and Expenditure
Notes:   /1  Includes new work and improvements for roads and bridges on
Class A and B roads.
/2 Includes maintenance on all DOH maintained roads, Class A - E
/3 In addition, an estimated Rs6O.07 million will be spent on work for
district ministers from decentralized budget funds.
March 1979



- 46 -
SRI LANKA
A  ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
FABLE 4
SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED ROAD REHABILITATION AND MAINTENANCE WORK
1. ROAD REEANILITAI'ON
Prio,rity         Location                     Description of Works                        3 ymMt        Estimated Cost         (Rs Millions)              Estimated Coot of
Xiiii)    3V  Cooltract               By DOH            Major MoLoriailI   ,     bcr
1.       PuttEali  District
Roote A3, Mile 46      Reconstrect approx. 10 nile  of -oistieg road
to Puttal1n            where serioc ly sobstaodard or failed to givo
22' roodcay on 32' f-rmation, 6" stone booe oner
e-isting road as sob-base & DBST sorface. Minor          If              12.8
alignoent improvement on soon coVes affects about
2D cc lefgth. Soil and pavement ser-eys in progress.
Cootract docanents to be prepared by tochnical
assistan-e.
2.       P1onoa.r..e District
i)Rfo.te A.11, Hab.rana  Widen foroation to 24'  hebre necessary.  Provide
to nile 47             6" steno  base over noiating 16' wide roadnay
with DBST sorface 00er 12 oil.o; einor relign-           32                                     7.3                      2.2             4.5
ment on iioleted bends. Patcbh ad res.al remainin
20 nii-. Soil and pavenont sorvoy in pro.eese.
cii)focte A.ii, nile 47   faiso road appron. 6' throughout(above avrage
to 50  Maoampitiya    ilood Ieoais)to giVo 24' formation end 22'
prenix sueface.  Provide siope protection and
approeinateiy  2,000 ft of standard bridginE to           3              35.4
take Mahae-i flood -eter-. Inveetigation &
designs to be done by DOH and technical asIsE-
tencc   oinclding possible inprovement of coin
Mbahaeli crqfOing.  Work conmenciig Year 2.
3.       Nuwara Eliya District
Roote A. 7 Aviss.      Add 6" of stone base over eoistinf panennt,
_ella-_Htton-Nuwaraoideoingebernecossary to give 20' roadnay
Eiiya Road miles       minimom 00 28' formation.  Miner realig9sents              0                                   5.6                      1.S             3.4
:4-78 t 106-111        tc improve visibility. Provide DbST sorface.
Soil and pa-ement sorney in progress
4.       Ratoopora District
Roote A.4 P. lmadulia  Provide extra 4" stone base over approx. 8
to Beragalla           miles with DBST sorfare.  Patch and reseal
26 oilee.  Provide approx 2000' of oasonry               34                                    6.0                      2.0             3.b
reteining calls.  Soil and peveonotf  .rey
-nd retaining wall dosigo to be no,plEted doe-
fog Year 1  cork to comence in Year 2.
;.   n-d K iotrict
ci)A.S. Peradeniya to    Raise rood by provision of extra 6" stooe
Ga-pola RDyd Mile      base over eointiog panvemt  wide.i.g to
4 - 13                 22' roadwey whero possible.  Provide 2"
previx ourface thIroghout.  P-xevemt and   -              9               !0.2
soil sorneys a-d desigo to be coopleted by
*J0 and technical assistance in Y-sr I for
work commeoncemeot in Year 2.
6.       Kaody District
A. I Colombo-KRady   Gie-re1 betteement end pavement strengthen-
food, Kacdoganno. o    ing over  pprvo. 5 nile  to enoe grades and
area                   inmprone nisibility.  Detailed denign to be                5               5.0
carried ouc during the project for comple-
tion during possible fotere project. Allow
for prelivinery orks
7.       Galle Dintrict
Colohbo-Galle Rd.       onestigece poosible reeligomno  of aboet 10
Bentota by-paso        nile- to avoid confe6ted orban area; 24' road-
way aith 8N' sboldern.  Reconstrc tion of
major bridge included io bridge schedole.
Allo- for land acqoisition, minor bridges &               10               6.4                 4.0 (Laod Acqoicitc-)
occeos roods                                           -E-- t29.R                             22.9                      5.7            11.5
11.  iMPROVEP PERIODIC              (:olombo and Kalet.ra Districts)
MAINTENA1ICE                  Renea1 roads after repair of local failoren.            120                                    8.4                      3.1             5.1
Provide premix carpet  hebre o-rranted by
traffic floes                                            30                                   17.5                     5.4            10.7
ill.  IMPROVED ROUTINE               (All Dintrictn)
MAINTENANCE                  S       itti     i     p      %    d
Systematic re pair of pooboles and edge
ravelling and c     _rfaee faileren using
bituninoos emolnion and equipment nupplied
ooder the project.                                                                            28.0                      9.0            17.1
Tot.ls for contract eork, enrials and labor carried to Table 7, Items I & 11                  150                                  53.9                     17.50           32.9 _
March 1979



- 47 -
TABLE S
SRI LMIRA
ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF PROPOSED BRIDGE WORK
Priority       Location         Decription of Work        Estimated Cost        Remarks
(R isiJlliose)
1.     Colombo Galle Rd.    Replace existeng steel                      Design complete.
Bridge 69/3         span 6 madonry abutments        1.1        Constr. by DOH
& widen
2.     Udugaea-Hinidusa      Replace existing 5x23'         1.8         Design complete.
Rd. Bridge 614       steel bridge with snb-                     Constr. by DON
mersible structure
3.     Kandy-Jaffna Rd.      Replace & viden existing       1.0         Design complete.
Bridge 74/2         15' wide corroded struc-                   Conntr. by DON
ture
4.     Ratnapura-            Replace A relocate 3 span                  Design complete.
KErawita Rd.        bridge, sive northuardo         1.8         Construction
Bridge 6/5          to improve spproaches                      planned for SDCC
5.     Pssedurs-Ratna-       Reconstroct 6 Widen            1.0         Design complete.
pure Rd. Bridge     bridge A allow for over-                    Constr. by DOH
4017                topping during floodn
6.     Colombo-Kandy Rd.    Provide new perched abut-                   Design complete.
Bridge 48/8         sects A 60-65' npan             1.1         Constr. by DOH
7.     C.R.W.B. Road         Reconstruct existing           2.7         Design complete.
Bridge 148/7        narrow bridge                               Constr. by DOH
8.     C.R.W.B. Road         Reconstruct existing           3.4         Design complete.
Bridge 235/5        badly corroded bridge                      Constr. by DOH
9.     Kombueuoitiya-        Reconstract collapsed          0.6         Design complete.
Mulstiyama Rd.      bridge spans.                               Constr. by DOB
Bridge 3113
10.- 14.Ddugsma-Hinidsma      Replace five oub-              6.0         Design to be completed
Rd. Bridges 2/5,    standard bridges                           by DOE. Constr. by
2/14, 5/3, 6/8                                                 Contcset.
A 24/11
15.     C.R.W.B. Road         Replace existing two-          1.2         Design to be con-
Bridge 171/2        sps.  bridge A widen                       ploted by DON.
Co..tr. by DON
16-17. Colombo-Galle Rd.   Etisting major bridge                         Design to be com-
Bridges 39/3 6      badly corroded.  Pos-                       pleted by DOE.
39/4                sible sew aligoment to         14.5        Con..t. by Contract.
be investigated
18.     C.R.W.B. Road         Replace emisting               0.7         Design to be coo-
Bridge 30/2         narrow bridge                              pletod by DON.
Constr. by DO0
19.     Mtadawachchlya-       intend causeway 5 pro-         3.5         Design to be completed
Manoer Rd.          vide 130' central                           by DOH. Corstr.
Bridge 147/3        sp..                                       by Contract.
20.     Teunek-ambuc-         Replace existing               0.7         Design in pc-gr-e..
2 Weradantota Rd.    bridge                                    Construction by
Bridge 17/13                                                   Contract.
21.     ColoG bo-Kandy Rd.    Replace existing                           Design alnont co
Bridge at           bridge                          2.0        piote.  Conntr. by
Nanuoya                                                        Contract.
22.     Kadudannawa-          Replace existing                           Design almost con-
Kanikdiwala Rd.     bridge                          1.5        ploete.  Constr. by
Contract.
23.     Negeobo-Giriulla      Replace ecisting                           Design in prngrecc.
Rd. Dridgo at       bridge                          1.0        Construction by
Negeobo over                                                   Contract.
Dutch canal
24.     Nogambo-Voyandeda    Replace existing                            Denign in progress.
Rd. Bcidge 13/5     bridge                          0.9        Coonst. by Contract.
25-28. Rajswola-Madawela    Widen and re-dack                           Design to be done by
Rd. Bridges 7/9,    eaisting bridges                0.5        DOH before contte.
8/2, 9/7, 12/7                                                 by Contract.
29, 30. Kurunegla-            Replaen ecisti,g                          Design to be done by
Narummela Rd.       brLdges                         0.6        DO. Constr. by
Bridges 33/2                                                   Contract
end 33/3
Total            Rs      47.6 million
By DOH:         14.6
By Co-tract:    33.0
47.6
Contract cost carried to Table 7, Item III.
DOB materials end lubor cens. estimated an percentage of total cost; =aterials
costs to be verified froe denign Bills of Quantities when conpleted.
Marbh 1979



- 48 -
SRI LANEA                                                                                          TABLE 6
A ROAD i4AINTENANCE PROJECT
Schedule of Plant and Equipment
No.          Unit c.i.f.
Item No.                Dee.riptie-                     Required            Price          Totat Cost      Cost of Spares         Remarks
US$             UE$                US$
Foreign cost
1.         For Road Rehabilitetia-
1.         lOt/hr primary crushers                          2              61,500          123,000             20,900             Equipment                       1,074,800
2.         7t/hr granulatore                                5              22,400          112,000             19,040             Initial spares stock  (17%)    182i 750
3.         6,000 litre bitumem preheater                    2              43,700           87,400             14,860                                             1,257,550
4.         6,000 litre bitumen distributor and heater  2                    59,300         110,600             20,160                   Local
5.         4-10t self-propelled p.eumatic rollers           2              22,000           44,000              7,500             Local Fqoip-mit costs (5;:)         63,900
6.         8-10t steel wheeled tandem rollers               6              45,000-         270,000             45,900             Tools @ 2% of works cost            24,000
7.         7t dump tru,ck                                  12              21,400          256,800             43,670                                                 87.900
8.         Chip spreaders, tail mounted                     6               4,500           27,000              4,600
9.         3/4t pick-up trucks                              4               9,000           36.000              6.120
1.074.800            182.750
II.         Improved Maintenance
For Improved Routime Mbintenance
10.         Emclsion sprayers                               76                  560          42,560              7,240                  Foreign costs
11.         Vibrating plate compactors                      76                2,250         171,000             29,070             Equipment                       1,322,060
12.         7t/hr granulators                               12              22,500          270,000             45,900             Initial spares                    224,750
13.         3/4t pick-up trucks                             20                9,000         180,000             30,600                                             1,546,810
14,         10t/hr primary crushers                          2              61,500          123,000             20.900                  Local
786,560           133,710              Local equipment costs              77,300
For Demonstration Distiict                                                                                             Tools @ 2% sf wo,-'s cost          b8.240
Periodic Mlaintenance                                                                                                                                    145,540
1I.         lOt/hr asphalt mixer                             1               61,600          61,600             10,470
16.         Asphalt paver                                    1               56,000          56,000              9,520
17.         6,000 litre bitumen pr-heater                    1              43,700           43,700              7,430
180         6,000 litre bitumen distributor and heater  1                    59,300          59,300             10,080
19.         4-10t self-propelled pneumatic roller            1               22,500          22,500              3,830
20.         Self-propelled chip spreader and compactor  1                    56,000          56,000              9,520
21.         7t   dump truck                                  6               21,400         128,400             21,830
22.         3/4t. pick-up truck                              2                9,000          18,000              3,060
23.         8-lOt steel-wheeled tar iem rollers              2              45,000           90.000             15i300
535,500             91,040
Ill.        FPr DCOH Bridge  Section
24.         Pipc spinner and goolds up to 72"0               2              67,200          134,400             22,850                  Foreign costs
25.         20t/hr concrete batch ylant                      2              89,500          179,000             30,430             Equipment                       1,080,000
26.         3 c.y. mobile concrete mimer                    16               19,200         307,200             52,200             Initial spares                    167740
27,         1 c.y. dumper                                   16                5,600          89,600             15,230                                             1,247,740
28.         Piling  frame and crane (lOt) self-propel   2                    78,500         157,000             26,700                   Local
29.         Pile hammers                                     2               39,500          79,000             13,430             Local                              62,400
30.         Air compressor (towed) 200 cfo                   2               20,300          40,600              6,900             Tools 4 4% of cost                 18,500
31.         Low bed trailer and trrtcor                      1               59,000          59,000             10,000                                                80,900
32.         Boring equipment                                 1               35,000          35,000              6.000
1,080,000            167,740
IV.         Workshop Equipment
(Angulana and Kalutara - Colombo District)
33.         Tools and equipment                                                             314,700                                Foreign costs                     391,700
34.         Racks and storage bins                                                           49,400                                Local costs                        19,600
35.         Installation and services                                                        27.600
391,700
Nlte:  Consumablo materials such as welding materials,
lubricants, drill steels and crusher jaws
are included under the Sitres and Supplies item.
This item also includes US$200,000 to restock
the spare parts store.
Maarch 1979
Surce:  0OH and mission estimates



SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Pr-oect Costs
Equipment & Tools        'pares & Zupnlies                Materials               Local Staff        Technical Assistance        Contracts Works              Sub-Total
1.  Roa, Rehabilitation          Local Fore. Total        local Fore. Total        Local Fore. Total         L,cal Fore. Total        Local Fore. Total         Local Fore. Total        Local Fore. Total
tlSS                         0.09   1.26  1.35        (.01   0.22  0.23        0.11   0.25   0.36       0,73   -       0.73                                2.23   2.19  4,42         3.17   3.92   7.09
S. L  RN                     1.42  19.91 21.33        (.16   3.47  3.63        1.75   3.95   5.70    11.50   -    11.50                                   35.19  34.61 69.80        50.02  61.04 111.96
IT,  Imp ,ved Maintenance
(Ro, ine & Periodic)
I'SS                         0.15   1.54   1.69       (.00   0,04  0.04        0.33   0.78   1.11       2.08   -      2.08                                                          2.56   2.36   4.92
S. i  RN                     2. 25  24.13  26.38      (.02   0,60  0.62        5.18  12.32  17.50    32.90   -    32.90                                                            40.35  37.05  77,40
III.  BriG.e Repairs
t:SS                         0.08   1.25   1.33       (.0.    0.03  0 03       0.13    0.31  0,44    0o;'0   -        0.70                                  1.05  1.04  2 09        1.96   2.63   4.59
S. L  Rs                     1.39  19.91  21.30       (.02   0.45  0 47        2.13    4.84  6.97    11. 0   -    11.10                                    16.63 16.37 33.00       31.27  41.57  72.84
IV.  Wor ,hops and Spares
US$                          0.02   0.39   0.41       (,02   0.28  0.30        0.03    0.02  0.05       0.29   -      0.29                                                          0.36   0.69   1.05
S. I  Rs                     0.32   6.16   6.48       1.30   4.45  4.75        0.48    0.32  0.80       4.65   -      4.65                                                          5.75  10,93  16.68    r>
V.  Tec, ical Assistance
US$                          0.01   '.25   0.26       C.01   0.03  0.04        0.02    0.03  0.05       0,05   -      0.05       0.11   1.04   1.15                                 0.20   1,35   1.55
S. t  Rs                     0.17   3.95   4.12       C.15   0.50  O.65        0.30    U.51  0.81       0,79   -      0.79       1.75  16.45  18.20          _             _        3.16  21.41  24.57
Sub- otals
US1                          0.35   4.69   5,04       0.04   0.60  0.64        0.62    1.39  2.01       3.85   -      3.85        M,ll   1.04   1.15        3.28  3.23   6.51       8.25  10.95  19.20
S. 1. RN                     5.55  74.06  79.61       0.65   9.47 10.12        9.84   21.94 31.78    60.94   -    60.94          1.75  16.45  18,20        51.82 50.98 102M80    30,55 172,90 303.45
Lont ogencies (USS)
/1  (Quan ity Increase           0.02   0.24   0.26       0 00   0.06  0.06        0.06    0.14  0.20       0.39          0.39       0.01   0.11   0,12         0.33  0.32   0.65       0.81     0.87   1.68
Infl tion                   0.12   0.69   0.81       0.01   0.09  0.10        0.19    0.20  0.39        1.19   -      1.19       0.00   0.15   0,15         1.02  0.46   1.48       2.53     1.59   4.12
Lont Onenries lota1          0.14   0.93   1.07       0.01     0.15  0.16      0.25     0.34  0.59      1.58   -      1.58       0.01   0.26   0,27         1.35  0.78   2.13       3.34     2.46   5.80
To-v                         0.49   5.62   6 11       0,05   0.75  0.80        0.87    1.73  2.60.    5.42   -        5.43       0.12   1.30   1,42         4.63  4.01   8.64    11.59   13,41  25.00
laxe, and Dlay               1.22    -      1.22      0.30  _       0,30       0.26       -   0.26      0.54   -      0.54       0.14    -       0.14       1.29    -    1.29       3.75      -      3.75
Grar,i Total with
To  asnd Duty              1.71   5.62   7.33       0.35   0.75  1.10        1.13    1.73  2.86       5.97   -      5.97       0.26   1.30   1.56         5.92  4.01   9.93    15.34   13.41  2827.
I   :  or eq, ipoent and tools; 10, on others
: ar' item i thro,gli IV is made up from the cost estimates ir   -Ies 4, 5 and 6.  item V is derived
Irom (Tart 19871
S ....  J: I! and Mts0ion llstimates



SRI IANKA
A ROAI) MAINTENANCE PROJEICT
I'roject Costs by Year (Net of 'lax and Duty:  UIS.$ millions)
YEAR 1                       YEAR 2                         YEAR 3                       YEAR 4                          TOTAL
Local  rForeign   'rotal      Local   Foreign   Total       Local   Foreign   'I'otal     l.ocal   Foreign  'Total       Local   Foreign   Total
I.  E'qujipment and Tools                    0.15    2.25       2.40       0.10    1.23       1.33       0.06    0.76        0.82       0.04    0.45       (.49       0.35    4.69        5.04
II. Spares and Supplies                       0.02    0. 32      0.34       0.01    0.10       0.11       0.01    (.09        0.10       0.00    0.09       0.09       0.04    11.60      0.64
III.  Materials                                0.05    0.11       0.16       0.24    0.53       0.77       0.24    0.53        0.77       0.09    0.22       0.31       0.62    1.39       2.01
IV. Iocal Staff                               0.34     -         0.34       1.17      -        1.17       1.17      -         1.17       1.17     -         1.17       3.85      -        3.85
V.  Technical Assistance                     0.04    0.63       0.67       0.04    0.28        0.32       0.02    0.09       0.11       0.01    0.04        0.05      0.11    1.04        1.15
V'I.  Contract Work                            _                            1.09    1.07        2.16       1.38    1.37       2.75       0.81    0.79        1.60      3.28    3.23        6.51
Sub-'otals                               0.60    3.31       3.91       2.65    3.21        5.86      2.88    2.84        5.72       2.12    1.59       3.71       8.25   10.95      19.20
Quantity Increases
57. on 1, 107. on 11 - VI               0.05    0.22        0.27       0.26    0.26       0.52       0.29    0.25        0.54      0.21    0.14        0.35       0.81    0.87       1.68
0.65    3.53       4.18       2.91    3.47       6.38       3.17    3.09        6.26       2.33    1.73       4.06       9.06   11.82      20.88
Price Increases
Year 1
Local: (1.075-1)= + 7.57.                0.05                                                                                                                     0.05
Ioreign: (1.04-1)= + 4'Z                         0.14       0.19                                                                                                           0.14      0.19
Year 2
Local (1.075 x 1.1-1)  +18.257.                                        0.53                                                                                       0.53
Foreign (1.04x1.07-1)= + 11.287.                                               0.39       0.92                                                                             0.39      0.92
Year 3           2
Local (1.075xl.l -)= + 30.17.                                                                        0.96                                                         0.96
Foreign (1.04x1.07-1)= + 19.17.                                                                               0.59       1.55                                              0.59      1.55
Year 4
Local (1.075xl.1 3) = +  43.1'.                                                                                                     0.99                          0.99
Ioreign (1.04xl.073-1)= +27.44                                                               -                    -               -         0.47       1.46                0.47      1.46
0.70    3.67       4.37       3.44    3.86       7.30       4.13    3.68        7.81       3.32    2.20       5.52      11.59   13.41      25.00
110H and Mission E,stimates
March 1979



SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Structure of DOH as of March 1979
|    M-nite of Powe
a,,d H,qh..y
D|recto                        Dretor                                                   Dir r                            D Secretary
|              H,ghways)
D,rect.,
Highw ays
|  DepJty  l    l      Deputy       l                                    |     Deputy        l         l       ~~~~~~           ~          ~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~Deputy  Deputy     Deputy      Deputy
Dlrector           Director                                                Dlrector~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D Drector             D-rctor                    D, rect.r             olrect.r
INorthern Zone )                                      (Southern Zone)                                          ( Central Zone )              Pan      (roramminP          Engi neering Ser vices      (Cosructioe t)         ( Mechanical)
I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lge ms Ctr [l
A                     A-itChfheChief En `geer                                                                                                                                                                  Chief En gieer       Establ|shment
Chief                                                          EngineertAs Chsif tA- nt                          Chief           Cheef Engie                      For                     Bridge                 to be
Directorngi s                            Diectr               E,,gin                                         Director              En      s           P P & P C.             i Highay Design,              Cotruc                   Decided
ii) an,dg, Desig
Traffic & Planeing
iv) Reseach & Tra,inig         Dpty Chef
Executive  25 Executive         ue c cotune       a 32 Ex cutive      an                            Executivat e       25 Executivet
Engineer ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~_ {Fyn Sud Engineers  Engnee  Eniner                          Engineer             EninersEgiee
Deputy Chieftosrcin
En,gin,eers
Planning &         Pln Sapplies
Asstan
E~~g.~~~e., ~Director                                Chief
(Spec.iI                       (Ad,,i-rtrat,.,,l          Accoutant
Accountant     ~Adminstrativ-              Estimates
(Flying Sguadl     Ass,stant            i)Suppl-e
Iii  Salaries & SpecIa
3 E,,~~~~~~-,r,  ~      ~            v)Paymets
S-~r,  MOPH   Moe,,, 1979                                                                                                                                                                                                           World Bah-1,  20260



SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Technical Assistance
Preproject                                                                                      Total
Prepara-               Year 1             Year 2            Year 3             Year 4         Months
tion                                                                                         Mnh
(3 Months
Maximum)
TEAM
1. Team Leader                                                                                                                             27
(Highway Planning Engineer)
2. Design Engineer                                                                                                                          15
(Highways and Bridges)
3. Mechanical Engineer                                                          - _                                                         39
4. Maintenance Engineer                                                                                                                     38
5. Contracts Engineer                                                                                                                        9
6. Management/Accountant Specialist                                                                                                         15
7. Mechanical Superintendent                                                                                                                39
PROVISIONAL
8. Site Engineers (2)                                                                                                                       25
28
9. Mechanical Superintendents (2)                                                                                                           37
21
Provisional technical assistance will be required only if there is
an unsatisfactory response from contractors. The estimated cost:
Team Leader (1) 27 months        @  S  6,700      US  S   180,900
Team (2)-(5) 101 months          @  S 5,700                575,700                     53 mnonths                    @  $  5,000         US  $  265,000
Team (6) 15 months               @  S  1,250                18,750                     56 months                     @  $ 4,800                  268,000
Team (7) 39 months               @  $ 4,800                187 200                     Air Fares and Freight                                      90,000
Air Fares and Freight                                       95,000                     Internal Travel, 111 months   @  $   700                   77,700
Internal Travel, 182 months     @  S   500                  91,000                     Local Staff, 480 months       @  $     70                  33,600
Local Allowances,1 67 months     @  S   600                100,200                     Office Supplies                                            65,000
Local Staff, 900 months          @  S    60                54,000                                                          TOTAL         US  $ 800,000
Office Supplies                                             48,000
Training Aids                                              200,000                     will be met from the financial savings made by carrying out the
TOTAL   LUS  S  1,550,750                      work by DOH, rather than contract.
World Bank - 20261



SRI LANKA
A ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
Year 1             Year 2             Year 3              Year 4
1. Credit Effective                                    c
2. Receive Bids fot Equipment and Trucks
3. Prequalify Cont actors for Highway Rehabilitation
4. Train DOH Staf in Improved Maintenance Methods:
Set up Demonst-ation District                                  _
5. Set up DOH Hec.dquarters Workshop, Install
Equipment, Tra n Staff
6. Improve Costinc and Cost Control;
Review Stores F,olding and Control
7. Complete Desigr s and Estimates for Project Works     _   -                        _    _
8. Contract Rehab istation of Roads.                                                  _    _         _                            _
9. Force A/C Reha ilitation.
Nuuwara Eliya District                                                  -         _    _         _       I -    -
Pollonaruwa District                                                             - _                  - _ r
Ratnapura District                                                              1   l       _         _   -  r  i
10. Operate Demonstration Maintenatnce District                                                      -         -       i      - _
(Resealing and Resurfacing)                                                          T
11. Bridge Reconstruction and Repairs                              _
Na,ch 1979                                                                                                           World Bank   20262






IBRED 14040R
I10~ r,'o                                               js'SRI LANKA                                           32-    APRIL19/9
Kankes-nturai                                                       ROAD MAINTENANCE PROJECT
erJcf .       iBRD PROJECT ROADS
.       \PROPOSED ROADS BY GOVERNMENT
~  '<      a iRn                                                                         =      IBRD PROJECT BRIDGES
PROPOSED BRIDGES BY GOVERNMENT
A     EXISTING DOH WORKSHOPS
,____ .BSEXISTING ROADS
RAILWAYS
4  J A  FX FN  A                                                 --   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
ulrlrrsnrsa  /1      -\ J          Mahln
:                                                      0         2) AvUNI YA \
1 2       M          vA          N N A                                                    10      RIL OAmETORS
+,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I Mr--/                                           3p  4p   5
g   _ A  /   TR NCO                                  2
,  r   \><  <  t      \<            t\Tr m~~~~~~~~~~~~rico.alee
Say of Bengal
;t 1< ~~~~~~g ~ - BMedowachch ya\ /woo a4mB orJXowfBen  
/       A  N  U  R         -AtD   A  PU/ A 
1         \           A         n Auradhap
F :0PUTTALAM                    /                                                /'  
/ n dJ   o n /T                                             N                                  P0LONNAR,6WA  i
\ [L r ~~~~~I                                       t                    (;A4as}_\\i 
0cea n
(  Cnu         \         E    ALA                  MAYA    E   (,   IIBATT CALOA*
-K i<orunee'tI I            Mt e--, -4
r
\l       OMB      _ (   K'E G  I  A L                                                           A A  PA/  o   AI
COLDMB      -trrE3                                                                        .N~~~  
ThA nar h,R  n     he          \            '  )vil
Wyorld Rankssrofjt rasois'nr for lon I         \                          u   <     
,h.r OPrtoAw R,t,ollaroOdb      I                                                                  e J  -a
Th de-oO-,n,- o-uoOand d10 M
World Book so ;eo ffihs-nan
anyi r, 0w or w any sPdoerdun .c\
orc:tn-h{UeOrse;s _-m                    >                     q       nake                        
KalutorU tS~~~A                   T      N PU RA/  Ir
PAKISTANI           )N                BReotB
.   ,1'0 I N D I A   ,     \\        Elpitlya 17X-gFl 4y   ~   ~                 H A M B A    T  O T A
I          .N\    I                                    I I  MAtAE  A                           flAor9ota
You              I      Sbrrga/                                    h A N, 8yt(
~~~~~=~~~                           /da'ian   C7cean
/ SRI LANKA
/ e d, a n -, 0c 7an   aso'aRI                                                                                                       92'         1



