CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 900 CE
Development Credit Aeement
(Road Maintenance Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 22, 1979
1t


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 900 CE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
* AGREEMENT, dated June 22, 1979, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION    (hereinafter called  the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the term "Department
of Highways" means the Department of Highways in the Borrower's
Ministry of Power and Highways.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to sixteen million five hundred thousand dollars
($16,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associ-
ation, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
t~


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Febru-
ary 15 and August 15 commencing August 15, 1989, and ending Febru-
ary 15, 2029, each installment to and incliiding the installment
payable on February 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through the Department of Highways with due diligence and effi-
ciency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, adminis-
trative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants and/or tech-
nical experts, whose qualifications, experience and terms and
conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿-3-
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Sectf.n 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Asgociation, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-4-
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satis-
factory to the Association that such land and rights in respect of
land are available for purposes related to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall put into effect a plan,
satisfactory to the Association, determining the relative status
and functions of its Department of Machinery and Equipment,
State Development and Construction Corporation and Department of
Highways inter se, by December 31, 1979.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: (a) prepare a plan for
strengthening the Department of Highways, and furnish, by Decem-
ber 31, 1979, or such other date as the Association may agree, the
said plan including a timetable for its implementation, to the
Association for comments; and
(b) carry out the said plan in accordance with its time-
table, both mutually agreed with the Association.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the Department of
Highways to dispose of all the Department's unserviceable equip-
ment and vehicles by December 31, 1980.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall carry out systematic road
maintenance (routine and periodic) and, for this purpose, shall
make suitable arrangements including the provision of adequate
funds, and prepare and adopt, by June 30, 1980, or such other date
as the Association may agree, a 5-year road maintenance program
(1981-1985), the said program being acceptable to the Association.
Section 3.10. The Borrower shall prepare and furnish, by
December 31, 1982, or such other date as the Association may
agree, a 5-year road investment program to the Association for
comments.
Section 3.11. The Borrower shall prepare and adopt, by
December 31, 1979, or such other date as the Association may
agree, contract terms and specifications for civil works on
construction and rehabilitation, acceptable to the Association.
4


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall.cause the Department of
Highways to maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause the Department of Highways
to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements (including
balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements, where appropriate) in respect of the Project for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accep-
table to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon
as available, but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of the Department of Highways in respect
of the Project and the audit thereof as the Association shall from
time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have employed at
least five consultants or technical experts whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association, to assist in carrying out the
following functions for the Project:
(a) road planning;
(b) road and bridge design;
(c) mechanical engineering;


﻿-6-
(d) road maintenance;
(e) contracts engineering; and
(f) management and accounting.
Section 5.02. The date September 25, 1979, is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance and Planning
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Planning
Colombo,
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Cable address:                       Telex:
SECMINFIN                          1232
Colombo                             FORAID
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
V __________________________________________A


﻿-7-
IF- WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their iepresentatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
By /s/ T. St. Elmo Joseph
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia
4


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works                 4,880,000        100% of foreign
expenditures; or
75% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Equipment, tools            5,500,000        100% of foreign
and spares, and                             expenditures; or
supplies (excluding                         50% of local ex-
construction ma-                            penditures
terials)
(3) Construction ma-            1,700,000        100% of foreign
terials                                     expenditures; or
50% of local ex-
penditures
(4) Consultant and/or           1,150,000        100%
technical services
(5) Unallocated                 3,270,000
TOTAL      16,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; provided, however, that if the currency of
the Borrower is also that of another country from the territory
Pt


﻿-9-
of which goods or services, are supplied, eipenditures in such
currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign
expenditures"; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals
in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $140,000
may be made in respect of Category (4) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1979.
5.   NotWithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿10
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associ-
ation's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.
18


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is intended to assist the Borrower in carrying
out a program of highway maintenance and enhancing the Borrower's
capacity to plan and execute such a program. The Project consists
of the following:
Part A:
Rehabilitation and improvement of about 112 miles of road and
resealing or resurfacing of about another 150 miles of road.
Part B:
Strengthening and repair or replacement of about 30 bridges.
Part C:
Establishment of an improved system of routine and periodic
highway maintenance.
Part D:
Provision of equipment and spares for road maintenance and
workshops.
The Project will be carried out with the assistance of about
182 man-months of consultant and/or technical services.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1983.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1. Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
B. Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka may be granted a margin
of preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one
of the following three groups:


﻿- 13 -
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction
of the Borrower and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri
Lanka equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above,
the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be
further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from group A after
adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported goods offered in
each group C bid, for the purpose of this further comparison only,
an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the
importation of the goods offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15%
of the evaluated bid price of such goods if said customs duties
and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group A bid in such
further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the
award; if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the
comparison under paragraph 3 is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be pro-
cured in accordance with the procedures described in Part A of
this Schedule, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference of
'j
~A


﻿- 14 -
7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject
to, the following provisions:
1.   Contractors applying for such preference shall be asked
to provide, as part of the data for qualification, such infor-
mation, including details of ownership, as shall be requi.red to
determine whether, according to the classification established by
the Borrower and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or
group of firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding
documents shall clearly indicate the preference and the method
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to
give effect to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by the Borrower,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Goods costing less than $50,000 equivalent may be procured
through prudent shopping on the basis of at least 3 price quota-
tions in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Associ-
ation, provided all such procurement shall not in the aggregate
exceed $200,000 equivalent.
2.   Contracts for civil works costing less than $50,000 each
contract may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:


﻿- 15 -
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request, Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Associ-
ation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Associati.on promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or -this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 16 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change orde't and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


