                                          Document of
                                     The World Bank

                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                               Report No: 73398




                                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                             ON A

                      PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                    OF
                 THE RURAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                       LOAN 7374-GU


                                       March 29, 2006


                                           TO THE

                               REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA


                                      November 1, 2012




SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT
CENTRAL AMERICA COUNTRY MANAGEMENT UNIT
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN REGION

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.
              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

IADB        Inter-American Development Bank
PDO         Project Development Objectives




       Regional Vice President:       Hasan A. Tuluy
             Country Director:        Carlos Felipe Jaramillo
              Sector Manager:         Laurent Msellati
            Task Team Leader:         Svetlana Ognianova Edmeades

                                  2
                    Guatemala - Rural Economic Development Project
                                Loan 7374-GU, P094321
                                 Restructuring Paper

1.      The purpose of this restructuring is to extend the closing date for Guatemala - Rural
Economic Development Project, Loan 7374-GU, P094321, by 12 months - from February 1,
2013 until January 31, 2014. The extension of closing date will be the third Level 2 project
restructuring and the first extension of closing date for this Loan. Previous project
restructurings were approved on April 7, 2009 and June 30, 2011.

2.       Present disbursements amount to US$10,203,618.03 or 34.01% of the total loan
amount of US$30 million. The Project’s most recent progress towards achievement of PDO
is rated Unsatisfactory and Implementation Progress is Moderately Unsatisfactory. However,
the project objectives continue to be achievable. Of the two PDO indicators, the one related
to municipal projects stemming from the participatory process planning has already
surpassed and doubled the target. The proposed extension is necessary to allow the Project to
implement 27 already approved business plans, and seek the approval of more as feasible,
enabling the project to reach the other PDO indicator (increase of total sales of the rural
productive supply chain partnerships with US$50 million during the project period).

3.     The project had a satisfactory audit report in 2011; the 2012 audit report will be
financed by the IADB (a co-financier of the project). Financial management, procurement
performance, and the overall safeguard compliance, continue to be Moderately Satisfactory.

4.      Project Management rating was downgraded to Moderately Unsatisfactory from
Moderately Satisfactory in the last ISR (October 5, 2012). The recent less satisfactory
project performance is mostly driven by institutional and technical difficulties in the
implementation of productive infrastructure activities under the project, described in detail in
project documents. The project also suffered a 20 month delay in effectiveness which has
shortened the implementation period. Mitigation measures have been agreed with
Government to bring project management back to a moderately satisfactory rating (as
recorded in the June 2012 Aide Memoire), including a transfer of responsibility from one of
the three implementing agencies who has demonstrated weaker implementation performance.

5.       An Action Plan (attached to this Restructuring Paper) has been agreed with the client
and officially sent to the World Bank on August 20, 2012. The Action Plan is formulated in 5
steps, the first being an extension of the closing date of the Loan for 12 months.

6.       Based on the Project’s recent performance, a 12 month extension of closing date is
considered an adequate measure for allowing the Project to reach its objectives, while
reducing implementation risks. Oversight of extension goals will be based on key indicators:
a) all business plans have begun implementation by January 5, 2013; b) a list of other eligible
business plans have been formulated by January 31, 2013; c) business plans are being
adequately implemented – to be assessed during Bank supervision mission in March 2013
and then again in September 2013.

7.       The remaining 4 steps of the Action Plan will be discussed in detail with the client
during a mission in November 2012 and specific actions will be proposed to improve
performance. This would involve a project restructuring related to improving implementing
agency performance, reallocation of proceeds and adjustments of intermediate indicator
targets.
                                               3
