 IEG
                                                                                              Report Number: ICRR14720

                    ICR Review
                    Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 04/20/2015

               Country: Vietnam
             Project ID: P075407                                                  Appraisal               Actual
          Project Name: Third Rural Transport        Project Costs (US$M):                    173.3                308.1
                         Project
  L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     106.3                203.3
      Sector Board:        Transport                  Cofinancing (US$M):                      24.5                 46.5

           Cofinanciers: UK Department for           Board Approval Date :                                  02/21/2006
                         International                        Closing Date:            12/31/2011           06/30/2014
                         Development
          Sector(s):     Rural and Inter-Urban Roads and Highways (92%); Central government administration (6%);
                         Sub-national government administration (2%)
          Theme(s):      Rural services and infrastructure (40%); Administrative and civil service reform (20%); Other
                         Private Sector Development (20%); Decentralization (20%)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:            ICR Review                Group:
                                                   Coordinator:
Victoria Alexeeva          Peter Nigel Freeman     Christopher David         IEGPS1
                                                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
 The project development objective as stated in the Development Credit Agreement dated May 17, 2007 (p.19) was "
to assist the Borrower in improving access (including reducing cost of access) of rural communities to markets,
non-farm economic opportunities and social service".

The project development objective in the Project Appraisal Document was more specific with regard to the
geographical scope and the type of support envisaged under the project to achieve the objectives, as follows:

" to reduce travel costs and improve access to markets, off-farm economic opportunities, and social services for poor
rural communities in the 33 participating provinces in Northern and Central Vietnam by:

    Increasing the number of communities connected to basic access and improved all weather roads;
    Improving rural road conditions through better management and maintenance of the network; and
    Improving the institutional effectiveness to plan, implement and maintain improvements in the rural transport
     network by strengthening the capacity within government and the private sector."

Following IEG Guidelines, this ICR Review is based upon IEG's assessment of the achievement of the project
objective as formulated in the legal document.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

 c. Components:
 Component 1: Rehabilitation of the core rural roads network (appraisal cost US$127. 5 million; additional financing
of US$88 million; actual cost US$244.1 million) was to finance the rehabilitation and improvement of about 3,100 km
of the core rural roads network (district, commune and village roads) in 33 provinces in Northern and Central Vietnam.

Component B: Maintenance of the district roads network (appraisal cost US$13 million; additional financing of US$5
million; actual cost US$39.4 million) was to provide additional finance to tackle the under-funding of maintenance on
the district roads network. It also envisage providing support, on a pilot basis, for the establishment and
implementation of district road maintenance management systems in the selected project provinces, including use of
standardized procedures, forms and reports to compile inventories of roads, road conditions, maintenance work
required and costs; to prioritize maintenance work; and to carry out the maintenance work.

Component C: Institutional and capacity building program for the Ministry of Transport (MOT), Provincial
Departments of Transport (PDoT) and Private Sector (appraisal cost US$10.5 million; additional financing of US$4
million; actual cost US$14 million) aimed at providing comprehensive capacity development support to improve
planning and maintenance of the rural roads network. There were four sub-components: (i) advisory services; (ii) i
ndependent review consultants; (iii) facilities to support MOT and PDOTs; and (iv) training to strengthen individual
skills development.

d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost: Total project cost was US$308.1 million at closure, 78% higher than the appraisal estimate of
US$173.3 million due to increase in road works unit costs affected by oil prices over the period of 2005-2008, road
works design modifications (upgrade), as well as upscale in road asset maintenance and management activities.

Financing: The original IDA credit was in the amount of US$106.3 million and Additional Financing of US$97 million,
totaling US$203.3 million. The total credit amount was fully disbursed at project closure. The project was co-financed
with the United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID) that committed US$24.5 million as a grant,
which was later increased to US$46.5 million to complement the project activities in management, rehabilitation and
maintenance of the rural road network.

Borrower contribution : The Borrower contributed US$58.3 million, 37% higher than the amount committed at
appraisal of US$42.5 million.

Dates: The project closing date was extended by two and a half years from the original closing date of December 31,
2011 to June 30, 2014, during Additional Financing (AF) approved by the Bank on December 15, 2011 in the amount
of US$ 97 million. AF was to enable the project to complete the original project activities due to increase in
construction costs, and allow piloting of additional road asset maintenance and management activities.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

 a. Relevance of Objectives:
High.
At the time of appraisal, the rural roads network comprised 175,000 km, served around 75 percent of the entire
national population and 90 percent of the nation’s poor who live in rural areas. Only 359 communes remained to be
connected at appraisal. One of the objectives of the project was to link these remaining communes with the transport
network. The project development objectives were consistent with the focus on infrastructure enhancement in the
Government of Vietnam's 2002 Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth
Strategy and 2001-2005 Socio-Economic Development Plan. The objectives were also relevant to the World Bank
Group's FY12-15 Country Partnership Strategy for Vietnam, which supported the provision of basic infrastructure and
related services in rural areas, in particular through connection of communities to basic access and improved
all-weather roads and strengthening the management and maintenance of the rural road network in provinces
throughout northern and central Vietnam. The objectives were also in line with the main priorities of the country
strategies at appraisal and during implementation which aimed at developing infrastructure and creating opportunities
for the poor to access public services. The project was the continuation of the earlier two rural transport projects 1-2,
which had rehabilitated over 6,800 km of basic access roads.

 b. Relevance of Design:
Substantial.
The statement of development objectives was clear. The project results framework indicated a clear causal chain
between the activities financed by the project and the outputs and outcomes related to the attainment of the
development objectives. For example, with regard to physical investments in rural road rehabilitation and
improvement, and maintenance (Component 1 and 2), the activities were expected to improve access of rural
communities reducing travel times to nearest schools and markets. Rural road conditions were meant to be improved
also through better management and maintenance of the network (Component 3).


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  To assist the Borrower in improving access (including reducing cost of access ) of rural communities to markets ,
non-farm economic opportunities and social service . Substantial.


Outputs
  3,282 km of rural roads were rehabilitated in 33 provinces, exceeding the original and revised targets of 3,150
    km.
  Routine maintenance was carried out on 19,902 km of district roads, exceeding both the original (12,000) and
    revised (17,000) targets.
  19,189 staff were trained, exceeding both the original (14,000) and revised (16,000) targets. A total of 345
    training courses were reported to have been carried out by the six vocational schools with 8,689 participants from
    PDOTs, and additional 252 courses were carried out by vocational schools and PDOTs for 10,500 participants
    from district and commune level (ICR, p.29).
  The Vietnam Provincial Roads Maintenance Management System (VPRoMMS) was developed and deployed in
    12 provinces by project closure, exceeding the target of 11. VPRoMMS enables PDOTs to prioritize interventions
    on the provincial road network based on both technical and socioeconomic data, and provides an estimated cost
    for the interventions.
  The Rural Transport policy and strategy document was prepared and approved by Government, as planned.
  Rural Road Surfacing Trial Study that started under the 2nd rural transport project was continued bringing
    significant change in pavement option selection, as explained by the ICR p. 29, there are more sealed roads
    under this project (85% sealed as compared to approximately 80% unsealed under the previous project). The
    revised technical standards for rural roads were approved by MOT and adopted by the relevant ministries, as
    planned.
  2 studies were carried out on the project's sustainability and impacts of women participation in (routine) road
    maintenance.
  The Road Maintenance Fund was established. The support to the fund is being continued under the Bank
    -financed Vietnam Road Asset Management Project approved in 2013 (ICR, p.20).


Outcomes

* The outcome values are from the results of 2012 Vietnam Household Living Standards Survey (VHLSS) which was
available in February 2014.
    People living within 2 km of an all-weather road increased from 76% at appraisal to 87% at project closure,
     exceeding both the original (86%)and revised targets (87%).
    Travel times to nearest schools and markets reduced by 9% exceeding the original target of 8% and the revised
     target of 9%.
    The indicator on increase in the percentage of households living in villages with access to motorized transport
     services for hire was achieved "based on the same boundaries for evaluation purposes" (ICR, Results
     Framework, p.iii). 73% at project closure is lower than the original baseline value of 79% due to the administrative
     changes increasing the number of provinces from 54 to 63, including the number of villages.
    The number of communes lacking year round basic access reduced from 359 to 149 by project closure. This was
     short of both the original (50) and revised targets (30) due to the administrative changes (increase in the number
     of provinces from 54 to 63).

According to the survey results carried out to evaluate the socio-economic outcomes of the project in the targeted
areas (“Socio-Economic Outcomes of Vietnam’s Third Rural Transport Project" surveyed 539 households in 6
provinces; ICR's Annex 5):

    The project had a substantial positive impact on the incomes of the project’s beneficiaries, 1,000,000 of whom
     were poor. The project investments helped lift approximately 510,000 people out of poverty and helped reduce
     0.06% of poverty rate nationwide. The poverty rate in the project's area reduced to 8.5% compared to 4.3%
     outside the project’s area for the period 2008-2012 (ICR, p.18).
    The use of motor vehicles increased substantially on the upgraded roads in comparison to control roads. The
     survey highlighted that the upgrading of roads enabled more trips to health centers with motorized transport. For
     instance, women on upgraded roads made 82% of those trips by motorbike compared with 34% on the control
     roads. In trips to market, only 14% women and no men used motorized transport on control roads, compared with
     39.8% of women and 55.7% of men on the improved roads.
    97% of people surveyed said that the project improved travel conditions; 85% said that they increased income
     and better living conditions, access to education, and markets, as well as stronger social relationships and
     improved community health. Respondents said that they were able to sell more of their agricultural and other
     products at better prices because roads were bringing buyers to them (ICR, p.20).

The pilot on increasing women's participation in the routine maintenance of rural roads that was not originally in
project design helped change the culture related to road asset preservation, as described by the ICR p.19. Ethnic
minority women living in mountainous districts had few options for earning income and were eager for an opportunity
to help improve travel conditions for their communities. Women groups carried out routine maintenance on additional
3,148 km rural roads in Lao Cai, Thanh Hoa and Quang Binh provinces under the Vietnam Women’s Union (VWU)
guidance (supported by the Bank Gender Action Plan Fund coupled with a DFID grant). The routine maintenance
performed by the women unions made it possible to maintain key communal roads and, as the ICR p.19 finds,
induced a cultural change in the perception of the communities about the importance of road asset management. The
Provincial People’s Committee allocated funds for routine road maintenance ranging from VND 600,000 to 1,000,000
per km per year, owing to the Vietnam Women’s Union and other local groups and contractors.


5. Efficiency:

At appraisal, the project included a screening to identify the poorest provinces and within them, a process to prioritize
candidate roads, along the following steps: (i) ranking basic access roads with Basic Access Road (BAR) index, (ii)
identifying economically viable improvement roads with threshold traffic volumes, and (iii) ranking improvement roads
with Improvement index. The ex-post Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) was estimated at 52% for the roads
supported under the project in 33 provinces, with varying returns by region. The ex-post analysis followed the
methodology at appraisal with updated costs and benefits conducted for all 482 appraised roads (ICR, p.16, 36). The
estimated benefits were from savings in vehicle operating costs and travel time. The VOC (per vehicle km) and
vehicle speeds (km/h) for estimating savings in time were obtained from Bank’s Roads Economic Decision Model
(RED) and Highway Development Management 4 (HDM4) (ICR, p. 31). With sensitivity test, where benefits decrease
by 20% taking into account the risk of traffic data, the overall ex-post EIRR of all sub-project roads in 33 provinces is
estimated at 43% as compared to the ex-ante EIRR above 28% in that scenario (ICR, 16; PAD p. 15). Non-quantified
wider-economic benefits included increased economic activities, poverty reduction, improved access to education,
market, or health care services as confirmed by the project's socio-economic outcomes surveys.

The ICR carried out a comparative cost analysis of road works unit costs under the three rural transport projects that
showed similar cost ranges for similar works (ICR, p.17).

Albeit high ex-post EIRR, given implementation delays, the project's efficiency is assessed as substantial.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                          Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

     Appraisal                       Yes                                      28%                                     81%

     ICR estimate                    Yes                                      52%                                     92%
                                        * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



 6. Outcome:
   Relevance of objectives is high and that of design is substantial. The project helped improve access (including
reducing cost of access) of rural communities to markets, non-farm economic opportunities and social service to a
substantial extent, as confirmed by the socio-economic outcome survey. Efficiency is assessed as substantial. The
outcome ratings under the original and revised targets is Satisfactory.
  a. Outcome Rating: Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Sustainability of the financing of road maintenance , in particular district and communal road maintenance
     operations. The Road Maintenance Fund (RMF) allocates 65% of the road revenues to national roads and the
     remaining 35% goes to the provincial, district and communal levels. the level of spending for O&M covers at most
      50% of the needs for appropriate maintenance.

     Lack of a sustained financing stream for rural road maintenance jeopardizes the operation post -completion
      sustainability. Maintenance responsibility is devolved at the subnational levels to the provinces or districts without
      or with little funding transfer. policy and organizational changes are needed to establish: i) clear policy guidelines
      for prioritization and allocation of funding local level road maintenance, and ii) an adequate monitoring and
      supervision structure for quality control and financial management.

The Bank-financed Vietnam Road Asset Management Project was approved in 2013 to improve sustainability of the
road asset management and maintenance practices on national roads in Vietnam, that would help consolidate this
project's outcomes at both provincial and national levels.

     a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:
    This was the continuation of the earlier two rural transport projects 1-2, which had rehabilitated over 6,800 km
of basic access roads. The project design built on the following lessons: a) capacity building was targeted to
improve the planning and implementation of each province’s road program instead of only the Bank financed
program, b) the technical design was adapted to the local material availability and conditions, c) a more holistic
approach for road maintenance awareness at all levels was developed, d) a fairness and transparency plan for
procurement was designed and adopted, and d) the community participation in rural road maintenance was
reinforced. The project also included a screening to identify the poorest provinces and roads within them. In
addition, new technical design standards and a wider menu of surfacing options were included in the project’s
design (ICR, p.5).

Some minor shortcomings were noted in the ICR: (i) while the number of provinces (33) was less than under the
second rural transport project (40), the ICR finds the geographic dispersion to be still substantial posing
challenges for implementation and supervision; (ii) the degree of complexity may have been underestimated as
the institutional capacity at the local level varied drastically from one province to another one (ICR, p.5,22).

     Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Satisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:
    The ICR p. 22 reports that the Bank supervised the project closely. The Bank identified and recommended
necessary actions to improve quality of works, in particular for intensifying monitoring and supervision to ensure
high quality of construction, training of the Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMU) staff for construction
management and supervision, and full compliance with the project safeguard guidelines. Where World Bank
supervision missions identified issues in application of safeguard and fiduciary responsibilities, effective follow up
action was taken (ICR, p.22). The Bank was proactive to seek additional financing due to road works unit cost
increase in order to achieve the project's development objective.

For the road asset management system, the Bank facilitated the transfer of the more user-friendly software
operationalized under the Bank’s Lao Road Sector Project through a South-South exchange program between the
Ministry of Public Works and Transport in Laos and MOT in Vietnam (ICR, p.22). Also, the Bank secured funds to
pilot an initiative in Lao Cai Province called “Ethnic Minority Women's Rural Road Maintenance”, which was not
included in the original design and required more supervision and coordination efforts but in the end positively
contributed to the road asset preservation (ICR, p.6).


     Quality of Supervision Rating :                Satisfactory

     Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   The ICR p.23 reports that the Government ensured quality of preparation and implementation,
complied with covenants and agreements, and facilitated timely completion of the project. The Ministry of
Transport helped ensure that the implementing agency executed the project in accordance with the agreements
reached with the Bank. The representatives of MOT at the highest level participated in World Bank mission
meetings and pursued sector related dialogue.

The ICR p.23 adds that MOF faced several delays in providing counterpart funding, leading to an increase in IDA’s
financed expenses percentage from 65% to 100% to compensate. The final amount contributed by the Borrower,
however, substantially exceeded the initial commitment (ICR, Annex 1).

   Government Performance Rating                                 Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:
    The Project Management Units (PMU) 5 and 6 were the implementing agencies for civil works. They had
experience with implementation of Bank projects. The ICR p.23 reports that the PMUs responded efficiently on all
project issues, adhered to the project implementation requirements, and participated in all Bank missions.

The Provincial Departments of Transport executed the procurement and supervision of the project works,
managed funds that included DFID contributions, and coordinated with partners including the Vietnam Women’s
Union despite various levels of capacity among the provinces. They led, as described by the ICR p.23, "
successfully" the overall project management and oversight for their provincial sub-components. Each of the 33
PPMUs managed technical decisions on project sub-components, with support from the five Regional Support
Offices. The ICR also commends the satisfactory performance of the District People’s Committee and District
Department of Transport (DDOT), which led maintenance activities carried out at the district level.

However, there were minor shortcomings in adhering to the Financial Management Manual, as well as two cases
of misprocurement (see section 11b below).

   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                      Moderately Satisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                         Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

 a. M&E Design:
   The key performance indicators for the project development objective included: (i) Increase in the percentage of
people living within 2 km of an all-weather road; (ii) reduction in travel times to nearest schools and markets (%); (iii)
increase in households living in villages with access to motorized transport services for hire (%). The key indicators
included baseline data and measurable targets set at appraisal (PAD Annex 3). There were 17 intermediate outcome
indicators. The ICR finds that there were too many to monitor, and some of them were consequently dropped because
they were "difficult to track, lacking a baseline, only tangentially related to the project activities, with no related data
available, or focused on outputs rather than intermediate outcomes or outcomes" (ICR, p.7). The ICR provides an
example of the indicator “number of provinces with a maintenance system in operation” that was not measurable and
specific (ICR, p.7). Also, the indicator “increase of the proportion of district roads in good and fair condition (%) that
was dropped in 2010 because the road condition surveys were not done on a reliable basis (ICR, Results Framework,
p.iv).


 b. M&E Implementation:
   The data source for the baseline and the monitoring relied on the Vietnam Household Living Standards Survey
(VHLSS) for the outcome indicators, which is conducted by the General Statistics Office (GSO) every two years to
evaluate living standards for policy-making and socio-economic development planning. The use of VHLSS implies
that disaggregated data from household surveys is used instead of measured data from the project implementation
area. The ICR p. 8 notes that while the quality of data used for the baseline and to monitor progress is satisfactory, the
data do not always directly represent the contributions of the project.

 c. M&E Utilization:
   The ICR p. 8 notes that it was not possible to assess the extent to which appropriate data from the M&E were
evaluated and used to inform decision-making and resource allocation, as the intermediate outcome indicators were
also the indicators used by the Government to monitor its own similar road management, upgrading and maintenance
activities.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

 a. Safeguards:
This was a Category “B” project that triggered three safeguards policies – OP4.01 Environmental Assessment, OP
4.12 Involuntary Resettlement, and OP4.10 Indigenous People.

Environmental Assessment : The ICR p. 8 reports that "the environmental safeguards were fully complied with".
Independent consultants carried out monitoring in all 33 provinces and confirmed that environmental terms and
conditions were included in the biding documents and construction contracts. Mitigation measures on construction site
were implemented, monitored and reported as required. The activities financed under the Additional Financing
enabled substantive improvements in the sustainability of the roads, with modifications of the road surface, the
drainage, and the slope protection (ICR, p.9).

Involuntary Resettlement : The ICR p. 9 reports that "the social safeguards were fully complied with". All social
safeguards documents and instruments were prepared, reviewed, disclosed and cleared as per Bank’s policies and
guidelines. According to the ICR p.9, most of the sub-projects had minor impact on land acquisition with very few
cases of physical relocation. By the time of project closure, all PPMUs had completed the processes of land
acquisition and compensation required for sub-projects in their locality. The ICR p. 9 also notes that PPMUs
demonstrated good performance in collecting, documenting and solving the complaints received from the affected
people. The Resettlement Policy Framework introduced a Grievance Redress Mechanism allowing citizen to voice
their
complaints about involuntary resettlement related activities caused by the project execution.

Indigenous People: The ICR p. 9 mentions that the independent monitoring consultant mobilized to oversee the
execution of social safeguard instruments confirmed an overall good performance of PPMUs in implementing
activities related to ethnic minority people and involuntary resettlement.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Procurement: The procurement arrangements under the project were similar to the second rural transport project. The
Procurement section in the Operations Manual was strengthened to make the procurement processes more
transparent and competitive. Civil works procurement processes were decentralized and undertaken in the PPMUs
under the PMU supervision. An Action Plan to Improve Fairness and Transparency in Procurement was endorsed by
MOT, and monitored biannually during the project implementation. The Bank also provided pre-project and
subsequent training for project procurement staff, as well as examples of Works Bidding Documents to speed up
bidding document preparation and clearance. There were however two mis-procurement cases, i.e., two small road
rehabilitation contracts were cancelled because the contracts were awarded to a state- owned enterprise that did not
meet the eligibility requirements and the bid evaluation report was not submitted to the Bank for prior review as
required (ICR, p.8).

Financial management. The ICR p. 8 reports that "the Financial Management policies were complied with", however
there were minor issues and delays in solving them at the provincial level. In particular, the FM practices at the
provincial level did not fully follow the Financial Management Manual during the project implementation. The financial
management capacity at Provincial Project Management Unit (PPMUs) varied substantially leading to difficulties to
follow proper financial reporting and internal control procedures. For example, there were several instances where the
accounting records at PPMUs were not up-to-date, cash counts and bank reconciliations were not performed,
balances with third parties debtors and creditors were not reconciled. These matters were repeatedly raised in the
Audit Management Letters and aide- memoires of the Bank missions and were addressed after several reminders and
substantial delays (ICR, p.8).


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:
12. Ratings:                               ICR                   IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                    Disagreement/Comments
                     Outcome: Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
          Risk to Development Significant                   Significant
                     Outcome:

           Bank Performance: Moderately                     Satisfactory      The shortcomings at entry were minor.
                               Satisfactory
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Moderately
                               Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
               Quality of ICR:                              Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 A number of lessons are selected from the ICR:

    Rural road investment and maintenance require adequate identification , planning, and costing procedures in
     order to obtain the highest value for money over road life cycles . A more detailed road costing exercise that
     takes into account, among other factors, population density, localization of economic and social centers, as
     well as construction material cost and availability, may help optimize the paving choices over the road life
     cycles.

    Gender based community driven small scale road maintenance can be an effective way to tackle local road
     maintenance issues. The Women’s Union supported under the project to manage the routine communal road
     maintenance proved to be cost effective. Contractors were not interested in small contracts for the type of
     routine work that the Women’s Union was carrying out on communal roads. The ICR p.24 finds that the gender
     based community driven small scale road maintenance also raised awareness, built a sense of local
     ownership, fostered local stewardship of local roads, and changed behavior to protect rather than damage
     roads.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

The ICR is concise and outcome oriented. The lessons are evidence- based. The ICR provides insightful explanations
for important elements of the implementation experience. The ICR however does not discuss the revisions of targets,
which are only reflected in the Results Framework. A minor typo: the Borrower's appraised contribution in Annex 1
that should be US$42.52 million as per PAD.
 a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
