Dasmetof
The World Bank
jolt oMauL uSE ONLY
1eptPwti. 5840-IND
STAPF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMHDNITY REALrH PROJECT
November 1, 1985
Population, Health & Nutrition Department
ib hhisint bu a reiehi db~I~m ml may be mud by ueeduiu.ts  toly  the peifmswmue of
i  their oMdh  iiSw  li muimb  us? e _  .hww  be d_duu  wibso  Wod  lank aorlh_m#



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00 - Rp. 1,100 (October 1985)
Rp. 1 million - US$9U9
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND INITIALS
ADB                   : Asian Development Bank
BAPPENAS              : National Development Planning Agency
BPGD                  : Intersectoral Nutrition Improvement Board
CDD                   : Diarrhoeal Disease Control
CRDN                  : Center for Research and Develcpment in Nutrition
EPI                    : Expanded Program of Immunization
Fh)C                  : Food Technology Development Center
GMSK                  : Department of Community Nutrition and Family
Resources
ICB                   : International Competitive Bidding
IPB                   : Institute of Agriculture, Bogere
KAP                    ; Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices
LCB                   e Local Competitive Bidding
LKMD                  : Village Self-Reliance Board
MCE: Maternal and Child Health
MOH                      Ministry of Health
NFPCB                 : National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PCM                      Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
PHN                      Population, Health an1 Nutrition
PIMPRO                : Provincial Project Of.'icer
PKMD                  : Village Community Health Development Program
PUSDIKLAT             : Center for Education and Training of Health
Personnel
REPELITA              : Five-Year Development Plan
SKDN                  : Growth Monitoring System
SKN                   : National Health System
TWIS                  : Timely Warning and Intervention System
UNICEF                : United Nations Children's Fund
UPGK                  : Family Nutrition Improvement Program
USAID                 : United States Agency for International Development
VAT                   : Value Added Tax
VCDC                  : Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO                   : World Health Organization



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
- i -
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Sumary
Borrower:             Republic of Indonesia
Amount:               US$33.4 million equivaleut
Terms:                Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at
the standard variable rate
Project Description:  The project's objectives would be threefold:  (a) to
strengthen the coordination and management of five
community health programs aimed at significantly
reducing infant, child and maternal mortality in
eleven priority provinces, including direct
op;._.t sonal support to these five programs
individually; (b) to further develop Indonesia's
nutrition surveillance capability in four areas:
timely warning and intervention, nutrition monitoring
and asses3ment, nutrition policy and program studies,
and nutrition information; and (c) to improve
nutrition manpower development at the paramedical and
grad-ate levels. The project's principal direct
benefits would include: improved coordination and
management, and thus increased effectiveness and
efficiency, of village-level community health (family
planning, health and nutrition) services; enhanced
national capability to predict and influence changes
in nutrition status, strengthened program monitor'ng
and evaluation capacity, and improved food and
nutrition policies; and, a more adequate stock of
trained nutrition manpower for program management and
implementation and for policy formulation and
planning. The project's main risk is that the
desired 'oordination of the five counity health
programs at the village level may not be fully
achieved, or be substantially delayed. This risk is
ubavoidable in an integrated approach or process of
this nature; and, the project's design, which places
consid-'-able emphasis on strengthening the planning,
managerial and monitoring capacity of the key
Ministry of Health units concerned with program
implementation, should serve to minimize the risk.
This document has a resiced distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offrcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
(US$ million)
A. Strengthening Coordination and Manage-
ment of Community Health
1. Community Participation                  6.0         0.1          6.1
2. Planning, Management & Supervision    4.7            0.5          5.2
3.  Communications                          2.5          1.2         3.7
4.  Community Health Secretariat            0.8          0.2         1.0
5. Program Operations Support Funds          -          5.0          5.0
Subtotal                              14.0         7.0         21.0
B. Developing Nutrition Surveillance
1. Timely Warning & Intervention            3.3         0.6          3.9
2.  Nutrition Monitoring & Assessment       3.9         0.5          4.4
3.  Nutrition Policy & Program Studies    0.6           0.5          1.1
4. Nutrition Information                    0.5         0.4          0.9
Subtotal                              8.3          2.0         10.3
C. Improving Nutrition Manpower Development
_.  Paramedical Manpower Development        6.6         2.1          8.7
2.  Graduate Manpower Development           3.3          1.7         5.0
Subtotal                              9.9          3.8         13.7
Total Base Cost (excl. taxes)         32.2        12.8         45.0
Physical Contingencies                     0.8         0.4          1.2
Price Contingencies                        8.5         1.5         10.0
Total Project Cost (excl. taxes)    41.5          14.7         56.2
Taxes (incl. contingencies)            1.5         -            1.5
Total Project Cost (incl. taxes)    43.0          *4.7         57.7
Financing Plan:
Local       Foreign      Total
(US$ million)  -
IBRD                                      19.1        14.3         33.4
Government a/                             23.9         0.4         24.3
Total                                43.0         14.7         57.7
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY    1986   1987   1988   1989  1990  1991
(U1$ million)
Annual                            0.4      4.3    8.0    8.0  10.0   2.7
Cumulative                        0.4     4.7   12.7   20.7  30.7  33.4
Rate of Return:    Not applicable
a/  Including taxes (US$1.5 million) and reserved procurement of vehicles
(US$0.6 million).



- lii -
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT,i
Table of Contents
Page No.
Loan and Project Sunmary  . . .......... .
Table of Contents   ... . . ............                  ii
Basic Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       v
Definitions . . . .  .  .  .  .  .   a . .     a .  . .  *  vi
I.    INTRODUCTION   . . . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . . . . . * . . . .  1
II.   SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY. .....           . . . . . .         2
A. The Health and Nutrition Sector in Indonesia . . . .        2
Population Status  .     ..  .  .. .. .a. . . . .. .     2
Health Status  . . . . . . a . .  a . . . . . o a        3
Nutrition Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       3
Health Sector Development  . . . . .  . . . . . . .      4
Health Organization and System . . . . . . . . . -       5
Health Financing . . . . . . . . . . a . . . . . .       7
Repelita IV - Health and Nutrition Policies  . . .       8
B. Nutrition and Comimity Health ...... . . .   .              9
C. Nutrition Surveillance.... . .... . ..                     13
D. Nutrition Manpower Development . .   . . .  0. a .         14
E. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy  ... .. . . . .          15
III.  THE PROJECT  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       17
A. Project Concept and Main Features  . . . .     .  .        17
B. Project Composition  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
C. Detailed Pro'ect Description . . . . . . . . . . . .       20
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Indonesia in March, 1985, and incorporates the outcome of post-appraisal
discussions held in Jakarta between July 1-19, 1985. The personnel
involved were: Messrs. D. Pearce (mission leader), A. Berg, and A.
Williams, and Mss. C. Fogle and N. Sirur (PHN); Mr. R.M. Brooks and Ms.
M. Griffiths (consultants).



iv -
Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Page No.
IV.  PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
A. Cost Estimate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       28
B. Financing Plan  . . . . .. a. . *..... a. . . .  ...        32
C. Procurement   * * a * * * * *  .0 * * .  * * . . .  *       33
D. Disbursements . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . .        35
E. Accounts and Audit  . .e   ...       ...    ........        36
V.   PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION . . .       36
A. Project Organization and Management . . . . . . . . .       36
B. Project Implementation  ......  ... .. .                    37
VI.  PRJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS  . . . . . . . ..38
A. Project Benefits  . . . . .. .... .. .....                  38
B. Project Risks   . . .  . . . . . .  .  . . . . . .  . . .   38
VII. AGREEMENTS REAChED AND RECOMMENDATION   . . . . . . . . .       39
ANNEXES 
1. Schedule of Disbursements..........   go.....                    41
2. Project Costs and Financing (COSTAB)  . . . . . . . . . . .       42
3. Implementation Schedule   . . . . .-. . . . . . . . . . . .      48
4.  Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File . . .     53
CHARTS
C-1.  Organigram of the Ministry of Health  . . . . . . . . .       55
MAP
IBID No. 19285



- v -
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTk PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Total area (thousanue km2)                             .     .  .. .   1,919
Total population (mid-1983 in millions)  . . . . . . . . . . .       155.7
Density per k( (id-1983)                    ..................        78
Density per km2 of agricultural land (mid-1983)  . . . . . . .       471
Annual rate of natural increase (1983) (Z) . . . . . . . . . .         2.1
Crude birth rate (1983)  ........ ........a..........  s.....         34
Crude death rate (1983)   ....    .....................               13
Life expectancy at birth (1983) (years)  .o. .  . . .   . .   o..     54
Infant mortality rate (1983) ... .. ..  ....... ..                   101
Child mortality rate (1983).. .                                       13
Haternal  ortality rate (1983) .... ............                       3
Urban population as percentage of total population. (1983)  . .       24
Adult literacy rate (1981) (Z) . .  .   . . .                         62
Population per physician (1979)  ... . . . . . . . . . . .  .   11,530
Nutrition:
Daily calorie supply per capita (1981) . . . . . . . . . . .   2,342
As percentage of requirement (1981)   .                     ..  .......  110
Per capita GNP (1983 in US$)  ...  *6....... ....                    560



- vi -
DEFINITIONS
Child Mortality Rate:    8  Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1,000
children in the same age group.
Crude Death Rate:            Number of deaths per year per 1,000 people.
Infant Mortality Rate:       Annual deaths of infants under one year per
1,000 live births during the same year.
Life Expectancy at Birth:    Number of years a new-born child would live if
subject to the mortality risks prevailing for
the cross-section of population at time of
birth.
Maternal Mortality Rate:     Number of maternal deaths per 1,000 births in
a given year attributable to pregnancy,
c-hildbirth or puerperal complications.
Dinas Kesehatan:             Province Health Officer.
Dukun:                       Traditional healer.
Kakanwil:                    MOR Provincial Officer.
Kanwil:                      MOa Provincial Office.
Panca Karya Husada:          Five key principles of health policy.



I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Until the early 1970s, Indonesia's efforts to deal with malnutri-
tion, both its causes and consequences, were relatively small-scale and
ineffective, owing to weak political commitment and direction, lack of
basic data, an inadequate institutional framework for policy formulation
and program development, and insufficient and poorly trained nutrition
manpower. Duriag the last two development plan periods (1974-84), however,
the government, with assistance mainly from UNICEF, USAID, WHO and the
Bank, has made remarkable progress in addressing these constraints.  First,
a national family nutrition improvement program (UPGK), initially focussed
on child growth monitoring and nutrition education and later broadened (in
East Java and Bali with USAID assis-ance through the National Family
Planning Coordinating Board, NFPCB) to include family planning and, more
recently, maternal and child health, diarrheal disease control and
wimunization activities, is now in place. By early 1984, this UPGK
program, for which the Directorate-General, Community Health of the
Ministry of Health (MOe) is responsible, was estimated to cover, at varying
levels of intensity and effectiveness, about half of the country's 65,000
villages. vxtended coverage of UPGK and the coordinated delivery of family
planning, health and nutrition activities and programs at the community
level is now the government's principal operational strategy for achieving
major declines in infant, child and maternal mortality and morbidity, and a
further reduction in fertility, during Repelita IV (1984-89) and beyond.
Second, the government has developed an overall food and nutrition policy,
initiated nutrition surveillance activities in one province, and, through
the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), institutionalized
nutrition considerations and perspectives into its overall macroeconomic
planning process. Third, the MOH's Academy of Nutrition in Jakarta, the
country's principal nutrition manpower training institution, and its Center
for Research & Development in Nutrition (CRDN), have both been
substantially strengthened; and, a new institution, the Food Technology
Development Center (FTDC), has been established at the Institute of
Agriculture, Bogor (IPB). Partly as a result of these activities,
nutrition now plays so large a role that, like the family planning program,
it is frequently referred to in Indonesia as a movement. Indeed, Indonesia
is now recognized internationally as one of the countries in the forefront
of nutrition development.
1.02      In 1984, upon completion of the Nutrition Development Project
(Loan 1353-IND) which contributed to many of the above developments, the
government submitted to the Bank three proposals, together comprising a
second nutrition and community health project, as follows: strengthening
coordination and management of community health; developing nutrition
surveillance; and, improving nutrition manpower development. All three
proposals follow up and build upon the policy, program and institutional
development initiatives noted above. A Bank preparation mission visited
Indonesia in October, 1984 to review and assist in project preparation and
a Banlk-financed consultant subsequently provided intermittent assistance
through early 1985. The project was appraised in March, 1985.



-2-
1.03      The project described later in this report is the third in a
sequence of three operations appraised during the last year comprising a
coordinated package of financial and technical assistance to Indonesia's
population, health and nutrition (PHN) subsectors and institutions. The
preceding two were the fourth population project (Loan 2529-IND), approved
May 7, 1985 and the second health (manpower development) project (Loan
2542-IND), approved May 14, 1985. All three projects complement each other
and, considered together, they support the comprehensive view of, and
coordinated strategy for, PHN sector development reflected in the
government's fourth five-year development plan (Repelita IV).
II. SECTOR ISSUES AND STRATEGY
A. Health and Nutrition in Indonesia 'I
Population Status
2.01      Indonesia's population of about 155.7 million (mid-1983)
increased at an annual average rate of 2.1X between 1965-73 and 2.3Z
between 1973-83. However, this increase in the average growth rate between
the two decades as a whole masks a significant declining trend in annual
growth rates during the latter period: from 2.6% in 1970 to 2.1% by 1980,
owing to lower fertility which, in turn, is attributable inter alia to
rising average age of marriage and to increasing and widespread contra-
ceptive use, particularly in Java and Bali. Assuming a reduced 1.9%
verage annual growth rate through the rest of this century, Indonesia's
population is projected to increase to 179 million by 1990 and to about 212
million by the year 2000. In addition to the population's absolute size,
the fifth largest in the world, and still high growth rate, two other demo-
graphic factors have important implications for the country's overall
development efforts: regional extremes in density, ranging from an average
of 690 persons per km2 in Java, where over 60% of all Indonesians live on
less than 7% of the country's total land area, to about 3 in Iriar Jaya,
which accounts for more than 20% of total land area; and, increasing urban-
ization, owing partly to rural-urban migration and partly to higher birth
rates in urban, compared to rural, areas. In 1983, urban dwellers account-
ed for about 24% of total population (up from 15% in 1960) and this propor-
tion is expected to increase to about 36% by the year 2000. The main goals
of Indonesia's comprehensive population policy are to reduce further the
11 A more detailed treatment of population, health and nutrition status
and sectoral development issues is given in the following Bank reports:
Indonesia - Health Sector Overview (Report No. 237q-IND); Indonesia -
Provincial Health Project (Report No. 4131-IND); Indonesia - Fourth
Population Project (Report No. 5404-IND); and Indonesia - Second Health
(Manpower Development) Project (Report No. 5442-IND).  Data cited in
paras. 2.01-2.04 are from World Development Report, 1985.



overall rate of population growth and to improve its distribution; the
government's family planning and transmigration programs are the principal
instruments of this policy.
Health Status
2.02      Despite considerable improvements during the last 20 years, the
overall health status of Indonesia's population remains far from satisfac-
tory and is inferior to that of comparable middle income countries. In
1983, life expectancy at birth was 54 years, up from 41 years two decades
earlier; the crude death rate was 13 per thousand, about 37% lower than in
1965; and the infant mortality and child death rates were about 101 per
thousand live births and 13 per thousand children aged 1-4 years respec-
tively, compared to 138 and 20 in 1965. Significant disparities exist in
both mortality and morbidity among Indonesia's widely dispersed regions
and, within regions and provinces, between the rural and urban areas-rwith
the average urban resident in Java enjoying much better health status and
access to health services than the average rural dweller in the Other
Islands. For example, life expectanc) at birth in Yogyakarta is 61 years
and in Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara only 52 years and 44 years
respectively (1980).
2.03      Although Indonesia's epidemiological profile has not changed
markedly during the last decade or so, some differences in disease patterns
between the economically more advanced urban centers and the less developed
rural areas are starting to emerge. Assuming continued socio-economic
development and increasing urbanization, this trend can be expected to
continue and to have important consequences for the longer-term development
of the country's health system. In the short- and medium-term, however,
the most prevalent causes of overall morbidity and mortality continue to
include respiratory and gastro-intestinal diseases, skin and eye infec-
tions, intestinal parasites, and vector-borne diseases, principally
malaria. Up to one-half of total mortality (about 992,000 deaths per
annum) occurs among children below 5 years of age; and, the leading causes
of death among infants (0-12 months) are diarrhea and lower respiratory
infections, exacerbated by malnutrition, and neonatal tetanus. It is
estimated that about 80X of the over half a million infant deaths per annum
could be avoided through simple, low-cost therapy and prevention.
Considering the high levels of infant and child mortality, the fact that
less than half of pregnant women receive basic prenatal care, and that only
about 15Z of all deliveries are attended by trained personnel of any kind,
improved maternal and child health (KCH) services are an obvious priority.
Nutrition Status
2.04      Although, based on the adjusted minimm daily requirement for
Indonesia (2,100 calories and 45.9 grams of protein), available calories
are sufficient and protein is adequate, protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM)
remains a serious problem and is a major underlying contributor to
Indonesia's still high rate of infant mortality. This is largely due to



- 4 -
problems of distributioi:, both among and within families. Current
estimates indicate that 15X of the population or about 23 million people,
principally the urban poor, small landholders and the rural landless, are
malnourished and that, within families, women and children under 5 years
are most likely to receive insufficient calories and protein. ludeed,
1977/78 survey data show that nationwide about 9 million children aged 1-5
years, or about 30% of all preschoolers, suffered from moderate PCM and
about 900,000 from severe PCH. Of the micro-nutrient deficiencics, vitamin
A, iron and iodine are the most important. According to 1979 MOH
estimates, 15 million people, or 10X of the popularion, had some form of
eye impairment or blindness due to vitamin A deficiLency; iron-deficiency
anemia was found in 28-52% of male workers and in 35-85% of non-pregnant
women; and iodine defiency, which can retard mental development and in
severe cases contribute to deaf mutism and cretinism, was found in 50% of
those surveyed in certain goiterous areas Java, Bali and Sumatra.
Health Sector Development
2.05      Throughout the 1960s and during the early years of Repelita I
(1969-74), the government accorded relatively low priority to health
(including nutrition) and the other social sectors. Public health
activities focussed mainly on general health education and the prevention
of epidemics; coneequ-ntly, only modest attention was paid to the
development of hospital or rural health services.   During Repelita II
(1974-79) however, a period of rapid economic growth, high pr.ority was
given to improving access to health services, particularly in rural areas,
and, by the late 1970s, each of the country's 3,400 subdistricts had at
least one public community health center. In addition, total public health
personnel nearly doubled; about 47,000 traditional healers (dukuns) and
birth attendants were trained; and legislation was promulgated obligating
graduating physicians to serve in rural areas for between 2-5 years at
least, depending on the province to which they were posted. This expansion
of physical infrastructu_o and human resources was accompanied by measures
to reduce financial disincentives to health service utilization: in 1979,
health center consultation fees were reilSced from Rp. 450 to Rp. 150
(US$0.45 to US$0.15 equivalent). Despite these developments, the public
health system's effectiveness, and specifically the utilization of its
hospitals, health centers and subcenters, remained limited-owing partly to
sociocultural and behavioral factors, which will only gradually be
overcome, and partly to the poor quality of their services, mainly a
function of inadequate numbers of qualified personnel. During Repelita III
(1979-84,, the government's three main priorities were: to continue
improving access to health services (particularly in the Other Islands); to
strengthen the referral system by improving the efficiency and
effectiveness of health facilities; and, to promote improved family health
behavior and practices in the community itself through village-level
primary health care programs. In this latter connection, considerable
initial progress has been achieved, particularly in family planning and
nutrition: by the NFPCB through its village contraceptive distribution
centers (VCDCs); and by the HOH, through child growth monitoring and



- 5 -
nutrition education activities at UPGK village weighing posts (para. 2.10
below). These advances were accompanied by significant investments in
primary and secondary education and in rural water supply and sanitation,
as part of the government's overall approach to improvirg social
infrastructure and services in the rural areas. The government's health
and nutrition priorities and goals for Repelita IV (1984-89) are elaborated
further in paras. 2.12-2.15 below.
Health Grganization and Cystem
2.06      The MOH is responsible for the formulation and implementation of
national health policy and for the overall administration, coordination and
management of the country's health system. It is headed by the Minister,
responsible to the President, and consists of the Secretariat-General, the
Inspectorate-General, and four Directorates-General:  for Community Health,
Medical Care, Communicable Diseases and Environmental Health, and Food and
Drugs. The Directorate-General, Community Health is responsible for the
family nutrition improvement program (UPGK) and for MC7/family planning
services delivered through health centers and subcenters; and, the
Directorate-General, Communicable Diseases & Environmental Health for the
expanded program of immunization (EPI) and the control of diarrhoeal
diseases (CDD). The Secretariat-General consists of Bureaus for Planning,
Personnel, Finance, Logistics, Health Legislation and Public Information,
Organization, and General Affairs. A National Institute of Health Research
and Development, comprising six separate units, is responsible for health
research and its Head reports to the Minister. Finally, there are five
recently established centers, each responsible directly to the Minister, as
follows: the Health Data Center, the Health Laboratory Center, the Health
Education Center, the Center for Education of Health Manpower and the
Center for Education and Training of Health Personnel. An MOH orgaLigram,
reflecting its recent reorganization (Decree No. 15/1984 dated March 6,
1984), is attached as Chart 1.
2.07      At the provincial level, there is a dual management system for
public health services, as is the case in some other sectors, comprising:
an MOM Provincial Officer (Kakanwil), technically responsible to the
Minister of Health, and a Province Health Officer (Dinas Kesehatan),
administratively responsible to the Provincial Governor* In practice, one
official is both MOH Provincial Officer and Province Health Officer. The
Kakanwil's office comprises an administrative division, which includes
units for personnel, budget, logistics, and general affairs, and four
divisions for planning, medical services, communicable disease control, and
food and drugs. Specific programs or projects are the responsibility of
project officers (PINPROs), who are appointed by and report to the
Kakanwil. The Province Health Officer is responsible for overall coordina-
tion of all public health services in the province. A similar structure
prevails at the district level, where the district medical officer is
responsible for coordination and implementation of all health services at
district, subdistrict and community/village level.



- 6 -
2.08      Indonesia's health care delivery system consists of a network of
primary, secondary and tertiary facilities. However, the principal source
of modern public health services for the 120 million Indonesians who live
in rural areas is the primary-level system of community health centers,
subcenters and mobile centers under the technical responsibility of the
Directorate-General of Community Health. Health centers provide bazic
medical care, MCH services, family planning services, communicable disease
control (including immunizations), hygiene and sanitation, nutrition,
community health education, school health and dental treatment. Their
staff are also responsible for recording vital statistics and health
information reporting. According to current MOH standards, the number and
type of paramedical staff varies according to region: up to 14 in the 2,536
health centers located in Java and Bali; an average of 8-9 in the 1,113
centers in North and South Sulawesi, North, South and West Sumatra, and
Lampung; and 5-6 in the remaining 1,684 centers in other provinces. In
practice, however, and except for auxiliaries, these staffing standards are
satisfied only ia the larger, urbanized communities, owing to a shortage of
fully qualified nurses and other technical paramedicals, including
assistant nutritionists. Most health centers are currently staffed on
average by 1 or 2 nurses and a few auxiliaries, supervised in about 80Z of
centers by recently graduated physicians fulfilling their rural service
obligation. In 1983/84, there were about 5,353 health centers throughout
the country, serving an average population varying from 8,000 to 35,000 per
center, according to province. During Repelita IV, MOH plans to construct
500 new health centers; and, to add in-patient facilities (10-15 beds) to
about 170 existing centers, making a total of about 300 centers (5Z of the
total by 1988/89) with an in-patient capability. In the longer-term, MOH
plans to have 20X of all health centers with such in-patient facilities,
for which a necessary criterion is a minimum full-time staff of one doctor
and six nurses.
2.09      Below and linked to health centers, health subcenters in the main
villages provide basic MCH care, including vaccination and health educa-
tion. Each subcenter, of which there were 13,636 in 1983/84 serving an
average population varying from 3,000 to 10,000, is supposed to be staffed
by 1 nurse and 1-2 auxiliaries, according to region. However, many sub-
centers function only on certain days of the week, owing to staff
shortages. During Repelita IV, MUH plans to build 6,000 new subcenters,
making a total of about 19,636 by 1988/89, at which time its objective of
3-4 satellite subcenters per health center would be substanitally
achieved. Finally, there were about 2,479 mobile health centers in
1983/84, consisting of an ambulance staffea by a doctor, nurse, auxiliary,
sanitarian and driver, and based either at a local district hospital or a
health center. An additional 1,500 mobile centers, which provide only
basic health care to surrounding villages, are planned to be introduced
during Repelita IV.
2.10      The outreach of this primary-level system of health centers and
subcenters to the community has been an important governmental concern
during the last few years. In addition to the family nutrition improvement



program (UPGK) formally established in 1974, a village community health
development program (PKHD) was introduced in 1977, under which village
health volunteers were selected by the community and given limited training
in nearby health centers. Although NOH originally planned to train about
100,000 volunteers from 5,000 villages to cover 6% of the population by
1983/84, PKMD activities had been initiated in only about 700 villages by
early 1982. Qualitatively, the program was found to have had positive
results in some pilot villages but a 1982 UNICEF-sponsored evaluation
suggested that its replicability and effective extension would require the
degree of community participation and the level of political commitment
generated by the family planning program and, since 1979, by the family
nutrition improvement program (UPGK) implying explicit involvement by the
local government authorities at the community level (the Ministry of
Interior's village self reliance boards - LKMDs); and also, adequate
technical, supervisory, referral and logistics support, as well as training
and supervision, by the MOR's community health center staff, implying
improved staffing of these centers. This evaluation also noted that PKMD's
effectiveness had been inhibited by the fact that its activities were not
well coordinated, and to some extent competed, with the family planning and
family nutrition improvement programs. Accordingly, the government's
operational strategy for significantly reducing infant, child and maternal
mortality during Repelita IV is: to develop additional paramedical health
manpower at the health center and subcenter level (partly with assistance
under the recently approved second health (manpower development) project;
and, to strengthen the coordination of community-level programs (family
planning, health and nutrition) at so-called integrated service delivery
posts (pos yandu), using NFPCB's village contraceptive distribution centers
(VCDCs) and MOH's (UPGK) village child weighing posts as entry points (cf.
paras. 2.16-2.24 below).
Health Financing
2.11      Total health, including nutrition, expenditure in 1982/83 was an
estimated Rp. 1,482 billion (US$1.35 billion equivalent), or about Rp.
9,712 (US$8.83 equivalent) per capita, and 2.7Z of GDP. Although per
capita expenditure has probably doubled in real terms since 1972/73,
Indonesia still spends significantly less on health than many other
countries at comparable income levels. Private sources of funding
(ho.sehold payments for private and public services, drug purchases and
insurance contributions) account for about 64% of total health expenditure
and the private sector provides about 59% of the country's health services,
almost exclusively in the main urban areas; by contrast, the public sector
is the principal source of modern health services for the 120 million
Indonesians living in rural areas. in this connection, public health
expenditure-per capita, as a proportion of GDP and of total central
government spending--remains extremely low in relation to other comparable
countries. For example, although the health sector's share of total
central government expenditure increased from about 2% in 1977/78 to about
2.5% in 1981/82, it remained substantially below the levels allocated in
China (4.9%), the Philippines (5.0%) ane  %ailand (4.3%) in 1981.  Health



-8-
sector financing issues in Indonesia are extremely complex and, given the
population's low health status and the country's currently constrained
resource position, increasingly important. The government, specifically
BAPPENAS and the MOH, has begun to address some of these issues (health
insurance, the recurrent cost implications of the Repelita IV health sector
investment program, and the pattern of central and provincial government
funding of health services) with technical assistance from USAID, WHO and,
in the context of economic and sector work, from the Bank.
Repelita IV - Health and Nutrition Policies
2.12      In 1982, the MDH finalized a policy document entitled National
Health System (SKN) which, for the first time, establishes a broad
conceptual foundation for the long-term development of Indonesia's health
system. In addition, it provides a planning and programming framework for
Repelita IV within the perspective of specific national public health goals
to be achieved by the year 2000. The latter include: an increase in
average life expectancy at birth to 60 years; a reduction in infant
mortality to 45 per thousand live births; a 50% reduction in the incidence
of most communicable diseases; and, a 67Z reduction in protein-calorie
malnutrition in children under five years. The realism of these long-term
goals is difficult to determine, owing inter alia to the lack of accurate
base-line data for these indicators. Moreover, the MOH and BAPPENAS have
only recently begun to assess their feasibility in terms of the financial
resources required and available. On the other hand, there is no question
about their appropriateness in terms of the population's basic needs, nor
about their complementarity to the government's demographic or fertility
reduction goals. The definition of long-term objectives is also an
essential prerequisite for establishing political commitment and for
medium-term planning.
2.13      Against this background, Chapter 23 (Health) of the Repelita IV
plan document establishes five key principles (Panca Karya Husada) as the
underlying basis for health sector policies, programs and activities during
the 1984-89 period, as follows: (a) strengthening health service delivery,
including measures to support and expand primary health care activities at
the community/village level; (b) strengthening health manpower development;
(c) expanding activities to improve nutrition, potable water supply, and
environmental health; (d) establishing programs to strengther. the overall
management of the health system; and (e) improving the supply, distribution
and quality of drugs, medicines and medical equipment.
2.14      Similarly, Chapter 10 (Food and Nutrition) of Repelita IV
specifies two main strategies as the policy basis for agricultural and
health and nutrition programs and activities respectively: expanding and
diversifying the production and consumption of food crops, in particular of
crops other than rice; and, intensifying efforts to improve nutritional
status, particularly of motners and children, in support of the country's
infant and child mortality and fertility reduction goals. As far as the
second of these two strategies is concerned, which is the institutional



-9-
responsibility mainly of the MUH, three priorities for programs and
activities are established: (a) extending the coverage and improving the
quality of the family nutrition improvement program (UPGK), including
strengthened coordination of UPGK activities with those of family planning,
maternal and child health, imnunization and diarrheal disease control (the
so-called integrated community health package); (b) developing further the
scope of nutrition surveillance activities, including specifically the
extension of a pilot time'ly warning and intervention system and nutrition
policy, research, evalration and information activities; and (c) improving
nutrition manpower development, at both the diploma (paramedical) and
graduate levels, for program implementation and management and policy
planning.
2.15      In view of their linkage to the project and loan recommended
later in this report, the three program priorities noted in para. 2.14
above-nutrition and community health, nutrition surveillance and nutrition
manpower development-and the government's plans for dealing with them are
discussed in more detail below.
B. Nutrition and Community Health
2.16      The evolution of the government's operational strategy for
strengthened coordination of community level family planning, nutrition,
and health activities is described in paras. 2.22-2.24 below, preceded by a
summary of the institutional background (paras. 2.17-2.19) and an
assessment of the family nutrition improvement program CUPGK) to date
(paras. 2.20-2.21). Further details are available in the project file.
Institutional Background
2.17      During the last 15 years, Indonesia's family planning program has
grown from a modest, mainly clinic-based system in Java and Bali during the
earlv years of Repelita I (1969-74) to a nationwide community-based network
of   ilage contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs, for the distribution
of pAls and condoms) by the end of Repelita III (1979-84). At present,
NFPCB functions in over 48,000 villages and provides support to over
100,000 family planning acceptor groups in sub-village communities. The
latter, especially in Java and Bali where the local tradition of 'gotong-
royong" is particularly receptive to mutual self-help and community
participation activities, have become a focal point for the development,
catalyzed by NFPCB, of related community development programs, including
health, nutrition, female literacy and diverse income-generating
activities.
2.18      By the mid-1970s, lowering infant, child and maternal mortality
and, related to this, improving family nutrition, began to acquire the
level of political commitment and official support already accorded to
fertility reduction and the family planning program. In 1974, a presiden-
tial decree established the family nutrition improvement program (UPGK) as
a national intersectoral undertaking, involving several ministries



- 10 -
(principally the MNO) and intersectoral nutrition improvement boards
(BPGDs) at the national, provincial and district levels, coordinated by the
Kinistry of Interior. UPGK's stated purpose is to improve nutrition and
thereby to help reduce infant and child mortality and morbidity. Its
activities, directed at mothers and their preschool aged children, focus on
nutrition education through child growth monitoring (monthly weighing) and
the promotion of child survival and development measures such as birth-
spacing, breast feeding, oral rehydration therapy and home food production,
together with distribution of nutritional 'first aids" (vitamin A capsules
and oral rehydration salts for children and iron folate tablets for
pregnant women). The MOH Directorate-General of Community Health
(Directorate of Nutrition), assisted by the Ministry of Agriculture and
NFPCB, is the lead implementing agency for UPGK; the Ministry of Religion
is responsible for srimulating community awareness and participation. By
1984, and with substantial UNICEF assistance, UPGK program activities were
underway, at varying levels of intensity and effectiveness, in more than
30,000 villages (paras. 2.20-2.21 below). A detailed snmmary of UPGK
program activities and progress to date is available in the project file.
2.19      In addition to family planning and nutrition, a third activity-
the village conmunity health development program (PKMD)--was started by the
MDR in 1977, partly in connection with the WHO-UNICEF international
declaration on Health for All by the year 2000. However, for the reasons
indicated in para. 2.10 above, PKND attracted neither the total government
commitment nor the financial resources provided to the family planning and
nutrition programs, by the government and the external aid agencies
concerned. PKMD therefore became and has remained an experimental approach
to primary health care in the broadest sense, rather than an operational,
service delivery-based program, such as NFPCB for family planning and UPGK
for nutrition.
Family Nutrition Improvemeut Program (UPGK). 1979-84
2.20      During Repelita III, with NFPCB's family planning program already
well established at the community level in Java and Bali and the UPGK
family nutrition improvement program ready to be extended from an
essentially pilot scale to wider geographical coverage, the government
decided that its objective of expanding UPGK to about 30,000 villages by
1984 could best be achieved by attaching UPGK's core package of activities
onto the family planning program. This way of rapidly extending UPGK
coverage was considered practicable because elements of the nutrition
program package had already been successfully tested (partly with Bank
assistance under two components of Loan 1353-IND: Nutrition Intervention
Pilot Project and Nutrition Communication & Behavioral Change) and because
NPPCB's network of VCDCs, including its cadre of fieldworkers, covered more
than 20,000 villages in Java and Bali alone. Moreover, this strategy was
consistent with NFPCB's growing need to develop innovative (beyond family
planning) approacbes, particularly in East Java and Bali where
contraceptive prevalence had increased dramatically and the individual and
community benefits of family planning acceptance and continued use needed



- 11 -
to be visibly demonstrated. NFPCB thus perceived UPGK as a means of
supplementing, and thereby reinforcing, the family plannirg effort and,
simultaneously, of strengthening hitherto neglected links between family
planning and improved maternal and child health. Hence, with UNICEF a8d
bilateral assistance totalling about US$17 million, UPGK was extended to
some 31,000 villages in all 27 provinces by December, 1983. In addition,
with USAID technical assistance through NFPCB, an integrated family
planning/nutrition program, jointly coordinated by NFPCB and the MOH at the
province level, was introduced in some 3,000 villages of East Java and Bali
in 1979/80.
2.21      Although an independent, program-wide impact evaluation of UPGK
remains to be undertaken (during Repelita IV under the proposed project),
baseline data collected in about 100 villages (covering 15,500 under-five
children) in 1982 and an intensive seven-village case study undertaken in
1983 suggest that UPGK is having a positive influence on the knowledge,
attitude and practices (KAP) of mothers concerning maternal and child
health and nutrition. The seven-village case study, for example, indicated
that all mothers interviewed knew the significance of weight gain or loss
of their infants and 75Z stated that they attended monthly child weighing
sessions to learn if their child was healthy-thus confirming their grasp
of UPGK's central message (a growing child is a healthy child). Knowledge
and behavior with respect to breast feeding, supplementary foods, diet, and
oral rehydration were also impressive. UNICEF's own staff evaluation,
conducted in September 1983, concluded that UPGK had tremendous potential
for reducing infant and child mortality and improving the health and
nutrition status of children under five years old, the most vulnerable
group. It also made several recommendations designed to strengthen the
program, including the following:
(a) that UPGK program villages required sustained operational
support in the form of technical guidance and supervision,
village cadre retraining, and continuo;is supply of growth
charts, educational materials and nutrient supplements;
(b) that community health center paramedical staff (including
assistant nutritionists where available) should be given
additional resources and support for more intensive
technical supervision and program management and
monitoring;
(c) that immunization and other community health interven-
tions, in addition to family planning, should be
coordinated with UPGK activities to improve effectiveness
and efficiency; and
(d) that, as the program expanded, periodic independent
evaluations of program impact on nutritional status should
be undertaken.



- 12 -
These recommendations are now being followed up by the MOH as the program
expands further, with additional UNICEF assistance totalling about US$22
million for UPGK specifically during Repelita IV.
Coordinating Community Level Family Planning, Nutrition and Health
Activities
2.22      With the program development experience adumbrated above as
background, the government decided in late 1983 that its principal
operational strategy for further reducing infant, child and maternal
mortality (as well as fertility) during Repelita IV and beyond should be to
strengthen coordination of family planning, health and nutrition service
delivery, both at the lowest level of the formal health system (community
health centers and subcenters) and in the communities and villages
themselves. Specifically, it decided that five priority community health
interventions or services-namely, family planning, nutrition,
immunization, diarrheal disease ;ontrol, and maternal and child
health--should be planned, funded and implemented in a coordinated fashion
by the executing agencies concerned, i.e. the NFPCB (family planning), the
MDI Directorate-General of Community Health (nutrition and maternal and
ctild lealth) and the MOH Directorate-General of Communicable Disease
Control [expanded program of immunization (EPI) and diarrheal disease
control (CDD)I. The basic rationales for proceeding with this coordinated
approach are broadly twofold: improved effectiveness, e.g. instead of
families having to make five separate visits to village service delivery
points (sometimes at different locations and on different days), a single
coordinated session would provide access to all five services during one
visit and in a more coherent technical manner; and, second, increased
efficiency, e.g. the amount of travel time and number of staff required, at
least in the longer-term, would be less than for five separate progrems,
since some services and activities could ultimately be handled by the same
worker.
2.23      From the policy and overall sectoral planniug point of view, this
strategy or approach is neither new nor. in theory, particularly difficult
to contemplate-particularly in Indonesia, whose policy-makers have for
long recognized the inter-relationships lietween fertility, mortality and
morbidity. In practice, however, coordinated service delivery will be no
easier to implement in Indonesia than elsewhere and must therefore be
regarded as a gradual, long-term process. It will also entail at least two
significant risks: first, that the relative strengths and effectiveness of
the individual programs (family planning and nutrition, for example) may
become diluted in the interests of the coordinated whole; and second, that
two, somewhat unequal government agencies-the relatively strong, semi-
autonomous, decentralized and well-endowed NFPCB and the relatively weak,
centralized and underfunded MOH Directorates-General--may have difficulty
achieving meaningful collaboration between their staffs, at national,
provincial and district levels.



- 13 -
2.24      While these risks cannot be avoided, they are fully appreciated
at the highest levels of the agencies concerned. Indeed, their officials
acknowledge that a necessary prerequisite for successful implementation of
the coordinated strategy is a substantial strengthening of each program
individually, in particular the maternal and child health, diarrheal
disease and immunization programs. In addition, the strategy will reauire
action to mobilize increased community participation; coordination of
financial resource allocation at the central, provincial, and district/
subdistrict levels (implying improved planning capability); coordination of
each program's training and communications (IEC) activities at all levels
(implying strengthened community health education and training capability);
and, strengthened management and supervision (including monitoring and
evaluation) of both the programs themselves and, in time, of their
individual and collective impact on the population's fertility, mortality
and morbidity.  It is in these areas-community participation, planning,
management and supervision, and commt"cations-that the government has
requested Bank assistance under the community health component of the
proposed project (paras. 3.05-3.13 below).
C. Nutrition Surveillance
Background
2.25      Nutrition surveillance, a term widely used only since the
UN-sponsored World Food Conference in 1974, encompasses a broad variety of
activities that have been developed for three main purposes: (a) national
nutrition policy formulation and planning; (b) national nutrition program
development, management and evaluation; and (c) local 'timely warning and
intervention systems designed to avert, or mitigate the worst consequences
of, short-term food deficits and accompanying nutritional emergencies. At
the 1974 UN conference referred to above, all member countries were
encouraged to establish comprehensive nutrition surveillance systems: to
monitor food and nutrition conditions among the most vulnerable groups;
and, to develop the national data collection and analysis capability
required to identify the variables affecting food consumption and
nutritional status. During the last decade, several countries have
initiated a wide range of nutrition surveillance activities, including
Indonesia.
Nutrition Surveillance in Indonesia
2.26      Partly in response to the above international initiatives and
partly as a result of growing national concerns about malnutrition and its
link to infant and child mortality, nutrition surveillance in Indonesia
during Repelita III developed along two lines: first, the analysis of
hotsehold data collected under the National Socioeconomic Survey (SUSENAS)
by the Central Bureau of Statistics, assisted by a Bank research grant
(672-19: 'Poverty, Fertility & Human Resources in Iu.onesia'); and second,
the design of a pilot timely warning and intervention system (TWIS) in two
districts of Lombok and Central Java. Regarding the latter, these two



- 14 -
provinces were chosen because they satisfied the basic criterion of
potential vulnerability to periodic, short-term and localized food deficits
and malnutrition; in addition, sufficient food consumption and nutritional
status baseline data was available and the provincial and district
authorities concerned were both interested in and committed to
participation. Accordingly, during the following four years, the MOH's
CRDN, together with the Institute of Agriculture, Bogor (IPB) and the MOH's
Directorate of Nutrition (with USAID-financed technical assistance)
designed and set up the fully operational TWIS that is now in place in
Lombok and central Java.
2.27      In January, 1984, a national food and nutrition surveillance
seminar was held to review the progress and results of the pilot TWIS in
Lombok and to- consider how additional nutrition surveillance activities
should be further developed during Repelita IV. Three important recommend-
ations emerged from this seminar, which were subsequently accepted by the
government and incorporated into the food and nutrition chapter of the
Repelita IV plan document, as follows:
(a)  the Lombok TWIS should be replicated and introduced in
phases in (up to 40) selected districts in 12 provinces;
(b)  the scope of Indonesia's nutrition surveillance activities
should be gradually broadened to include: monitoring and
assessment activities, policy and program studies, and
data collection and infor-ation systems, in support of
national and provincial health and nutrition planning and
program evaluation (e.g. UPGK); and
(c)  the MOH's Directorate of Nutrition should be the principal
coordinating agency for food and nutrition surveillance in
Indonesia, although specific assignments, projects and
tasks would be carried out by whichever government depart-
ment and/or non-government organization was approlriate.
Against this background and with the mandate indicated in (c, above, the
Directorate of Nutrition set up a task force in mid-1984, consisting of
members of its own staff and representatives of the CRDN, IPB and other
agencies, to prepare a master development plan for nutrition surveillance
for Repelita IV and beyond. A copy of this master plan, constituting the
overall framework for the nutrition surveillance component of the proposed
project (paras. 3.14-3.17 below) is available in the project file.
D. Nutrition Manpower Development
2.28      Indonesia's national commitment to nutrition, in general, and its
increasing number of nutrition and nutrition-related activities and
programs, in particular, has created a demand for additional manpower with
professional skills, training and experience in nutrition. Although the
Academy of Nutrition and School for Assistant Nutritionist in Jakarta, both



- 15 -
supported under Loan 1353-IND, helped bridge the gap between supply and
demand through Repelita III, many more nutritionists will be required in
the meditum- and longer-term.  This requirement manifests itself at two
levels: at the diploma or paramedical level, i.e. nutritionists and
assistant nutritionists required mainly for MOH provincial and district
offices, hospitals and, in particular, community health centers--the base
for outreach guidance, management and supervision of the village-level
community health programs described earlier in this report. (paras.
2.17-2.24 above); and, at the university graduate and post-graduate level,
i.e. nutrition professionals and specialists needed for senior policy,
planning and research positions in the main government ministries and
departments concerned. Regarding the latter, BAPPENAS' Health and
Nutrition Bureau, for example, is currently staffed by only thi e senior
professionals with university-level training in nutrition, although there
is provision for ten positions during Repelita IV. At present, there are
only four fully functioning nutrition manpower training institutions in the
country: the academy of nutrition and school for assistant nutritionists
noted above; a private sector academy in West Java; and, the Department of
Community Nutrition & Family Resources (GMSK) at IPB.
2.29      During Repelita IV, the MOB plans to increase its overall
manpower by about 75%, from about 162,000 at present to about 284,000 by
1988/89.2/ Of this total, paramedicals would double, from about 56,700 to
about 114,700, of which nutritionists and assistant nutritionists would
increase from about 1,100 to about 6,100. This is to be achieved by
developing 4 new nutrition academies and 11 new assistant nutritionist
schools, of which 3 have started operations in temporary premises in South
Sulawesi, and South and West Sumatra respectively. Further details of the
MOE's overall health manpower development policies, programs and plans are
contained in the second health (manpower development) project staff
aPpraisal report (Report No. 5442-IND dated April 24, 1985). As far as
university graduate level manpower is concerned, IPB's Department of
Community Nutrition & Family Resources (under the Ministry of Education and
Culture) plans to introduce a new S3 (Ph.D) program, in addition to its
existing small SI (bachelor's) and S2 (master's) degree programs.
2.30      The proposed investments in paramedical and university level
nutrition manpower education and training noted above constitute the
framework for the autrition manpower development component of the project
and loan recommended later in this report (paras. 3.18-3.20 below).
E. Bank Role and Assistance Strategy
Experience with Past Lending and Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.31      Bank Group assistance to Indonesia for population, health and
nutrition to date totals US$197.7 million comprising: one credit and three
2/ Further details of the government's plans and investment priorities for
developing health and nutrition manpower are available in the Staff
Appraisal Report on the Second Health (Manpower Development) Project
(No. 5442-IND).



- 16 -
loans for population amounting to US$118.7 million; two loans for health
amounting to US$66 million; and a single US$13 million loan for nutrition.
Four of these projects have been satisfactorily completed and fully
disbursed (net of cancellations owing to local currency devaluations); two
(for the fourth population and second health (manpower development)
projects respectively) were approved in May, 1985 and (are expected to be
declared effective shortly); and one (Loan 2235-IND for provincial health)
is in the second full year of implementation and, compared with appraisal
estimates, about nine months behind schedule, owing mainly to delays in its
civil works components. Subject to minor caveats with respect to initial
implementation delays in the first population, health and nutrition
projects, the Bank's overall experience with PUN projects in Indonesia so
far has been satisfactory, particularly in terms of achieving their program
development and institution-building objectives.
2.32      A completion report for the first nutrition project (Loan
1373-IND) was submitted to the Operations Evaluation Department in July,
1985. Its principal conclusions were: that the base for nutrition-related
activities in Indonesia was far better today than at project inception;
that the project's three major objectives-institution-building, the
testing of field-level nutrition interventions, and policy formulation and
development-had been largely met; and, that the government's proposals for
follow-up activities to further strengthen its national nutrition efforts
deserved serious consideration by the Bank and other external aid
agencies. The explicit rationale for Bank assistance for the proposed
second nutrition and community health project is thus to follow up and
build upon the policy, program and institutional development initiatives
started by the government, partly with assistance under the first project.
This second project also takes into account, and will indeed complement,
existing and proposed UNICEF, USAID and WHO financial and technical
assistance to Indonesia for health and nutrition.
PHN Sectoral Assistance Strategy
2.33      In a broader context, the Bank's sectoral assistance strategy in
Indonesia is to assist government efforts to improve coordination between
its population, health and nutrition subsectors and institutions, in
support of the country's ambitious fertility and infant and child mortality
reduction goals. Such improved coordination is necessary in policy and
program implementation terms because of the interdependence of efforts to
reduce fertility, mortality and morbidity. The implications of this
strategy for Bank operations in the immediate future include: continuing
assistance for population and family planning per se, through the NFPCB and
the Ministry of Population & Environment (e.g. the recently approved fourth
population project); and, because of their relative weakness and, until
recently, perceived lack of priority, substantially increased assistance
for health and nutrition, mainly through the various MOH institutions
concerned. The recently approved second health (manpower development)
project and the proposed second nutrition and community health project
together comprise the second element of this coordinated PHN strategy. In
addition, a second provincial health project is being identified and
prepared during the coming year for proposed Bank lending.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Concept and Main Features
3.01      Indonesia's policy, program and institutional development efforts
to deal with malnutrition since the mid-1970s and its priorities for
nutrition and community health during Repelita IV were outlined in paras.
2.12-2.30 above. Against this background, the project's concept and main
features may be summarized briefly as follows.
3.02      First, one of the government's main national public health goals
is to reduce infant mortality from about 95 per thousand live births in
1983/84 to around 70 per thousand live births by 1988/89. This goal is a
priority health sector objective in and of itself, as one key indicator of
the population's overall health status. It is also a prerequisite for, and
a necessary complement to, the equally important national imperative of
sustaining (and, if possible, accelerating) the decline in overall
fertility already underway. The attainment of these infant mortality and
fertility reduction goals depends inter alia on widespread access to and
the effective delivery of a technologically simple package of community
health services (family planning, maternal & child health, nutrition,
immunization and diarrhoeal disease control) which, if properly
coordinated, reinforce each other and, in the longer term, can result in
their improved effectiveness and increased efficiency. Experience to date
with the family planning and family nutrition improvement programs,
particularly in East Java and Bali, has demonstrated the potential for such
coordination at the village and/or community level. Thus, while the
government intends to further extend and strengthen both family planning
and nutrition activities in currently underserved areas, it also plans to
utilize their respective institutional infrastructures and presence (i.e.
existing contraceptive distribution centers, family planning acceptor
groups, and child weighing posts in villages and subvillage communities)
not only to support each other's activitieA but also to promote and extend
the coverage of maternal & child health, imLmnization and diarroeal disease
control activities. This coordinated approach to community health
service delivery, by definition a gradual, long-term process, will require:
strengthened community participation; coordinated planning, management and
supervision of these five programs; an integrated community health
education/communications support strategy; and strengthened program
monitoring and evaluation.
3.03      Second, as far as nutrition-specific policies, programs and
activities are concerned, the government's operational priorities for
Repelita IV are broadly threefold: to extend UPGK program coverage from
about 31,000 villages at present to all Indonesia's 65,000 villages by
1988/89, if possible; to intensify and broaden the limited nutrition
surveillance activities initiated during Repelita III and thereby improve
the quality of health and nutrition policy formulation, sectoral planning,
and program development and evaluation; and, related to both, to increase



- 18 -
the output and availability of qualified nutrition manpower at the
paramedical and graduate levels. The government, with UNICEF assistance,
has already committed very substantial resources to the UPGK program for
Repelita IV and little or no further external aid is required in the
immediate future. However, both nutrition surveillance and nutrition
manpower development require external financial and technical assistance to
complement the limited government resources available.
Project ObJectives
3.04      The project's overall goal is to assist Indonesia's efforts to
combat malnutrition (particularly in mothers and children under five years
of age) and thereby to help reduce infant, child and maternal mortality and
morbidity. Its specific operational objectives would be threefold:
(a) to strengthen the coordination and management of five
community health programs through support for: community
particlpation; planning, management and supervision;
communications; and the secretariat of the Directorate-
General, Community Health; and through direct operational
support to these programs individually;
Cb) to develop further Indonesia's capacity for nutrition
surveillance through support for: extending its timely
warning and intervention system (TWIS), nutrition status
monitoring and assessment activities, nutrition policy and
prograa studies, and, nutrition information; and,
(c) to improve and strengthen nutrition program implementation
and policy planning through support for: nutrition manpower
development at the paramedical and graduate levels
respectively.
These separate but inter-related objectives would be accomplished by the
project inputs described in paras. 3.05-3.22 below.
B. Project Composition
3.05      The project would have three major components, each with a number
of subcomponents as follows:
A. Strengthening the Coordination and Management of Community Health
A.1       Strengthening community participation through:
(i) training and orientation of village leaders in the purpose of the
five key community health programs and in the organization of
common service delivery posts (pos yandu);



- 19 -
(ii)  training of village volunteers (kader) in organization and
motivation and in the basic technical content of the five health
programs; and
(iii)  assisting in the institutional development of the Directorate kf
Community Participation.
A.2       Improving planning, management and supervision through:
ti) assisting in the development of a systematic process for the
planning of health activities, based on a reliable assessment of
community health needs;
(ii) helping to generate broad commitment to the coordinated health
services delivery approach among community leaders at the
national, provincial, district and subdistrict levels; and
fiii)  strengthening supervision and monitoring at the provincial,
district, subdistrict and community levels, including
development/production of supervision manuals and determination
of appropriate indicators to monitor program progress.
A .3      Improving communications through:
Ci) developing and implementing a nationwide promotional campaign
relating to the coordinated health programs;
(ii) developing and producing communications materials and messages
for the individual health and nutrition programs in support of
their community activities;
(iii) developing instructional materials and training of kader trainers
at the provincial, district and subdistrict levels in support of
A.1(i) and (ii); and
(iv) assisting in the institutional development of the recently-
established Center for Community Health Education.
A.4       Strengthening the planning, managerial and coordination capacity
of the Community Health Secretariat.
A.5       Providing operations support funds for program supplies as needed
for service delivery at the community health centers or below.
B. Developing Nutrition Surveillance
B.1       Strengthening and extending the timely warning and intervention
system (TWIS) to about 37 districts in up to 11 provinces through:
(i) carrying out of feasibility studies to determine the districts
for TWIS expansion; and



- 20 -
(ii) strengthening the naticnal TWIS support unit and establishing
province- and distri_t-level TWIS teams.
B.2       Strengthening nutrition monitoring and assessment through support
for the implementation of five operational research projects/surveys.
B.3       Supporting nutrition policy and program studies in four priority
areas to assist in national and local policy formulation and program
development.
B.4       Improving nutrition information dissemination through
strengthenirg the nutrition information unit in the Directo-ate of
Nutrition.
C. Improving Nutrition Manpower Development
C.1       Strengthening paramedical nutrition manpower development through:
(i) establishing two nutrition academies and six assistant
nutritionist schools; and
(ii)  helping to improve educational quality at paramedical nutrition
institutions.
C.2       Strengthening of graduate nutrition manpower development through:
vi) physical development of the Institute of Agriculture's (IPB's)
facilities for existing bachelor's, master's and proposed
doctoral degree programs in nutrition;
(ii)  developing a nutrition course for staff of the Ministry of
Agriculture; and
(iii)  establishing a food and nutrition policy analysis unit at IPB.
C. Detailed Project Description
Strengthening Coordination & Management of Community Health (US$21.0
million)-5/
3.06      To achieve its infant, child and maternal mortality reduction
goals, the government is focussing its main effort and resources on the
coordinated delivery of the five key community health programs in 11
provinces-East, Central and West Java, DKI Jakarta, North, South and West
Sumatra, East and West Nusa Tenggara, Lampung and South Sulawesi. These 11
provinces include about 80% of Indonesia's population and account for about
82% of total infant deaths. Depending on local circumstances, the family
nutrition improvement and/or family planning programs' community-level
activities, Which have hitherto developed and functioned independently
3/ Project costs cited in Chapter III Section C exclude taxes and
contingencies.



- 21 -
(except in East Java and Bali), are being utilized as the principal entry
points for the development of so-called common service delivery posts or
pos yandu, organized by the communities themselves, to which immunization,
diarrhoeal disease control and other maternal and child health services are
added with technical support and guidance from the local community health
center or subcenter. Thus, the five key programs' actitivies are conducted
by village kader (volunteers) who are responsible to the Ministry of
Interior's village self-reliance boards (LKMDs), with the technical
assistance and support of trained family planning, health and nutrition
staff from NFPCB's subdistrict offices and the MOH's health centers and
subcenters. Moreover, program activities, since they are organized and run
by the communities themselves, are conducted at the same time and place,
making it easier and more effective and efficient for the principal
beneficiaries-i.e. mothers and their children-to participate in all five
programs. This process of coordinating community health activities through
common service delivery posts or pos yandu is already underway in some
areas, based on local initiatives and the experience already gained in East
Java and Bali, and the objective of this component of the project would be
to strengthen the process and the three 10  institutions concerned in three
areas: community participation (Directorate of Community Participation);
planning, management and supervision (Directorate of Community Health
Centers); and, communications (Center for Community Health Education). In
addition, the project would provide support for management (including
monitoring and evaluation) of the Directorate-General, Community Health
itself and also for additional supplies that may be needed for any or all
of the five programs, supplementing resources already committed by UNICEF
and other donors.
3.07      Community Participation (US$6.1 million).  The role of the MOH's
recently established Directorate of Community Participation (a department
of the Directorate-General, Community Health) is to promote and support
community involvement and participation in activities related to the basic
health of mothers and children. To this end, the Directorate will work in
close collaboration with the Ministry of Interior's LKMDs, the women's
organization ifL the communities (PKK) and other village-level institu-
tions. The project would thus support two kinds of activities: training
and orientation of village leaders in the organization of pos yandu and in
the purpose of the five key community health programs (about 16,500
villages in 11 provinces); and, training of village kader in organization
and motivation and in the basic technical content and activities of the
five programs (about 16,500 villages in 11 provinces). In addition, the
project would assist in the institutional development of the Directorate of
Community Participation through provision of fellowships, vehicles, travel
and subsistence costs, honoraria and technical assistance (required for
program implementation and supervision). Further details of these
activities are available in the project proposal available in the project
file.
3.08      Planning, Management and Supervision (US$5.2 million).
Coordination of the five key programs will require sigrificant assistance
and support from outside the community and from two major sources: the
local community health center or subcenter which is responsible for all
health activities within its coverage area; and, the LKMD, under the



- 22 -
Ministry of Interior's Directorate, Community Development which oversees
all village-level activities across sectors. The MOH's Directorate,
Community Health Centers is responsible for planning, managing and
supervising the activities of health centers and subcenters and their
outreach support and guidance to the community (pos yandu), in
collaboration with the Directorate of Community Participation, the NFPCB
(for family planning) and the Ministry of Interior's Directorate of
Community Development.
3.09      One necessary precondition for the effective coordination of
village-level service delivery is the systematic planning of activities,
based on a reliable assessment of the communityts overall health status,
problems and perceived needs. Such community health assessments and the
definition of locally relevant health plans need to be undertaken at the
lowest possible level of the health system, i.e. the community health
center. Aggregation of these plans at the district level, and of district
plans at the province level, should then facilitate rational resource
allocation, by locality and by program, and provide a baseline for
supervision and for program monitoring and evaluation. This process of
community health assessment and planning, termed "microplanning' by the
MON, has already been tried in selected areas of West Java and Bengelu,
with WHO technical assistance, and, using a similar 'functional analysis'
methodology, is to be continued in five districts of West Java by the
University of Indonesia, School of Public Health (with UNDP/USAID
assistance). Meanwhile, the MOM is proceeding with the introduction of
'microplanning" in 8 of the 11 priority provinces noted in para. 3.05
above, although no evaluation of its effectiveness in terms of improved
resource allocation and program implementation has yet been undertaken.
3.10      To complete the introduction of the 'microplanning' process in
the 3 remaining priority provinces of North & South Sumatra and Lampung,
the project would provide support to the Directorate, Community Health
Centers for staff orientation and training (including fellowships),
community health assessments and plans, and planning workshops in 31
districts, comprising about 1,203 sub-district couminity health centers or
subcenters. In addition, an evaluation of "microplanning" experience to
date in a representative sample of subdistricts would be undertaken as the
basis for targetting future incremental resource inputs that may be
required to strengthen the entire process. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that this evaluation would be undertaken and completed by
September 30, 1986.
3.11      As suggested in pars. 2.10 above, the process of coordinated
service delivery itself will need to be encouraged and supported by
(i) increased political commitment; and (ii) strengthened supervision
particularly at the province, district, subdistrict and community levels.
To help generate the requisite commitment, the project would provide funds
to the Directorate, Community Health Centers to conduct training meetings
for community leaders at the national, provincial, district and subdistrict
levels to increase their awareness and knowledge of the coordinated



- 23 -
programs. And, to strengthen field supervision at the province, district,
subdistrict and community levels, with particular emphasis on technical
advice and assistance for coordination of the five comunity health
services, the project would provide support for the development of
supervision manuals and travel and subsistence costs of supervision
activities in the 11 priority provinces (comprising about 180 districts and
over 3,100 subdistrict community health centers) over 4 years.  For
purposes of project preparation and project cost estimates, the following
periodicity and duration of supervisory visits was assumed: province/
district - thrice annually for 5 days each; district/subdistrict - thrice
annually for 3 days each; and subdistrict/village or community - thrice
annually for 2 days each.  These field supervision activities would be
carried out in the 2nd through the 5th year of project implementation, with
the field-testing and reproduction of the supervision protocols or manuals
(already being prepared with WHO technical assistance) being completed
during the 1st year. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
appropriate supervision guidelines/manuals would be available by September
30, 1986 and that annual supervision schedules would be prepared by March
31 each year for review by the Bank during project supervision.
Supervision would thereafter be implemented, taking into account the Bank's
comments. In addition, to ensure adequate monitoring of the progress of
the coordinated approach, assurances were obtained that an index of
reporting/monitoring indicators for the five community health services,
based on data already being collected, would be developed by September 30,
1986.
3.12      Communications (US$3.7 million). Motivating collaborative
efforts by officials and staff of different institutions (MOH and NFPCB)
and of different departments and programs within the same institution
(Directorates of Community Health and Communicable Disease Control)
requires inter alia that the rationale for and the overall benefits of such
collaboration be clearly understood and accepted by individuals concerned
at all levels. This involves leadership skills by the principal officers
concerned and, for a process as complex and evolutionary as the integrated
approach to community health, staff orientation and in-service training.
In addition, the (largely uneducated) target population in the community
itself needs to understand better the inter-relationships between specific
health service interventions and family health knowledge, behaviour and
practices; for example, breast feeding and child nutrition or oral
rehydration and diarrhoea. This involves an oEten innovative and
culturally acceptable health education and communications support strategy,
which was pioneered and successfully tested on a large scale under the
first nutrition project. Experience throughout the world and in Indonesia
itself has proven that the effectiveness of community health activities is
greatly enhanced by well managed and focussed information, education and
communications (IEC) acivities. The responsibility for these activities in
the MOH lieo with the Center for Community Health Education and the project
would provide support to this Center for three types of activities: {i) a
nationwide promotional campaign relating the significance of the five key
community health programs to the goal of reducing infant and child
mortality; (ii) the development of communications materials and messages



- 24 -
for four of the five programs (excluding family planning which has its own
IEC apparatus) in support of their activities in the communities; and
(iii) development of instructional materials and training of village cadre
trainers at the provincial, district and subdistrict levels in their use,
and in the broader teaching techniques required to successfully implement
the community level training (para. 3.07). In some cases, both development
and production work would be contracted out to appropriately qualified
private firms and agencies. In addition, the project would assist in the
institutional development of the recently-established Center for Community
Health Education through provision of fellowships, technical assistance,
vehicles and funds for annual planning workshops.
3.13      Community Health Secretariat (US$1 million).  In order to manage
the community health component of the project, as well as coordinate the
activities of the other two components, (i.e., nutrition surveillance and
manpower development) the project would provide support for incremental
staff required for the existing secretariat of the Directorate-General,
Community Health: 2 finance officers, 2 procurement officers, 3 planning
and evaluation officers, a deputy executive secretary and 2 support
staff-a total of 10 full-time staffz In addition to their overall
managerial and supervisory responsibilities, these additional staff would
also direct the carry4;g out of two evaluations of the coordinated
communlity health programs: a baseline survey to assess the current status
and coverage of the five programs in the 11 provinces focussed on the
development of pos yandu, to be carried during the first six months of
project implementation; and, a mid-project evaluation of progress, to be
carried out in 1987/88, the results of Which would be available by April
30, 1988 for planning for Repelita V, commencing April 1, 1989. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained concerning the timetable, scope and
terms of reference for these two evaluations. In addition, the appointment
of the 10 additional staff referred to above is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan. Finally, to strengthen its longer-term
management, supervision and coordination capacity, the project would
provide the secretariat with technical assistance in planning and
management; office equipment and vehicles; fellowships; and funds for
supervision, monitoring and meetings.
3.14      Programs Operations Support Funds (US$5 million).  Although the
family planning (NFPCB) and family nutrition improvement (UPGK) programs
receive substantial government and external financial assistance (from
UNFPA, USAID and the Bank, and from UNICEF respectively), the maternal &
child health, immunization and diarrhoeal disease control programs have so
far not attracted significant resources, owing partly to their still
limited coverage and absorptive capacity. If, as planned, the coordinated
approach to community health generates increasing demand for more intensive
or extensive activities in these three areas, it is possible that these
programs' development could be constrained by lack of resources. To
obviate this eventuality and because it is impossible to forecast precisely
their actual needs over a 5 year period of potentially rapid progress, the
project would provide funds in the amount of US$5 million for program
supplies (equipment, drugs, vaccines, consumable materials, etc.) that may
be needed for service delivery activities at the community health center or
below. While it is intended that, for the reasons indicated above,



- 25 -
maternal and child, immunization and diarrhoeal disease control activities
would have first call on this fund and thus be its principal beneficiaries,
family planning and nutrition program surplies would not be excluded.
3.15      The programs operations support funds would be administered by
the Project Steering Committee (para 5.02), chaired by the Director-General
of Community Health. During negotiations it was agreed that no withdrawals
would be made in respect of these funds until the Steering Committee has
submitted recommendations satisfactory to the Bank for their use. Such
recommendations would include: (i) requirements for supplies for
individual community health programs; (ii) availability of domestic and
other external financial support for these programs; and (iii) proposed use
of funds covering to the extent possible requirements for two-year
periods. In this connection, if specific program requests included
equipment, materials and/or supplies available through UNICEF's catalog or
international procurement system, the government would request UNICEF to
procure on its behalf and the Bank to reimburse UNICEF directly.
Developing Nutrition Surveillance (US$10.3 million)
3.16      Timely Warning and Intervention (US$3.9 million).  During
Repelita IV, it is planned to extend the pilot timely warning &
intervention system (TWIS) developed in Lombok (paras. 2.26-2.27 above) to
37 districts in up to 11 provinces, most vulnerable to periodic food
consumption problems and nutrition emergencies. The 37 districts would be
selected following feasibility studies at the province level. These
studies would also identify staffing and the other inputs required in the
selected districts and provide the basis for provincial TWIS planning and
development workshops. In addition to the 37 district-level TWIS
activities, province-level TWIS teams (about 10 individuals from both local
governments and universities) would be developed, with assistance from the
existing national TWIS team, to design and support the district-level
TWIS. Finally, because of the large volume of provincial and
district-level development work to be undertaken, the project would
strengthen the national TWIS support team in the Directorate of Nutrition.
To this end, the Directorate of Nutrition would be assisted by IPE, CRDN,
BULOG and Ministry.of Agriculture staff aE  needed.  The project would
therefore provide support in the form of local and foreign consultancies,
training, equipment, vehicles and materials, travel and subsistence costs
and honoraria for the above purposes. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that annual TWIS development plans would be prepared by May
31, 1986 and by March 31 in each year thereafter for review by the Bank
during project supervision.
3.17      Nutrition Monitoring & Assessment (US$4.4 million).  Despite
increasing knowledge about the causes and consequences of malnutrition,
Indonesia's data base is still inadequate for a country of its size and
diversity. Thus, one important element of the government's strategy for
broadening the scope of nutrition surveillance activities is the systematic
monitoring and assessment of nutritional status and nutrition problems,
programs and activities. To this end, the project would provide support
(in the form of technical assistance, training, equipment, vehicles,
materials, travel and subsistence costs and honoraria) for five operational



- 26 -
research projects/surveys in the following areas: (a) proteinr-energy
malnutrition (PEM), mortality and UPGK program participation at the
subdistrict and village levels in eight provinces & DKI Jakarta;
(b) anthropometric measurement of preschool-aged children through the 1986,
1987, and 1988 SUSENAS sample surveys carried out by the Central Bureau of
Statistics at the national and provincial levels; (c) goiter prevalence
among primary school children (a national sample survey) and revision of a
national goiter prevalence map; (d) prevalence of vitamin A deficiency
among preschoolers in six provinces; and (e) an evaluation of the UPGK
program's growth monitoring system (SKDN) and the development of additional
SKDN indicators. Further details of these monitoring and asses3sment
activities are available in the project file. The scope, general terms of
reference, and implementation schedule for the above activities were
discussed and agreed at loan negotiations.
3.18      Nutrition Policy & Program Studies (US$1.1 million).  In addition
to the monitoring and assessment activities outlined in the preceding
paragraph, special policy-based studies and analyses are required from time
to time, in particular by national planners in BAPPENAS and certain
sectoral ministries (Health, Agriculture, Interior, Education and
Population & Environment, for example) to support improved national and
local policy formulation and program development. The project would
therefore provide support for such policy and program studies in four broad
areas: (a) the formulation of food and nutrition policies and pla:1s for
Repelita V; (b) an inrdepth independent impact evaluation of the UPGR
program; (c) a program of discrete, issue-oriented studies required for the
annual development planning and budgeting process, mainly by BAPPENAS; and
(d) to augment the limited operttional research budget of the Food
Technology & Development Center (FTDC) established under Loan 1353-IND, a
study or studies in village food technology to be commissioned by the
Directorate of Nutrition in support of its programs. In addition, a
project allocation of US$100,000 would be provided for unidentified
small-scale studies, not exceeding US$10,000 each, that would be defined
and agreed during project implementation. While the Directorate of
Nutrition would be responsible for the commitment and disbursement of
project funds for all the policy and program studies noted above,
individual studies and research projects would be implemented by
appropriately qualified government agencies, university departments and/or
individuals (consultants) as decided by a Steering Committee, chaired
jointly by the Directorate of Nutrition and the Health and Nutrition
Bureau, BAPPENAS. Draft outline terms of reference for the studies
specified above have been prepared and were discussed and agreed during
loan negotiations. In addition, assurances were obtained that anrnal plans
for policy studies would be prepared by May 31, 1986 and by March 31 in
each year thereafter for review by the Bank during supervision. The
establishment of the Steering Committee noted above is a condition of loan
effectiveness.
3.19      Nutrition Information (US$0.9 million).  The effectiveness and
potential impact of the monitoring and assessment and policy and program
studies to be undertaken above, in raw scientific or technical language,
will be limited unless it can be presented and disseminated in a



- 27 -
comprebensible manner to those who can act on such information. Moreover,
given Indonesia's size and diversity, it is important that the results of
on-going policy and research work be available promptly and circulated to
all interested parties, particularly to provincial and district-level
governments and universities throughout the country. Accordingly, the
project would provide support for the development of a nutrition
information unit, in the Directorate of Nutrition, to assemble, catalog,
and disseminate nutrition data; edit, print and distribute policy and
research documents; and, as required, respond to requests, by government
off'^ials and/or the public at large, for nutrition data and information.
This support would consist of funds for training, technical assistance,
staff allowances, travel and subsistence costs and the acquisition of
nutrition books/periodicals, and equipment. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that the Nutrition Information Unit would
commence its activities by May 31, 1986, and be maintained thereafter with
appropriate staffing and budgetary resources.
Improving Nutrition Manpower Development (US$13.7 million).
3.20      Paramedical Nutrition Manpower Development (US$8.7 million).  As
indicated in paras. 2.28-2.30 above, the expansion of the UPGK program and
its technical quality and management is already somewhat constrained by
insufficient numbers of diploma-level nutritionists and assistant
nutritionists in MOR provincial district offices and, in particular, at the
subdistrict community health centers-the operational base for logistics
support and program activities at the village level. To alleviate this
growing shortage, part of a much larger overall health manpower development
plan, the government has sanctioned the development of 15 new nutrition
manpower training institutions (4 academies and 11 assistant nutritionist
schools) during Repelita IV. Accordingly, the project would provide
support for the development of 8 of these institutions (2 academies and 6
schools) in Aceh, Bali, East, Central and West Java, North and Southeast
Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara. Funds would be provided for physical
development (civil works, equipment, furniture and vehicles (2 per
institution)) and for books and teaching aids and materials. In addition,
to improve educational quality at paramedical nutrition institutions, the
project would provide support for staff training, technical workshops and
improved supe.vision.
3.21      Graduate Nutrition Manpower Development (US$5.0 million).  While
the dearth of qualified and experienced senior nutrition professionals in
absolute terms is quantitatively less dramatic than for paramedical
nutrition manpower, the shortage in relative and qualitatitive terms is
just as important, not least because of the long lead time required for the
education and training of university-level graduates. Hitherto, the
limited numbers of Indonesian graduates in nutrition at the master's and
doctoral degree level have mostly obtained their tertiary level training
overseas, in Europe and the United States. Meanwhile, the Institute of
Agriculture, Bogor (IPB), through its Department of Community Nutrition &
Family Resources (GMSK), conducts a small bachelor's (SI) and master's tS2!



- 28 -
degree level program and plans, with the Ministry of Education & Culture's
approval, to develop a doctoral (S3) degree level program, the first in the
country.
3.22      Accordingly, the project would provide funds for the physical
development of improved and expanded administrative, classroom and labora-
tory space (civil works, equipment, furniture and teaching aids and
materials) for GMSK's existing bachelor's, master's and proposed doctoral
degree programs in nutrition; support for the development of a nutrition
course for staff of the Ministry of Agriculture; and computing facilities,
technical assistance and fellowships required for the establishment of a
fetd and nutrition policy analysis uinit at IPB. The proposed GMSK facility
wouiL be located at the new campus currently under development as part of
IPB's 20-year long-term plan.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimate
4.01      The project's estimated total cost is Rp. 63.5 billion or US$57.7
million equivalent, including value added taxes (VAT) amounting to Rp 1.7
billion or US$1.5 million equivalent. The total project cost net of duties
and taxes, therefore, iq Rp 61.8 billion or US$56.2 million equivalent.
Its foreign exchange component is an estimated US$14.7 million, or 26Z of
the total. Detailed project costs are presented in Annex 2 and are
summarized, by component and exper-diture category, in Tables IV.1 and IV.2
below.



- 29 -
Table IV.1:  Summary ProJect Cost by Component a/
-    (Rp bilUoo)-  -( TS$ zLlnO)- Z orelg
Local Frei=  Total Local F      ibtal E
A. Si rezOdrg cOwrd:Itiorn aM           of
1. namty  pzticpeio (PO0                        6.6    0.2   6.7   6.0    0.1   6.1         3
2. Plawig,    ge      a swper1son (Pupdrms)  5.2    0.5   5.7   4.7    0.5   5.2            9
3.   r     rmqcatiom (MO                        2.7     1.4   41    2.5    1.2   3.7       33
4.  namity tealth icetwLa                       0.8     0.3   1.1   0.8    0.2   1.0       27
5. Prrorai  qoperxo  a zt fuizis                -       5.5   5.5   -       5.0   5.0    100
Siu-Total                                      15.3    7.9  23.2  14.0    7.0  21.0        32
S. Dev'e1op  Nutrition SurveiUwie
1. Timely wamir ard Iltervemlon                 3.5    0.6   4.1   3.3    0.6   3.9        15
2. Mitritioa uon otDirg ad asmmnt               4.3    0.6   4.9   3.9    0.5   4.4        12
3. Nution poicy mI Prgz zSwdies                0.7    0.5   1.2   0.6    0.5   1.1         43
4. Nutrition infouwAtlo                         0.5    0.4   0.9   0.5    0.4   0.9        45
Sr-Total                                        9.0    2.1  11.1   8.3    2.0  10.3        19
C. Tzprovf_g Nitrt1m Mmmr Deve **;t
1. ParsicaL meritlon    eor dwelqpmm            7.3    2.3   9.6   6.6    2.1   8.7        24
2. Grkite nstdtion uwr d          re1On        3.6    1.9   5.5   3.3    1.7   5.0        34
sd,-rTaL                                       10.9    4.2  15.1   9.9    3.8  13.7        28
Total BElim cots                                  35.2    14.2  49.4  32.2   12.8  45.0        29
Pthyscal G=Ircendes                              0.9    0.5   1.4   0.8    0.4   1.2         35
Price Cootixeed                                  9.3    1.7  11.0   8.5    1.5  10.0         15
Total Project Cosm  (dml. town)                   45.4   16.4  61.8  41.5   14.7  56.2        26
Va3ue-s Tac                                        1.7     -      1.7   1.5    -      1.5       -
Total Project Costs (iL  t)                       47.1    16.4  63.5  43.0   14.7  57.7       26
al Duh to rounl!rg, f3ures ury x add up mnly.



- 30 -
Table IV.2:  Summary Project Cost by Expenditure Category al
(RapiAh bIlion(US 9=0                       %iG
Local  Fordog  Total  LAcal  Fore1gcL Total  Emft
. Imestm   Coss
A.  ama                                     1.4     -        1.4    1.2     -        1.2-
B. Cxvl Wofd                                5.6     1.6      7.2    5.1     1.5      6.6       22
C. Fu&ture, EqupWIt, Vehicles, Materias
1. FuronLe ard Staurd pEqupme           0.6     0.2      0.8    0.5     0.2      0.7       25
2. SpeaLal q FPt                        0.3      1.2     1.5    0.3      1.1     1.4       81
3. MatedraIBUOOs                        2.0      1.2     3.3    1.9      1.1     3.0       37
4. Vehcles                              0.1     0.5      0.5    0.1     0.4      0.5       85
S&-T1tal Flute, Fluipufez, VeCces,
1lated.als                                3.0      3.1     6.1    2.1      2.8     5.5       47
D. Tehcnical Aseistaze azd FeUlawblp
1. Lrcla 1mtants                        1.0              1.0    0.9     -        0.9        -
2.   'rsMW Qudt=.tts                    -        1.3     1.3    -        1.2     1.2      100
3. Tcal FelowuhPs                       2.0     -        2.0    1.9     -        1.9        -
4. Qirerseis Fel1zsmblps                -       2.1      2.1    -       2.0      2.0      100
S&-tol Tahnl ica AstStas  and FeUa1mhLps 3.0        3.5      6.5    2.8     3.2      6.0       54
E. TainuLg                                  1.5     -       11.5   10.4     -       10.4
F. lrarLa, Trwe  ar PerDLems                9.0     -       9.0    8.2      -        8.2        -
G. Studies                                  1.2     0.4      1.6    1.1     0.4      1.4       25
H. Operatorn SupIDTt Funds                  -       5.5      5.5    -       5.0      5.0      100
Total Tnvestmet COts                       34.7    14.2    48.8   31.6    12.8    45.5         29
II. n.zrre  Costs
A. operatiom aoi Maizterier                 0.5     -       0.5    0.4      -       0.4        10
B. M=SwrA1 salarim                          0.1     -       0.1    0.1      -       0.1  _
TtalRemree  Cogts                           0.6     -       0.6    0.5      -       0.5        8
Toal Uaslrx Costs                          35.2    14.2    49.4   32.2    12.8    45.0         29
Mysica10 qa rhI    s                      0.9     0.5      1.4    0.8     0.4      1.2       35
Price LOa,-fp                             9.3     1.7    11.0    8.5      1.5    10.0        15
Total roject Csts (ewl. toxs)              45.4    16.4    61.8   41.5    14.7    56.2         26
ValueAduad Tuc                              1.7     -        1.7    1.5     -        1.5        -
To-l Project coss (ifl. tas)               47.1    16.4    635   430    14.7    57.7           26
a/ Ibe to rouIizg, fwursmay r t aid up eactly.



- 31 -
4.02      The project's base costs are expressed in October, 1985 prices.
Construction costs are the product of space standards reviewed during
appraisal and unit prices provided by the government, averaging US$324
equivalent per m2 for the university facilities at IPB and US$260
equivalent per mk ir the two academies and six schools. Equipment and
furniture costs ar derived from standard lists provided by the project
authorities concerned; and, the costs of instructional, survey and research
materials are based on current prices paid by the institutions concerned.
Equipment imported under the project would be exempted from duties oc
taxes. Import duties aud taxes on building materials have not been
identified separately in project costs because they are negligible.
Technical assistance costs for local consultants include salaries and
subsistence, and for foreign consultants include salaries, subsistence,
insurance and airfares. Overseas degree training is estimated at about
US$19,200 per staff year and non-degree training (attendance at
professional conferences and seminars for up to one month) at about
US$6,000 per staff month, inclusive of air travel. Local degree
fellowships are estimated at US$2,700 equivalent per staff year for
undergraduate (SI) training and at US$4,500 equivalent per staff year for
master's (S2) and US$7,300 for doctoral (S3) studies. Local travel and per
diem costs and honoraria are based on current rates for government staff.
4.03      Physical contingencies IUS$1.2 million) represent 20Z of civil
works and 3% of total base costs. Price contingencies (US$10.0 million),
equivalent to 22Z of total base costs, are calculated on base costs plus
physical contingencies and a five-year implementation period, during which
the annual rates of increase are assumed to be as follows: local - 8% for
1985-90; and foreign - 5% for 1985; 7.5% for 1986; and 8% for subbaquent
years.
4.04      The project's foreign exchange component, calculated on the basis
of experience with similar projects in Indonesia, is estimated as follows:
civil works - 19%; furniture and standard equipment - 25X; instructional,
survey and research materials - 33%; specialized equipment - 81X; vehicles
- 85%; foreign consultants and overseas training - 100%; and the program
operations support fund - 100%.
Recurrent Costs
4.05      The incremental recurrent costs generated directly by project
investments (mainly in nutrition manpower development) would amount to
about Rp. 0.5 billion annually in 1989/90, representing less than 0.3Z of
projected MOB expenditure in that year. These costs would be of two kinds:
salaries and benefits for nutritionists, assistant nutritionists and
nutrition academy and school faculty and for the incremental staff at the
community health secretariat; and, building, equipment and vehicle operat-
ing and maintenance expenditures at the expanded GNSK facility (IPB), the
schools and academies established under the pro.ect, and the Directorate-
General of community health headquarters.



- 32 -
B. Financing Plan
4.06      The proposed US$33.4 million Bank loan would finance 60% of total
project costs, net of the cost of vehicles purchased by the government
under reserved procurement and taxes and duties, including VAT. The loan
would thus cover US$14.3 million, or 97%, of the foreign exchange cost and
US$19.1 million, or about 45%, of local costs. Bank financing of 60% of
total costs, including local costs within this limit, is consistent with
current project cost sharing guidelines for the social sectors in
Indonesia. The balance of total project costs US$24.3 million equivalent
would be financed by the government from its annual development budget.
4.07      The proposed financing plan and loan allocations by category of
expenditure are indicated in Table IV.3 below.
Table IV.3: Financing Plan
Totals
(including
GOI    IBRD    contingencies)
Project Expenditure                   US$ million      -
Land                                1.3     -            1.3
Civil Works                         2.2     6.5          8.7
Furniture, Equipment, Vehicles,
Materials                          4.1     3.3          7.4
Technical Assistance and
Fellowships                        -       7.2          7.2
Training                            3.8     9.6         13.4
Honoraria, Travel, Per Diems       10.6     -           10.6
Studies                             -       1.8          1.8
Operations Support Funds            -       5.0          5.0
Recurrent Costs                     0.8     -            0.8
Total Project Cost (excl. taxes)  22.8    33.4          56.2
Value-Added Tax                     1.5     -            1.5
Total Project Cost (incl. taxes)  24.3    33.4          57.7



- 33 -
C. Procurement
4.U8      Project procurement arrangements are summarized in Table IV.4
below and described in the following paras. 4.09-4.13.
Table IV.4: Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Total Costa/
Procurement Method        (including
Expenditure Category             ICB    LCB   Otherb/  N.A.  contingencies
A.  Land                                  -        -       1.3       1.3
B.  Civil Works                    2.1    6.6      -       -         8.7
(2.1)  (4.4)   (H) (-)           (6.5)
C.  Furniture, Equipment.          1.8    3.1      0.9     1.6c/    7.4
Vehicles, Materials          (1.8)  (1.5)   (-)      ()        (3.3)
D.  Technical Assistance           -      -        7.2     -        7.2
and Fellowships              (-)   (-)       (7.2)   (-)      (7.2)
E.  Training                       -      -        -      13.4      13.4
C-)    (-)     (-)      (9.6)    (9.6)
F. Honoraria, Travel,              -      -        -      10.6      10.6
Per Diems                    (-)    ()       (-)     ()       ()
G.  Studies                        -      -        -       1.8       1.8
-)    C-)      (-)      (i.8)    (1.8)
R. Operations Support Funds        -      -        5.0     -        5.0
(-)    (-)     (5.0)   (-)       (5.0)
I.  Recurrent Costs                -      -        -       0.8      0.8
(-)    (-)    (-)       (-)      (-)
Totals                         3.9    9.7    13.1    29.5      56.2
(3.9)  (5.9)  (12.2)  (11.4)   (33.4)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by
the proposed Bank loan.
a/  Net of duties and taxes, including VAT.
b/  Other means of procurement include: reserved procurement (vehicles);
prudent shopping (off-Vt?e-shelf materials); Bank guidelines (technical
assistance); standard government procedures (fellowships); and UNICEF
procurement (operations support funds).
c/ This portion of materials' cost is listed under N.A. because it refers
to costs associated with development and evaluation of materiils.



- 34 -
4.09      One major civil works contract for the GMSK facility at IPB,
amounting to about US$2.1 million would be awarded on the basis of ICB, in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The remaining eight smaller civil works
contracts for two nutrition academies and six assistant nutritionists'
schools totalling about US$6.6 million are too small (averaging US$0.8
million each) and geographically dispersed (in eight different provinces)
to attract foreign bidders and would thus be awarded on the basis of LCB
procedures acceptable to the Bank. Building designs and tender documents
would be prepared by local private architectural consultants, on the basis
of agreed standards and schedules of accommodation. Construction
supervision would be performed by local consultants assisted by IPB's own
site engineers for the GMSK facility and by the Ministry of Works' field
staff for the academies and schools in accordance with local government
practice. Appropriate sites for all nine project facilities are already
available.
4.10      Equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials would be procured as
follows: about US$3.1 million or 42%, consisting of furniture and standard
equipment items manufactured locally in Indonesia at competitive prices,
would be procured using LCB procedures under which both local and foreign
suppliers represented in Indonesia would be eligible to bid; and, remaining
specialized items, valued at US$1.8 million, would be grouped to the extent
practicable into bid packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more and
awarded on the basis of ICB, in accordance with Bank guidelines. Local
suppliers would be eligible to bid and, in bid evaluation, would be
accorded a preference margin equal to 15Z of the cif costs of competing
imports, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is lower. Lists of
equipment, materials and furniture to be procured under the project are
available on the project file. Off-the-shelf items of equipment and
materials not exceeding US$30,000 per package may, up to an aggregate total
of US$0.3 million, be purchasp' through prudent shopping on the basis of
three competitive price quotaL'.ons. Vehicles valued at US$0.6 million in
total would be obtained under reserved procurement, in accordance with
government policy, which prohibits importation of vehicles. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the government would finance
these vehicles and procure them under a time schedule agreed with the Bank.
4.11      Selection of foreign and local consultants required for technical
assistance services (34 and 101 staffyears respectively) would be carried
out in accordance with Bank guidelines. Overseas and in-country
fellowships (69 and 646 staffyears totalling US$1.9 million and US$2.0
million respectively) would be arranged by the project units concerned,
with assistance from the Overseas Training Office of the State Ministry for
Administrative Reform, in accordance with standard government policies and
procedures.
4.12      Equipment, supplies and consumable materials required for the
five community health programs (i.e. family planning, nutrition, the
expanded program of immunization, the diarrheal disease control program and
maternal and child health services) and eligible for financing from the
program operations support funds (cf. paras.3.13-3.14 above and para. 4.14



- 35 -
below) would, to the extent possible, be obtained through UNICEF in
accordarace with UNICEF international procurement procedures, acceptable to
the Bank.
4.13      Prior Bank review would be required for all ICB contracts, all
LCB civil works contracts exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent, and all
remaining contracts exceeding US$0.1 million. Other contracts would be
subject to selective post-award reviews during project supervision.
D. Disbursements
4.14      The proposed US$33.4 million loan would be disbursed over a
period of five and three quarter years through December 31, 1991, nine
months after the estimated project completion date, and against the
following categories of project expenditures: (a) 75Z of total expenditures
on civil works; (b) 1OOZ of foreign expenditures on equipment, furniture,
books and materials supplied by suppliers outside Indonesia, 95Z of the
ex-factory costs of such equipment, furniture and materials procured
locally or 65% of local expenditures on other items procured locally;
(c) 100% of total expenditures on consultants' services, fellowships,
studies and items procured through UNICEF under the program operations
support funds; and (d) 70% of total expenditure on training. For group
training activitles, disbursements would be against statements of
expenditure based on agreed unit costs and verified by the project
executing agencies. Disbursements for studies would also be against
statements of expenses. Supporting documentation would be retained by the
executing agencies in a central location and made available for review as
requested by Bank supervision missions.
4.15      The schedule of estimated disbursements, contained at Annex 1,
indicates a rate of loan withdrawal slightly slower than rhe inter-regional
PEN disbursement profile for the first year, but a somewhat faster one for
subsequent years, reflecting PEN's experience in Indonesia and the advanced
status of preparation of all project components. In addition, since the
standard PEN profile is weighted by slow implementation in first PHN
projects in a number of countries, it is not wholly applicable to Indonesia
where the government has considerable experience in implementing Bank PHN
projects, the proposed project being the eighth in the sector and the
fourth to be executed by the Ministry of Health. Moreover, in order to
ensure a prompt start to both civil works and degree training at GKSK,
expenditures incurred after April 1, 1985 and before loan signing on site
surveys, detailed designs, draft tender document preparation and fellow-
ships would be eligible for retroactive reimbursement up to a limit of
US$150,000.
4.16      To the extent practicable, loan withdrawal aDplications would be
aggregated in amounts of US$100,000 equivalent or more before being sub-
mitted to the Bank for payment. Disbursements for all civil works would be
made against individual contracts. Withdrawal applications for goods with
a contract value of US$100,000 or more would be supported by full
documentation. Other disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditures, with supporting documentation being retained by the project



- 36 -
executing agencies concerned for selective review by project supervision
missions.
E. Accounts and Audit
4.17      The principal project coordinating and executing agency (MOH
Directorate-General of Community Health) would establish and maintain
separate accounts for all project expenditures, in accordance with sound
accounting practices. Such project accounts, including documentation in
support of statements of expenditures, would be audited annually by audi-
tors satisfactory to the Bank and annual audit reports would be submitted
to the Bank as soon as available but not later than nine months after the
end of the government's fiscal year. Six months after the closing date,
the project director would submit a project completion report (PCR) to the
Bank.
V.  PROJECT ORGANIZATION, MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Organization and Management
5.01      The project's overall organization and management would adhere as
far as possible to existing structures and patterns within the individual
implementing units concerned, with the additional strengthening described
in para. 3.12 below. Againat this background, the MOH Directorate-General,
Community Health would be responsible for overall project coordination,
with individual project implementing departments/units being responsible
for specific project components, as follows:
Directorate-General, Community Health       Community Health
Directorate of Nutrition                    Nutrition Surveillance
Center for Education & Training of          Nutrition Manpower (para-
Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT)                medical)
Department of Commnnity Health &            Nutrition Manpower (graduate)
Family Resources (GMSK), IPB
Under the overall guidance of the Directorate-General, Community Health,
each of the above departments/units would be responsible for carrying out
the project activities within their purview, including the procurement of
civil works, goods and services, project finances (including counterpart
funding and loan reimbursements) and project monitoring and progress
reporting.



- 37 -
5.02      The project would be directed by the Director-General, Community
Health, whe would also act as Project Officer.  To ensure appropriate
intra- ane. inter-ministerial coordination, the government would establish a
Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Director General, Community
Health, consisting of: the Secretary General, MOR; the Director-General,
Communicable Disease Control, I4OH; the Deputy Chairman, Programs Operation,
NFPCB; the Deputy Chairman for Social and Cultural Affairs, BAPPENAS; the
Vice-Rector, IPB; the Director General of Higher Education, Ministry of
Education; and the Director General, International Monetary Affairs,
Ministry of Finance. The Steering Committee would meet quarterly to review
overall project progress, approve plans and budgets for all project
components, and resolve any issues affecting project goals and
implementation. Establishment of the Project Steering Committee is a
condition of loan effectiveness.
5.03      Project implementation officers would be designated by each of
the departments or units noted in para. 5.01 above, who would be assisted
by teams of full- or part-time staff responsible for the administrative and
technical aspects of projecticomponent activities and coordination. In
this connection, the Secretariat of the Office of the Directorate-General,
Community Health would be strengthened by the assignment of at least ten
full-time staff, who would coordinate and manage all activities relating to
the comunity health component specifically and liaise with their
counterpart teams in other departments/units responsible for the nutrition
surveillance and nutrition manpower development components. In addition,
the local and foreign technical assistance services included in the project
would assist all three component implementation teams and thus strengthen
the project's overall management.
B. Project Implementation
5.04      Project civil works, consisting of the GMSK facility at IPB and
eight paramedical shools and academies, would be carried out in accordance
with standard government procedures. The GMSK facility at IPB is one small
part of an overall long-term development plan for IPB, which is well
equipped to carry out a component of this scope and size. As far as the
paramedical schools and academies are concerned, the arrangements in place
and outlined in Report No. 5442-IND dated April 24, 1985 for the recently
approved second health (manpower development) project would apply.
5.05      The project would be implemented over a five year period
(Annex 3), plus nine months for final payments and full disbursement of
loan proceeds. In view of the geographical dispersion of project
activities and the large number of governmental agencies involved in their
implementation, it is considered appropriate to allow nine rather than six
months between project completion and loan closing to allow sufficient time
for collection and submission of withdrawal applications. The project is
thus expected to be completed by March 31, 1991, with a closing date Of
December 31, 1991.



- 38 -
VI. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
6.01      The principal direct benefits of the project would be broadly
threefold. First, the effectiveness and efficiency of five key community
health programs would be enhanced through strengthened planning and
resource allocation at the national, provincial and district levels;
improved community health education and communications support, and
systematic monitoring, evaluation and supervision, particularly at the
provincial and district levels. Second, the scope of Indonesia's nutrition
surveillance activities would be significantly broadened: specifically, its
ability to predict and influence changes in food availability, food
consumption and nutritional status among the population most at risk would
be institutionalized in 37 districts in 11 provinces; and, through
nutrition monitoring and evaluation, policy studies, and information
activities, its health and nutrition policy formulation and planning
capability would be further strengthened. Third, the country's stock of
trained nutrition manpower would be increased, leading to more effective
management and implementation of community health and nutrition programs
and a broader human resource base for national policy planning and
research. Moreover, as the community health and nutrition activities to be
strengthened by the project would be targetted mainly to women and young
children in Indonesia's villages, the project can be expected to have
significant implications for improving social welfare in the country's
relatively poor rural areas.
B. Project Risks
6.02      The project's main risk relates to the community health
component, namely that the desired coordination of the five key community
health programs may not be fully achieved, or be substantially delayed. As
indicated earlier (paras. 2.23-2.24), this risk is unavoidable in an
integrated approach of this nature, which must be viewed as a gradual,
long-term process. To minimize the risk, however, the proposed project
places considerable emphasis on strevgthening the planning, managerial and
monitoring capacity of the key MOB units concerned with implementation of
the program - particularly the Directorate of Community Health Centers and
the Community Health Secretariat, which would play critical roles in
supervising/coordinating program activities. Moreover, the government's
commitment to the policy and process is clear, as is its awareness of the
potential problems involved. In the circumstances, the risk is acceptable
and the provision of substantial technical assistance, as well as an
above-average Bank project supervision and implementation assistance
effort, is planned to minimize its adverse consequences. An initial
project implementation or 'launch' workshop has also been planned to ensure
that the main individuals concerned with project implementation become
thoroughly acquainted with the project's scope, and government and Bank
procedures for projects of this type.



- 39 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      At loan negotiations, assurances were obtained that:
(a) the Borrower would undertake and complete an evaluation of
'microplanning" by September 30, 19bi (para. 3.10);
(b)  the Borrower would: (i) complete the preparation of field
supervision guidelines/manuals by September 30, 1986; (ii) pre-
pare annual field supervision schedules by March 31 in each year
thereafter; and (iii) develop an index of reporting/monitoring
indicators by September 30, 1986 (para. 3.11);
(c) the Borrower would undertake and complete baseline and
mid-project evaluations of the coordinated comamnity health
programs by October 1, 1986 and by April 30, 1988 respectively
(para. 3.13);
Cd) the Borrower would prepare annual timely warning and intervention
system (TWIS) development plans by May 31, 1986 and by March 31
in each year thereafter (para. 3.16);
Ce) the Borrower would prepare annual workplans for nutrition policy
and program studies by May 31, 1986 and by March 31 in each year
thereafter (para. 3.18);
(f) the Borrower would establish by May 31, 1986 and thereafter
maintain a Nutrition Information Unit with appropriate staffing
and budgetary resources (para. 3.19); and
(g) the Borrower would finance project vehicles and procure them
under a tiAe schedule agreed with the Bank (para. 4.10).
7.02      The following are conditions of loan effectiveness:
(a) the appointment of the ten additional staff required for the
Community Health Secretariat (para. 3.13);
(b) the establishment of a Steering Committee for nutrition policy
and program studies (para. 3.18); and
(c) the establishment of the Project Steering Comittee (para. 5.02).



- 40 -
7.03      The following is a condition of disbursement:
(a)  no withdrawJas would be made in respect of prograus operations
support funds until the Project Steering Committee has furnished
recommendations satisfactory to the Bank for their use. Such
recommendations would include:  requirements for supplies for
individual community health programs, availability of domestic
end other finawcial support for these programs, and proposed
use of these funds (para. 3.15)
7.04      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project
herein proposed would constitute a suitable basis for a US$33.4 million
loan to the Republic of Indonesia at the standard variable rate, and for a
term of 20 years including a five-year grace period.



- 41 -                           ANNEX 1
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMlTNITY HEALTH PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursements
Percentage Disbursed
IBJD Fiscal Year     Semester     Cumulative      Estimate For     All PHN
and Semester              US$ Millions            This Project     Projects
1986
Lm- 1-.           0.1           0.1               0.0            1.0
2nd                0.3           0.4               1.0            4.0
1987
1st                1.3           1.7               5.0            7.0
2nd                3.0           4.7              14.0           12.0
1988
1st                4.0           8.7              26.0           17.0
2nd                4.0          12.7              38.0           24.0
1989
1st                3.7          16.4              49.0           31.0
2nd                4.3          20.7              62.0           39.0
1990
1st                4.7          25.4              76.0           48.0
2nd                5.3          30.7              92.0           56.0
1991
1st                2.7          33.4             100.0           68.0



- 42 -
MM  UIEIilU M          C_ IBL CTI   7A
Table 10. 0IIII  IE10 EITYI         1  C0110111 PSTlSlT        (93)                          Table 1
1ilad Mt Tiall
Totals IcAadti C'UnrwAs
ha Cast                           7tah  Inluadhb   Cmnltirdow                           (t    D mI
1     2       2      4      5   lotA       I      2      3       4      5   Total       1     2      3       4      5   Tbal
1.UrT cuSmn
.- VIUAJE WitEL IMT7                         134.9  134.9  1.9  134.9  134.9  674.4  145.9  17.   170.2  103.   1I9.5  9561  12.7  143.3  154.7   17.1   10.5  771.3
3. 36111 VRLL   VI.l153  (KM)
1. IlWUTII I 41D a      TI I I
UELIPENT   OF TM  MTn134                3B.5   ah.s       -       -      -   55.0  45.3   21.2        -       -      -   67.3   41.7   19.3       -       -      -    0.9
D3 Tlne T13b (T1         5 ff1 )           -  790.3  7e0.3  700.3  710.3 29391.3       -  31.1  333.5  954.2 1,070.5 3,136.3       -  743.7   03.2  067.5  926.3 3,351.2
SAS        3U.TIT  ITEOII.) is          1.7        -      -       -      -   18.7  19.7       -       -       -      -   19.7  17.9        -      -       -       -   17.9
LME  CUILTIIT3 4TEIDBTJ) /b             134    4.5        -       -      -   17.1  U.4    5.2         -       -      -   17.7  13.2    4.7        -       -      -   17.9
S.-TOtl MeATIm  An HrMTI  MM    73.6  M.3  703.3  o0e.3  700.3 2#392.?  30.0   W.s  303.5  954.2 le.03.5 3                      792. 72.7  767.7  30.2  967.5  936.1 3o447.9
2. ll  P _llom  Tl3lS
IWIS4  OF 1 MTRS                        30.5   16.5       -       -      - s55.   15.8   21.2 -   -           -           67.0  41t.    19.3      -       -       -   .9
TIT0n11W*12E (13lC3 ff        )        556.3  5e.3  5si.3  MM.3  50.3 2101.3  4.0  154.5 A           .3B  763.4  324.4 35.   550.9  5.0  442.6  494.0  749.5 3.31.1
LErtA  ILTAT1M  IT11.M4QIT.) Ie          13.4    4.5      -       -      -   11   14.5    5.2         -       -                  13-7    3.2    4.7  -    -       -   17.9
Toe l MsmE "Mm 1 I                        612.2  su.2  560.3  563.3  5s0.3 2374.2 466.3  110.9  736.3  763.4  324.4 364. . 05.7  619.0  642.6   94.0  749.5 39310.7
S3b-Total T1   9 VAUE  VIM =TIR       E      613.3 1m32.5 1,2.6 1.260.6 IU260.o 5.767.1 74J.3 121.4 1.S90.3 19717.6 lss.0 7.414.!  47.4 1,336.7 1.445. 1,542.4 1.d.317u.6
C. ITIIC71WTTI S113U31Ili
1. IWISS
TOEL     PEt 31                         14.1   14.1   14.2   14.1   14.1   70.4  15.3   16.5   17.3   19.2   23.3  39.6   13.9   1.0  1W2    V7.    13.9   31.5
K.M    T W MtMS                          7.3       -      -       -      -    7.3   9.3        -      -       -      -    9P.3    1        -       -      -       -    8.4
. D-1W                                   1.6    1.6    1.6    1.6    1.4    7.3   1.7    1.3    2.0    2.1    2.3    9.9    1.5    1.7    1.9    1.9    2.1    9.0
Su-Tota   YL0                              23.5   15.7   15.7   15.7   15.7   113.2  26.2   13.3   19.3   21.4   23.1  133.3   23.9   16.7   13.0   19.4   21.0   3.9
2. FEUWS
LIIUL FELIIS t1) /d                      3.1    9.4    9.4    9.4        -   31.2   3.4   10.9   11.3   12.8         -   33.9    3.1    9.9   10.7   11.1         -   35.3
Sewi  FEUl   P S I2 1 2I                   -   17.2   23.3   25J.  17.2   36.1         -   19.2   31.1   33.6    4.2 4   109.       -   17.5   3.3   30.5   22.3   93.2
I_        1 11; 11T tTII113) In          0.9    0.9       -       -      -    1.9   2.0    1.1        -       -      -    2.1    0.9    1.0        -       -      -    1.9
SINT-TDIi FIJ301  (Mt_4  hI                -    35   13.5   13.5   13.5   54.1         -   15.1   16.3   17.6   19.0   68.0         -   13.7   14.    16.0   17.3   61.3
Sgt-TtlI FEIINS                             4.1   41.0   43.7   43.7   33.1  173.3   4.4   46.4   59.2   63.9   43.2  217.0    4.0   42.1   53J.   5.1   39.2  197.3
3. VOWfS ih                                   -   1.4        -       -      -   16.4      -   20.3       -      -       -   20.3       - n13.5        -      -       -   10.
Sub-Tot   ETI1 IOI    S        _3             27.5   73.2   64.4   64.4   4i.4  276.0  30.6   15.0   79.0   95.3   66.2  346.1   27.3   77.3   71.3   77.5   10.2  314.7
Tht  IKST1ET tlS15                              345.2 1,510.6 1.459.9 1U459.9 1.41.9 6717.6 922.3 1U743.0 11139.5 I.M7 2.'19.7 9,36.7   O.9 1f607.3 1.2.3 1.36.1 1,927.0 79151.5
II-. mltOSIS
A. IW13      IS EDINI E (        0M             -    2.3    2.3    2.3    2.3    9.3        -    2.7    2.9    3.2    3.4   12.2         -    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.1   11.1
Total IEUlT 05CT                                    -    2-3    2.3    2.3    2.3    9.3        -    2.7    2.9    3.2    3.4   1.2          -    2.5    2.7    2.9    3.1   11.1
taam   Wa   taat    n..ss.   e, stt  __a   sea   _a    _n  nm                            Sw  Stn  _nm   _na   aes _ _
Toti                                             36.2 1.5)2.9 1.4*2.2 1.462.: 1.44.S 6,727.0 922.8 1,77.7 13642.4 19919.8 2.13.2 0,44.9   M.9 1,609.7 1,674.9 1.135.P 1P30.1 7312J.7
/a I I LTIST FM 2 IIT6CMT Ul3tO0 PEN mIII
i I    T411T *11  TIIDT FE iillK EB.
IC I CI1LT1T       I UTIIST FM On  EL.
id  5 PUS   FMlO  T 1        EA.
/i  2 MM  FM 2105 EL
It 2 3l3NS1  3 6NM  M.
hI    3          1 Fl1  3 M U.
bI    1DS       ST Tlt4 111111



TORe W3. ujmniSIw  wN"T  LiD IU. ammiMM111WIMS(FIVIM
Mm gnu       'rotdo IMIMM Clatiod-11111Total IMad  1atiSwt
1  2      3       4      5   TaOl       1      2      3       4      5  TdA                 1                    4          TatLd
a. RS 456 smaan
I. MMU UtilE iLt? SClr C0111111? LEMUI
MT?in.SMUM                                         546    LI7       -      -             9.3   6.0    4.3       -      -       -   1L.4            3.5    M4       -       -        
MMICa NMrs                                        p1   4a6          -      -       -  11a   na.   .MJ           -      -       -   IAs            do     e1.9                         136.
lilis)' MEIGIsa,                                                                       W  - A?   wV.1   ma      -      -       -  3ma            121.7  ito        .              - . 26M$
SISiRIET 111401               -  121.6       -       -      -  ~~~~~~    ~~~~~~~~122.6  -  142.1  -  -  -  14241              -   ia         -          29.2   1.
Mu4-otW  $111T  Willi  16.1N BMW. 0313           LEER 20243  2624      -      -            LI 212.9  422.4-A                          6433          ii  3111a         .         .       .    24
2. FIRM$ ftS. te1l.
Cut.W LEUL T151111                                 7.7       -                            .7   3.4                                   1A - -  .     7.6      -       -      -            7.6
FIEJnA  ULE. isisB                                 13-3      -      -                   1.   14.4        -      -       -      -    14.4          1M.       -       -      -            11.1
st3R11t Lrn  Tawr.                                35.,       -      -                   s.,  d.a.        -      -       -           a             sa        -       -      -           iA
31301130                                          37.4      -      -              - 2.4  48.5           -      -       .      - 40.              M4                -      -       -   3*.
LiES   S.TUIW  iIEWMSgT.) la                        3.9      -      -       -      -    3.9   4.7        -      -       -      -     1.33                   -       -      -       -    ie
SWAPTotal RULESm  1 . a2NW.                         132.3      -                      - 0. 1233.           -               -      -13.              121.2      -              -      -12.
1.                                                   . .m   R.,
I. aNMFM inmnt
KC8nIIU sUWIS. FESISiA6.3                                                            0          2           -                   -   f*QJ          394       -                           304
LIES   IULTUT (TEDN. ASIST.: ab                     3.9      -      -                     .9   9.7       -                                         LI-0.     -      -       -      -    B
swSINIR IS    NMI    TO Pas TUNh                  123.7      -      -                   13&7 144.6       -      -       -       -144.4            121.3     -       --13114
SeR-Tot  a m 5     PSm CUVTIB                        173.A          -                  -  13.  1W7.1        -              -      - 17.I            19.2       -       -      -       -170.:
2. CISUE) Mg3CPATIN
lisRiaD  Fmnuinz34.3                                         -       -      -       - 34.3  404                  -              - 40.3             274       -                           7.1
'Wa M"TM  (TC. ASIT                                 LI       -       -      -       -           9.7      -                            *-3.                          -       -      -     3
3n33111  Tom  I mini                                  -  712.7  712.   712.7'  712.7 2,0304       -  332W   31.1   MA71.jq4407 3. M514-71.                         74U20 943404
se-mW  suNny 5oflgJpy                                 431    72.   713.   M        M712.7   127  644  50.4   Ci.  399.1   M.14 i,067 3.3014           64   156*   37A   3102.3 M 99.41.4
36k-Total SVUViI   lUM he111r                            2J   ;        - 12.7  717   7127 3,072.6 2.474332.4  31I.   MA.. 1141C- s.maU                 Ma0  i.    67.4  IM2.3 " 1 3.43.43
C. 03339.1 FMiNI heuhIT film. MIWILI
KIEVOMi  FMn,mCM                                      17.4   17.4      -       -       -   24.6  20.0   3.A         -                     .:          13.9   20.4      -       -      -   39.2
SEL. 033TUT (lEE. MSII.p /d                            443    4.5      -       -       -    3.9   4.3    3.2               -       -     .0            4.4    4.7      -       -      -    9.1
RSE  CUJSTif CJa I.iSLm.I O                           14.2  14.2        -      -       -   234  1ILA   16.6         -3-   E                           14W0   15.1      -       -      -   240.
9MRII1UJULm:xTDPUV                                       -    A.,    443    645    65    24.         -    7.6    3.2    3.9    9.6   14.2                -    1.9   7,3    341    L7    31.1
sewin: pm. M Omn.                                        -    aq.i   *.9   49.9   *?.?   9.6        -   533      2. 43.0 A.    73.4  *26.               -   314    57.2    Ma  44    23311
SewONLg: nu. TOin KR                                     -  =6 .:  2U.1  21.1   MI6 1,024.2          -  -,".I  323.0  243.'  V76J 1,167.                 -  v72.9  2M37  3172  362.1,233.
luouLs                                    ~~~~~~~- 6.3   . 6. 3 .      6.3   27.1           7.9    3.6    9.2   13.0   25.7-    7.2    7.3    3.4    9.    3245
se-rail POEM  Kmws  MD srnir (DCM. MEas  3.1  33.4   311.2  21'.2  319.2 L.3493   41.0  417.2  402.7,  433.1                        V 1695170.:          27.3  379.2  346.1  31A.  421.1 1.430.
3. IUTITOTiUL IWUTIS
1. FaLnK
tEA  rnwmAws M5) /ft                                   -   17.2   17.2   17.2   17.2   3.1        -   20.0   21.6   3.A    213    MI.                -   111.2   19.7   21.3   23.0   32.1
AMISS FaLSIPS (521 1                                      121.2  123.2  121.2  121.2  @4.3            135.3  153.0  1574  130.1  433A                 -  122.0      A  1226 :2  154.6  553
IMPAUE 133131  A                                     i.i    4.1    3.1       -      -   10.3   3.3    4.3    3.9                     1 - 22.         3.     4.4    LI        -           11.0
meb-Tot al  m~mii                                      14   142.   142.5  133.   133.   U'    3.1  U16.2  171.4  110.9  195.4  71214                   3.0  16.6  155J   164.4        A 1.644645
N.h-Tail lUTUljta Sh3ESflStA                               2.1  142.3.  1414   223.4  133.A  SP 1   234  164.2  171.4  J30.9  1n'5          u.            340  16.6  155.   114.4  11A,6446.1
Total                                                       565. 1.572.2 1.173.4 j,170.3 1.1733 5,6720 6442.1 1,032.3 j.4?3. 1.1136.91.7j3. 7.2IA           314.4 1,44.7 1,3393 1.442.6 1.S0.1 o,91.A
S *'Sh            W**~~~~~.S    "WOr WWWWWWW         BassiS t--i~Zf
Jr 93t39. OF FI9UMCJIl Ci. FM 6 NM2
M4 FMt Mg. `11111M.:i COS. FM0 MM
I. FOR ELV. 1`111iED.:i CM  FOR 3Nms
/f 1    1 I FM21E0EQ.
/ i M1 FM5921M. LA.
lb   lbU      IFM3NMMUE*.



a12
TrU, Iii. uim       InuIMITin  N a  CIMMICATUU 1W8A
Talh HeT   t BLTble
Totls l           duao C1 1mmocies
lW                          .Tols IKI 1 i1  Cmtile,                                   (333 300!
I     :     2    4    5  bT l        1      :      3      4       5   TOtl          1      2      3       4      S   Totl
_m  __aa        *.          _,       _n   uu   uum           m    u . ._~           *_U uSU  _a.. 8E.._  au_e  _..
I.  TMET conST
A. cmiIu t_7EID  PM   P_TIIIIIJ
1.  EIEMI   w SM IT IESI
I1 S mm                                  7.7      -    -    -    -    7.7   9.2         -      -       -            9.2       3.4      -      -       -      -    8.4
UIUI  COLTI3T5 (MM01. AS5515.1 ,       13.4      -    -    -    -   1.4  14.           -      - -     -           14.5      12.2      -       -      -      - .     2
Sub-TolI EVELfENT OF 51313TTEDIE           21.1      -    -    -    -   21.1  2.7          -      -      -       -   23.7       21.5      -      -       -      -   21.5
2. IUE1117I I MM                          144.2   34.1    -    -    -    113.3  163.3   45.0      -      -       -  213.3      153.0   40.9      -      -       -  192.9
3. EAJMTI IIF UW 
Nwiam NW                                   -    4.0    -    -    -    4.0       -   SL1        -       -      -    5.1         -    4.7       -      -       -    4.7
1L1 CLTMTO  (TIER. AG51IT. h               -    4.5    -          -    4.5      -    5.2       -      -       -    5.2         -    4.7       -      -       -    4.7
-TOtaI EMlTIN ItF 3  UUIN                     -    L5    -    -    -        .5     -   1      0.4 0.4                 -                 9.4      -                     4-  -    *4
Sit>-Tol CWVIE (13MM1T1D PENDN PUMP 115.3   44.5    -    -    -  2.  192.0   55.3                    -      -      - :47.3       174.5   50.3            _ _      -  24.
3. IEK KI3BhlUS EL. 10 5 PUIMS
1. F4IIIATIN OF  STIR
AUESSE     TlbSISISFIENMWu              17.1      -    -    -    -   174  21.2          -      -      -       -   21.2      19.3       -      -      -       -   19.3
UIUL ITUT W(WM.  9IST.1 IC               t.9      -    -    -    -       .9   9.7       -      -      -       -    9.7       LI        -      -       -      -    34
EuESm MOLTRST lTECI. AMR51.) id    13.7           -    -    -    -   11.7  19.7         -      -      -       -   1.        17.9      -       -      -      -   1.9
Sib-Total RAT    W SMTBY                  45.4       -    -    -    -   45.4  50.5        -       -      -      -   5.5        45.9      -       -      -      -   45.9
2. EELINIOT W UITEKIS
11jaN:  1 lI-. STAWFF                      -    4.0  6.0  4.0  4.0   23.9       -     7.7    1.3    9.0    9.7   34.4          -    7.0    7.5    3.1    3.3   31.5
nEiT/MNSISIS U rTERMLS                         29.3 29.3  J.3  29.3  117.0      -   37.4   40.6   43.B   47.4  149.4           -   34.2  3Y.9   3t.9   43.L  154.0
31W5i SATRNLSiE                            -    1.0  1.4  1.0  1.0    4.2       -    1.3    1.4    1.6    1.7    6.0           -    1.2    1.3    1.4    1.5    5.5
EITESTINAAL.. IFICiI   U MT                -   12.2 12.2 12.2 12.2   46.9       -   11.7   11.0  13.3   19.3   70.3            -   14.3   15.4   14.7   13.0   4.4
1.11 l0LIS  tlD. SSIST.I h                 -     -.9  3.?  1.9  3.?   35.7      -   lu.    11.    12.2   13.1   V.0            -    9.5   10.2   11.1   11.9    2.7
Sub-otal EVELWTU MItMS                       -   57.4 57.4 57.4  7.4  2J.7         -   72.    70.4   34.7  91.7  37.8             -   f.1   71.4   77.1   03.3  29.0
3.  3TOI3   UF UIEIEULS                      -  39.0 39.0 39.0 39.0 1236.0         -  35.4  415.7  44.9  44. 1.734.8              -  350.4  377.7  401.1  443.7 1.577.1
4. EVUIMTIS U  3T1E33NSAII
M1M 6 331311TED1. STAFF                    -      -  3.1  4.1  3.1   10.3       -      -    3.3    5.5    4.5   13.0           -      -    3.5    5.0    4.1   12.5
F-.O AERMINT/YtS                           -      - 24.2 35.0 24.2   3.4        -      -   32.6   47.1   3.0  117.4            -      -    J.7   42.7   34.4  104.9
MIrIAFICAI   U M T13NS1A3                  -      -  0.9  1.2  0.9    3.1       -      -    1.3    1.9    1.5    4.7           -      -    1.2    1.7    1.4    4.3
LtDL   1U.T0TS CTMN. M5MS.) /n             -      -  5.4  7.1  5.4   17.3       -      -      .3B   9.7    7.9   24.4          -      -    4.1    *.0    7.2   22.1
SWi-Total E4WM     U E1      .MBI*           -      -  5.  47.4 35.4  11.6         -      -   ".5   64.1   51.9  140.5                  - -   40.5   5.3   47.2  145.
Sub-To aEC 1KTEUINS EL. T0 5  MM             4.4  346.4 402.0 413.9 402.0 1M2.3  3.5  43.2  53.7  597.9  63.4 2WM3               45.9  414.5  40.3  543.5   71.3 2,0669
/a 3 0CI3LT.T UTF11 O RI FNK. F SI1T.. 2 FM IE. UF 110*) FM 3 UKIII E4.
/b FOR E(MUIIDIN: I CULT*NrT FIR 3111K
Ic FRA 511TEil FORDTIM: I 1M B Y4T FOR A NS
/d Wl 5ITM0  F*TIOI: I CU3LTUBT FMl 2 NIMS
it 2 M.LTWIS ll FOR MUG6 BIIIV 1 TI  331TE3I11S 3Eib) B. FIR 3 MM  W ECF W 4 TIS
It 2 2ONSIM  (1 FM N iS 33   I FM 11N1F1*1100 W MT. 0G   FEZ N Oll U EDC  U 3 TMS



SECOND NWTIKT!ON AND C01NUDEITT UNALTR PItOJECT                                                       Fpg 2 of 2
Table 103, 3TRENqfiE3No COMNUNITI NEALTEs CONHUNICATIONN (PEN)
DeCalled Cost Table
CRUPIAN MIlliom)
MIN35 OSJPAEOU. PETF                                -    3.2  3.2  3.2  3.2   12.6         -    4.0    4.4    4.7    3.1   23.2           -    3.7    4.0    4.3    4.6   16.6
LEk CUIILTS3T hEa. *3033) is                        -    1.5  13.  2.5  1.5    5.9        -    1.7    1.9    2.3    2.2    7.3           -    1.6    1.7    1.3    2. 0    7.3
Sub-Total E'JWIDIF OF T*I3IN 9303                      -    4.6  4.6  4.6  4.6   13.6        -    5.3    6.2    6.7    7.3   26.1           -    s.3    3.7   161    6.6   23.
2. IRI2I 5633W (11N1TII
MU. PETF 1161N                                      -   13.2    -    -    -   13.2         -   15.4       -      -       -   15.4        -   14.0       -       -       -   14.0
MIT. SINFFT 1INI35                                  -  24.0    .    .    .  124.0         -  144.9       -      -       -  144.9        -   3.         -       -       -  111.7
FE-lIS. Psta  1361f1                                -  53.9    .    .    .   W10.          -   93M.3      -      -       -  593.3        -  539.3       -       -       -  539.3
Suh-Tota 131125 EMiES 1i11111.3                        -  645.1    -    -      -  665.1       -   m3         -      -           753.6       -  459.1       -       -          15.1
3. MINIM 3316 SZSIuBUpIuI
P . PETF I3*1MM3                                  -       -  3.  13.3  3.1   24.4        -      -   10.2   11.3   11.9   33.4          -       -    9.2   10.3   10.3   30.3
KSTI. ltINFT 13313                                  -       - 61.1 43.  61.1   Am.         -      -   17.1   59.1   90,3  252.V           -      -   70.3   13.0   31.3  229.9
SU3-1R5T. SlTAF  m*3mi5                                     - am.1 259.5 251.3  763.1      -      -  317.7  353.5  370.6 IP041.11        -       -   m0E    321.4  236.9  94M.
Nub-T!"TaLU 13165563  431UPGWS                         -        321.0220.8321.0  97.38                   405.0  450.7  472.4A 32.                   -26O3U.2  409.7  429.4 19207.3
Sub-4otl TRA1.21N6 533( KAM  120  (pI. FpI, poM 2         -  649.7M3.7 2A25. S.71.636.              759.3  411.2  457.4  4792.72107.7          -   903  373.9  415.8  436411 16.1*
3. INSNTTUTIUhII STIOUIEIs
1. PLMUINI
KgBJASf  OF 59A1334S                                 -    1.3  1.3  1.3  1.3    7.1        -    2.3    2.5    2.6    2.9   10.2           -    2.1    2.2    2.4    2.6    9.3
amES 631329                                          -   35.5 15.5  15.5  15.5   61.9      - 13.1   19.5   21.1   22.8   31.5                 1 6.4  1V.3   19.2   23.7   74.1
Nob-Total 91A1311                                       -   17.2 17.2 17.2  17.2   19.0       - 20.4   22.0   23.7   2S.6   91.7                 13.5   20.3   21.6   23.3  83.4
2. DJJU3IIP
LrAL FEMLiUVS 611) /h                                    12.3  12.5 12.5  6.2   43.7      - 14.6   13.    37.0    9.22  56.5            - 13.3   14.3   15.3    3.3   51.4
MW NEi.FBJ.3HI  (52) /I                              -   u.J  3.1 43.1    -  215.3         -    6.   103.6   55.9         -   M.7        -       4   94.2  13.9            Z122.4
Lou"  T131N3i6l                                    2.3    1.9    -    -    -    4.7   3.0    2.2          -       -       -    'i 2     2.3    2.0              -  -         4.7
SO-T-IM A.SUS (64ERSE*  A                            -      . 13.5 13.3 13.   3.5   54.1   -   15.1   116.3   17.6   19.8   61.0         -   13.7   14.3   36.0   17.3   61.0
IIIIEmnUTISNEETI5N,s1                                -    6.2  6.2  6.2    -   13.53       -    6.9   71.4    3.0         -   22.3       -    6.2    6.       7.3      -   23.2
Sub-Total FELLHIPS                                    2.1  123.1 111.3 75.2  19.3  336.2   2.0  134.9  143.0   90.3   21.2  407.6         2.3  122.6  130.0   396   25.6  370.6
3. TEOCILU 6SSSTOM
0.0t(4  OIILTMIT is                               33.7  131.1 33.7    -    -   IM3.4  35.4  112.9   40.5          -       -  lBS9    32.2  102.6   36.9         -      -11.
L.(6 CUISL.T*3T 1.                                 5.4   16.1  5.4    -    -   26.3   5.3   13L3    6.31                  -   31.3      5.3   17.1    6.1       -      -   20.5
Sub-Total TM1302CAL NMI3TUM                          39.0  117.13 1.0      -    -   193.2  41.2  13.6   47.3         -       -  220.1    37.4  119.7   43.0        -      -233.1
4. VIEAIIJ -o  16.4    -    -    -   16.4                                                      -   20.3      -  -            -   20.2       -   13.5       -       -      - 33.3
Nu.h-Total IMMUIIIJTIOEL        n                       41.9  270.9 174.  92.  37.0  616.3  44.2  W0.2  212.3  122.3   53.3  739.3   40.2  239.3  193.0  311.1   43.9  612.3
Total RVESTNE111 C361                                      M.6 19331.6 902.2 341.7 764.7 4.092.1 236.7 IPM3.0 1.312.3 19177.3 1I161.9 5,343.4   260.7 1,416.4 1.56.6 19073. 1.56.2 4.1W.4
ir. sewof com
.1. IPEDTIS NO 102II1IflCE 3(3130ME2                            2.3  2.3  2J   2.3    9.3        -    2.7   22.9    3.2    2.4   12.2               2.5    2.7   I..9    3.1   11.1
Total FLNJT COST                                                    2.3  2.3  2.3  2.3    9.3          ___2.7 _ 2.9   3.2 __3.4 1.. 22          _ -_2.5    2.7    2.9    3.1   31.1
TOUI                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~252.6 I.334.3 904.6 364.1 767.0 4v132.3  23I.7 1.5.3 19113.2 1,133.7 1.135.3 5,30.7  260.7 1.431.9 1O.35. 1.,073.3 I.0.4 4901.5
/I  I C3ISLT*T FM  3 N0fUV EMU W 4 ERS
lb 73        FORTE2  M EA.
/I SP3NOFgt2 MEA.
Ii S P6M  FM 3333134 El.
Ik  3     FOR3I3JM4NEA.
Il FM 6 NTIN9S
/a 6(N. I 036.TUiT FOR ia niw;. 913 cOiuICATIg
la I OLIMO   CIILTA5   FOR 13 11T31
IiI ImlIS   S161J310223



1. IIMTMIff con ~ ~     ~        ~       ~       ~       513  UII
"Am  lm  /a ~        ~         ~          bteiea.10..Tada   1 1
to Immul~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~i  e
3  234A                       4         .   1. STaIS  224   WTI  7.   13       4W29.   . s ILI
2. m e c-ow
lam"P131005                 P~304  3.4-  34.4  2610.43.4   MA.  31.  32.2 32.1 44 35. 3L     41.0  13.  114  31.9 32.  3L2.  3.
m edo  330   .0  .3                                           3     29.9   3.69.1  14.3 349U                           3507  .1 649.2  9.9  3.7 44.
640-.3.                                J '*T  04 Z.4  15.4 23A2.4 3   112.80 1 39.323.132  31.1 27.3  366.   MI. 29.1 236   .1 31.32    164.7
skTa U i                                                       1U4 432.12.   4:3.,  3.   3.  34     33 4 3..0   3.7  23.4  22.  3.3  U-2  256.9
ISMe   3osE1.3  13.3 U.   12.1  13.3                               L 1.  2.  33.3  tA14.9 U .6 1  17.  493.  1.2  133.  1.41.635    43
m eGWI                                 23.  23.4 3. 2.4 2A2.4  3Mt.  234  U7          9.  3.1.3  04 4   24.24.  24.3  23.3  3.9 23.2  114.
4J-Ota 31 1i11nS                       22.4  22.4  23.4.4  22.4  126  .1 2231         4    .63.4      14.84 3 4U  23.0 24.6 2.3  3.9  31I  124.
110-laid IUmI  3739,                       7 71 771.4            77I.M  6   .2  144  .0 3.7    ; 9 3 .034.  432.   71.3 3 .539.  91. 13.   4479
I. ni ANa   Nv    =
3.31333 IMPAWE   gm.1  3.11121    .    3                                    46 .   1.2  1.4   3.3 1.4 349   3.   14.32         .3 1.42      .2
2.U3D  T1T13     IB30   l .1r           2.4  2,   24   .   2.4   12.9   2.42.   3. 2.3    .35   3J    2.4  -.  2.7  -.  349   32.3
4.lW.931W L3U                           7.ldIL  -    -  7.     -   34.2   7.7    -    -  9.       -   17.3417.0    -    -    -.      -   1Lu
n4*-ToW      mSsm to                    32.   6.46.4  33.3 1.    4.2  342.6     74  .           1.49.4   3.4  13.3     a.3  7 47 369  '3.7-
mTd       miiw. v Dow         2o b1.6    -L 2                71 .6   13.3  CA9         1.7      M.54    33. 9 2.6    - m 4.           .3   32.,
UM CDWTMN is                4.4  -. 24.6 23-  43.4   396.5  263.1   3.23  1-6  9.               24 244 4      7.5 2L    3.A   22.
me-lad jrWiMiT AmE          It          ZI 32.3    -  324        12.0   29.1 4.8 .3 2.17.17.   19.3   40.0 2.7 -2.    1 54 7        17.    4.J2M
2. FUMIPI
3511MNIMS mJd I                       713 7.2 1        -     - 15l  .2 64   .1    -    -             16.3    . 14.3-    -    -    -   14.3
FlMU S 3341?   IP 1a   n    ImA         -34  - 40.1        - 533   7.4   2.  IL   74.7    - 14      21.3    -13.5     1 6.9    -  4.9  31.3
Wt"   FUUNWS                   -~73.   -40.2 7   - 50.    9.3  23.3  - 7.72 -1  04.4   .1  71.4 -2. 147.               -       -. :.
Ta-Ia    U13 M    ITIMIID   966g    Wb .S       2 7    -    71       LI..    7.3    - 914     - - 102.    37.    334     3.2 -    94234.
YmU       in3iUS   lb                    4.1    4214222..3  133.  MA 1.  5. 14.            7   -.  2314  -O 42.7 441r03           -7 9.
I.eTod "AIMIE mef COM                   22.  452441      3    33    61.3  I. 7U 4  .33953   2.   2.   ZI0  67.41273.06                    203
4.      LUM  IT1A33  I.                 - 1.    -2   -    -   27.2         33.1    1. -    - -     3. -  1     2.7 3.3 .   -   .    734
Tow   -toai  CIM~ 9                        7.4 311.2  I 32.3    -0  1-     723.4   24.2    7 44L -X   14.9  70.7 227.0 14.0 MA    -I  1946.3
2.  956135    imp
31225I   #   VIPEIT2L 13.1                      21.3    * .  2-        .129 A2626.3. 14.    1.  MA    25.0  29.3 12.5 n-   M          -.  U223
1.4-laid fl.11m ~1313561      26.4  16.2   I  - -           3734. -          -    -    -      1.    233.4        -     -    - 4.
TdI4 355133313L3  2                               2.13.01.  321.5330.7A 5.022  24.423      MI7291705   .1.22.9  247  .797.07. 191. 292.  1.1944
lotl                                         2134 20.7 29.1171.2 241.351.39.3  294.3 24.9239.3222.7 24.93I.43242 .0 219.32267237.63J19.61I312
lb 56,34. PR-MUM17 V M FOIu. I3NM.MO
IC I cmZE! 132 =M  Fe   o3  j..
Id 66139FM
/O v"9  56fLB                3936356.
If    IIAUIUS0L  Iscro         W TE PS.4
' S If P iMIT CIMUN. U9 umiev p221. 56115
lb U 1E P11W06. TT
A  I              ITIUS   N3u31.3



mM
mms mniwm asMIT "tosw inu"~
T     LUW5,M1100  I TIMI 14I4 I
hi. CaILI                                  ?et~~~~~~~us laedtr C 't 1*10 ii
.    ..   . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~  ~   .....
3                                  Jt.                        2          3          4         5        Toa                                 245                            15
I. ZIIFMIIU  05111
A. WI bMOT PA
*tNKasiM   s=    bK  msi.0         sW0    26".   VlW             NOMA01  241.1044o-      MV.   220:444:   22o.40.0   MiM44.4  2XPW40. 1.140.N400.    24040::.  140.W.   246.1,  loo".                     41.* 1.4U.0.4
M U rN ANN . CHICO  "To        00.0  220,40.4  224,00.420 44. 22MM         4MIMS1.104440V.    220.400.4  224,014104  210.04.0  2204,440  224o.*10100014 .144    NO9.oU0  244.00.   muss.  2e,u.0  2tmw., :.w.o
CwAIIT omm .                     2040.   2040.   220,4.   22m0,4.   22400 11144.4400    22004    224,4,0  220,400.0  220,100,19,00.6 01.114441. 200.1  ,444 l00.0  2                         441144,9  NO.100.0 mmA MW.S 1.4uv444
FM421. ?UItd                    220f,805    L69.00.0  224,444.   220,40  2204900.0 litIM4040    220P.0410   2NsM,OS,   2M0,O4.   MM,oo.    Wift*.  1000,0.64.    M,u.in          Xmo.w.   ou.mo   20,aso   u,.w.o i."4wo
WWTeI a4 5415  vim               1.4,4.  .4.141104.1144.0,1.4.                            1S499 ,.oo4144                 01.10.1004, 1144,40.0 1.140".9 Mild0"444  i.s.ooeo s.41.0. 1I.4N0W.4l.*.1OvI' 1.16411 ,0' s.oo.4
J11ii  i.l40.440.0 1,1044.10  1.10.00. I,l00.m0.  1,10101,441.W.0  1.144.0 1       4.0 1.1449 .0 Itit                                                       a      . li    o
sflfSflUS  . .  .f ......  . .......................                     b ,m
..........S .......... ............ - *--'S . . .........  .........fii .......____



|1~~~ ___             - -
0- X 
;~ 3l1$i     i: ,i 11111



- 49 -
&M  3
Pp 2 of 5
Cardar Year                     1985      1986      1987        1988       1989       1990        1991
moo 1    Iuly-Jure)                 ra 6       1 r17     1r        rn89        r1 Y9         91    I
Gowt. IN  (rlt-Hrd)               85/86      86187      87/88      88189      89/90      SD/91     91/92
k2 PPiamltL., I_*e__t & ___-ewisiom                  
0)- meriamzl1ui
- Plwamg  (TEg.) Activiti_
- Evabistlon
- Pla=iuLrg Fe1aluhb4ps
DLatrit, Stb1ditrict)
(ll) Supetvisdon and! QIIwe
iweIndtLig !Mdtoriig)
Dervelq t of MateiCals
ad! marirdig Imt1Awiuao
- SFvon d_oaitorl                                         __
(1 NtiDlom  Cqafgn
(ii)ive prgr      E MaterLas
- FozmtioL n of S tIatMI
- DwtA/rW. of materials                                                                  -
- Evabhtion of Mateials
(iii Traini    of lader ntralm
- Tradn!ig MateriAlta Den.
- Tra1iiL
(IV) Irtiu=iocat Streigtlunix
-p1aun&ig !m1zms
~Fe1Uslp                                  - -     -           ---                         
- &q*lation of Vehic3es
-Teclwd aAssiftam                        - -- 



- 50 -
AMR 3
Pqe 3 of 5
-.ar Yew                         1986       1- 98                  i         1987  1988  1989  1l99  1991
I) ni (ur-ji                    _      flM6      r7          FM8        FMl9       FM90        FY91
Gmt. T (jz11-urr                   85/86       86/87      87/88       88/89      89/9_      90/91      91/92
A.4 Izdty Health Se___ iat
-ILtxxevmEA Stof f 
-Prcgrma W~aalitloi
- kqusitln of Vd_ele/IEquipt.
-FeLlobuLpsIII                                                       I     I    III        I     If
-TeducalAinuta                              I--- _              _      
A.5 0Rntlo  SupIWozt F mx
W Cesi)Ebility SNtxdi
(Ii) Eutdhalamtt oE TWIS Te
twlztlu & District Im_els)                                   - - -              t
(il) E.tblIJu.i of NatloAa.
suppm unit
(iv) Acquition of Vehic]eEpt.
B.2 MmtritionMnodtoritg & Aoemm
(i) Su_vey/eAr c                                          _   _  +     _ _  _     _ _       - +            I
(ii) Mqusition of Velclmes/qpt.
|B3 NtritlonPblily &PrPgruStum                      - - _    _  _   -   _ _ _ _ _ _   +   _     - 
|A Nutrition InEo riton Unit
(i) EatdbisIu.it ',f Undt
(ii) Staff Dewt._Tra_nirg
W il)hoEquiain _f Equi__                                                                    _
NoterUas--                          ---       ~-               -    - ~ .I.   ----



- 51 -
J3
Fqp . of 5
CalAdr Year                     198i      1986i     1987        198"8                1'99       1919
IW F! TJuly-J)                      Fm      i     7       Pm           m9        19   I      91
wt. nY (Ag1-Had3)          _        /6  __/87          W87/88      88/89 _9_9 _ _ /91              919_
C. micritlon MuW"2sm ftwe1oiu.1
C.1 Parqical M_rmm
(1) DwilpelM of Sdh~ooWkKisf.
I Prefration of loIamms
-cipdtion of Ruftgwe,
Equdipia, Vebdc3es,
(IL)  dzziDl Q~a1ity
-  II&VmmAdWLI -n
C.2 Grakmte MwAwpm
- Preparation of Doauetits
- ThnkLr
- Omiutmin
- Acdabton of  wTwe
Vebicles
(1   ivitstry of Agricul  tuewizu
- DwupelW of Ctwm
- ILsm3r.a*sn of Ome 



-52 -                                         aa 
co1 Yew                                  198       1987      1988       1989       19wD        1991
m .,   I                     .,I           I   .,   'I   J
zI   TY _ ae6 ns  I                  86       FMM)                              nm        FM
Gwt. 2Y (41-Mwdi)             F         . _ 86/87  -     A_87/88  88/89   _    9       9D/91    ,1!
0I1  FoW aid ltiU                   l1Tcy
- Ruldsr _ _ lat 
- kquiaitlou of &q1dwm



- 53 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data in the Proiect File
A. Selected Reference Materials Related to the Sector
A.1 Indonesia: Health Sector Overview. Report No. 2379-IND, February,
1979.
A.2 Indonesia: Health Sector Update. (White cover drsft). September,
1981.
A.3 Indonesia: Health Sector Review. (White cover draft). March, 1983.
A.4 Indonesia: Public Investment Review - Health Sector (draft).
Decedber, 1984.
A.5 Indonesia: Financial Resources and Human Development in the Eighties.
Report No. 3795-IND. May, 1982.
A.6  Indonesia; Selected Issues in Spatial Development.  Report No.
4776-IND. April, 1984.
A.7 The Health Situation of Indonesia: (Statistical Profile). Compiled by
the Bureau of Planning, Department of Health, Indonesia, for the ESCAP
Programme on Health and Development: Health Technical Paper
No.70/PDH 20, 1984.
A.8 Government of Indonesia: Fourth Five-Year Development Plan
(Repelita IV), Chapters 10, 23 and 25.
A.9 Health and Population Sector Profile (draft). Asian Development
Bank. February, 1983.
A.10 Background Information for USAID/Indonesia: Indonesia Nutrition
Strategy - January, 1983.
A.11 Evaluation of the Indonesia Nutrition Development Project, Vol.I.
Ministry of Health, September, 1982.
A.12 Nutrition Review. Population, Health and Nutrition Department, World
Bank, April, 1984.



- 54 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 2
A.13 Working Paper to Formulate a Strategy for the Integrated Approach to
Community Health Services, Ministry of Health, January 10, 1985.
A.14 Child Survi'al and Development in Indonesia, 1985-1989. Master Plan
of Operations, UNICEF.
A.15 Fajans, Peter and H. Sudioan. The Indonesian National Family
Nutrition Improvement Programme (UPGX): A Case Study of Seven
Villages. Submitted to UNICEF/Jakarta. September, 1983.
A.16 UPGK Evaluation, Nutrition Research and Development Center, Bogor
Agricultural University, June, 1982.
A.17 Village Family Planning/Mother Child Welfare - Mid Project
Evaluation. USAID/Jakarta, November 1982 (Document 2285A).
A.18 Nutrition I Project (Loan 1373), Project Completion Report.
B. Selected Materials Related to the ProJect
3.1 Architect's Working Papers, Paramedical Nutrition Manpower Development
Component, November, 1984.
B.2  Nutrition Manpower Development Proposal, Ministry of Health, March,
1985.
B.3 Integrated Health, Nutrition and Family Planning Proposal, Ministry of
Health, March, 1985.
B.4 Master Plan for the Food and Nutrition Surveillance System for
1984-1990, Directorate of Nutrition, Ministry of Health.



- 55-
IlNDONESIA_
Second Nutrition and Co=mmity Health ProJett
The Structure of the Ministry of Health
.w Gom              "W    NWa_                                                a
{3~~~~sf
I   t[StX1 Q$Et1~~~~~~~~~~~W                                     .d
.~~~~~~~a SW l                              -  "                               . 
H         -EEl                        -{F1                    -[H1~~~~mw 
g _S | | Db_d | r _ X MdW
q I i__1 -Mm- kt&_ I
_S   :                      I                   _S NW                     S
_u_ ._ I I ' .,k   lb
_< Z r _ ~~~NdM



ibA      :=A    ,PNOraICNR
yEffi                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SCNNTMOADOMNfYELHRJC
PRIORITYPROV~~~~INEAOURTOTANGNTTIS



