Documunt of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11997
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
(LOAN 2636-IND)
JUNE 16, 1993
Population and Human Resources Operations Division
Country Department III
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
NAME OF CURRENCY: RuPIAH
AT APPRAIsAL (10/85): US$ = RuPIAH 1,100
1986/87:  US$1 = RuPIAH 1,100
1987/88:  US$1 = RUPIAm 1,644
1988/89:  US$1 = RUPLAH 1,686
1989/90:  US$1 = RUPIAH 1,770
1990/91:  US$1 = RUPLAH 1,843
FISCAL YEAR
APRIL 1 - MARCH 31
ABBREVIATIONS
BAPPENAS        :    NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT PLANNING AGENCY
BPGD            :    INTERSECTORAL NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT BOARD
CHNIII                THIRD COMMUNITY HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CRDN                  CENTER FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN NUTRITION
GMSK                  DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY NUTRITION AND FAMILY
RESOURCES
GOI                   GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
IPB             :    INSTITUTE OF AGRICULTURE, BOGOR
KAP                   KNOWLEDGE, ATTITUDES AND PRACTICES
LKMD                  VILLAGE SELF-RELIANCE BOARD
MCH                   MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH
MOEC                  MINISTRY OF EDUCATION AND CULTURE
MOF                   MINISTRY OF FINANCE
MOH                   MINISTRY OF HEALTH
NCHII           :    SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
NFPCB                 NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COORDINATING BoARD
PEM             :    PROTEIN-ENERGY MALNUTRITION
PKK:    WOMEN'S ORGANIZATION IN THE COMMUNITY
PKM                   CENTER FOR HEALTH EDUCATION
PKMD                  VILLAGE COMMUNITY HEALTH DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
PSM                   DIRECTORATE OF COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
REPELITA        :    FIVE-YEAR DEVELOPMENT PLAN
SAR             :    STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SKDN                  CHILD GROWTH MONITORING SYSTEM
SUSENAS         :    SOCIOECONOMIC HOUSEHOLD SURVEY
TBA                   TRADITIONAL BIRTH ATrENDANT
TOR                   TERMS OF REFERENCE
TPG                   NUTRITION PROGRAM IMPLEMENTORS
TUA                   BUDGET ADMINISTRATION
TWIS                  TIMELY WARNING AND INTERVENTION SYSTEM
UNICEF                UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND
UPGK                  FAMILY NUTRITION IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
USAID                 UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
VCDC                  VILLAGE CONTRACEPTIVE DISTRIBUTION CENTER
WHO                   WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Offic o Diredor-General
Oprautons Evaluation                                                              June 16, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Indonesia
Second Nutrition and Community Health Project (Loan 2636-IND)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Indonesia - Second Nutrition and Community
Health Project (Loan 2636-IND) prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Regional Office. Part II was
prepared by the Borrower.
This project aimed to improve the effectiveness of nutrition and community health programs
in reducing infant, child, and maternal mortality. The principal method of doing so was to strengthen
individual services and to deliver them as an integrated package through health posts owned and
operated by the communities themselves.
The outcome is rated as satisfactory. The project approach is likely to prove sustainable
because of commitment to the approach at the community as well as at national level and the signing
of a follow-on project to continue the expansion of the system. Institutional development is rated
as partial: a great deal remains to be done to sustain field staff motivation, improve counselling and
health education techniques, decentralize program administration and build a research policy and self-
evaluation capability.
The PCR provides an informative account of project implementation. An audit is planned.
Attachment
This documrent has a restrcted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their oftcial duties. fts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITON AND COMMUNITY HEALTH
(LOAN 2636-IND)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE    ...............................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ........              .........................      i
PART I PROJECT REVIEW AND BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ...............   ......................        1
1. Background.                                                           1
2.      Project Objectives and Description.                              2
3.   Project Design and Organization.                                    5
4.  Project Implementation.                                              7
5.  Project Results .13
6.   Project Sustainability .15
7.  Borrowers Performance .18
8.  Bank Performance .19
9.  Project Relationships .20
10.  Consulting Services .20
11.   Project Documentation and Data .20
12.  Lessons Learned .21
PART Ik BORROWER'S REVIEW
1.   Description of the Project .24
2.      General Conclusion of the Achievement .28
3.      The Strength and the Weakness of NCH-II Project .35
4.   The Bank and Project Performance .36
5. Problems .38
PART I[L STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1.  Related Bank Loans .40
2.  Project Timetable .41
3.      Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement .42
4.  Project Implementation .43
5.   Project Costs and Financing .46
6.  Status of Covenants .48
7.  Use of Bank Resources .49
& Studies .51
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECI CDOWMPLETION REPORT
ERDONESIA
SECOND NUTRMON AND COMMUNrIY HEALTH
(LOAN 2636IND
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Nutrition and
Community Health Project, for which a loan of USS 33.4 million to the Government of the
Republic of Indonesia (GOI) was approved in December 1985. The project was closed in
December 1991, as originally scheduled. About 95 percent of the loan was disbursed.
The Preface, Evaluation Summary, Part I and Part HI of this PCR were prepared
Vicente B. Paqueo (EA3PH) and Dr. Iswandi (RSI) and reviewed by EA3PH. Part II was
prepared by GOI. The PCR was prepared in accordance with the guidelines for preparing PCRs,
issued in June 1989. The report is based on data provided by GOI, a review of World Bank
records, evaluation studies, and field visits in Indonesia in 1991 and 1992.






- jjj -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
SECOND NURITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH
(LOAN 2636-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
At the time of appraisal in July 1985, overall health status of the Indonesian
population, especially of mothers and children, remained far from satisfactory despite gains during
the previous twenty years. Under those circumstances, improved maternal and child health (MCH)
services together with a strengthened nutrition program were an obvious priority.
The project, therefore, aimed at increasing the effectiveness and efficiency of the
Government's nutrition and community health programs to reduce infant, child, and maternal
mortality. This objective would be achieved by: (a) strengthening the coordination and management
of the five key community health programs (family planning, maternal and child care, nutrition,
immunizations, and diarrhoeal disease control) in eleven priority provinces, including direct
operational support to each of these five programs; (b) further developing Indonesia's nutrition
surveillance capability in four areas (timely warning and intervention, nutrition monitoring and
assessment, nutrition policy and program studies, and nutrition information); and (c) strengthening
nutrition manpower development at the paramedical and graduate levels.
The main emphasis was to strengthen the coordination of the five priority community
health programs at integrated service delivery posts (posyandu). These are health posts organized,
owned and operated by the community themselves. The underlying hypothesis was that by making
all five health interventions simultaneously available at predictable times (e.g. once a month) and at
an easily accessible place, their utilization would increase, as access to them would become more
convenient. Moreover, this expected effect would be reinforced by a promotion campaign based on
social marketing methodology.
Implementation Experience
Overall implementation was satisfactory. Although compliance was at times delayed,
GOI generally followed the loan covenants. And where adjustments had to be made, they were
carried out with Bank agreement and in conformity with the objectives of the loan. GOI's ownership
of the project was quite high; and so was its commitment to sustained implementation. Hence,
despite problems encountered during the first few years of project implementation, government
nevertheless completed the project, as originally scheduled.



- iv -
Out of the total loan of $ 33.4 million, GOI spent $ 31.8 million. About five percent
of the loan fund remained unspent. All the activities prescribed in the SAR, however, (with some
adjustments) were fully carried out. The unspent balance was partly due to the depreciation of the
local currency.
The discussion in Section 4 presents the project's "physical" accomplishments in terms
of the type of project assistance provided and in relation to targets. On the whole, it would appear
that the physical targets had been achieved. In fact, in some cases, they had even been exceeded.
The project had implemented the training activities, the promotional campaigns and the provision of
supplies/equipment to facilitate the expansion and improvement of posyandu and other MCH
initiatives. Construction of facilities had been completed. Staff and curriculum development had been
carried out. The various studies and activities intended to improve Indonesia's nutrition surveillance
capability had also been implemented.
The quality of implementation, however, suffered for a number of reasons. For
example, the cascade training provided to "kaders" (posyandu volunteer workers) was quite poor; the
feasibility studies for the Timely Warning and Intervention System (TWIS) were inadequate; and the
supervision manuals were not user-friendly. One reason for poor quality implementation was that
supervision and training resources were spread too thinly over 11 eleven provinces (more, in some
instances). Other reasons include: lack of familiarity with procedures, standards and timing relating
to the processing of Bank-funded projects; failure to fully and expeditiously staff the Project
Secretariat; inadequate GOI funds for supervision; and lack of counterpart funds due to
macroeconomic problems.
Nevertheless, the timely completion of the project could be justly considered a
noteworthy achievement, especially when compared to other projects in Indonesia and in view of the
following results.
Proiect Results
A definitive assessment of health and nutrition outcomes due to the project is not
available at present. But, to the extent possible, Section 5 provides some clues. The overal
conclusion from available survey data is that the project had most likely achieved significant positive
results. The following selected information gives a flavor of those results:
(a)  The number of posyandus had expanded from about 89,000 in 1986 to over 170,000 in
1991 in the eleven provinces.
(b)  Utilization of posyandu has also increased considerably between 1986 to 1991. In
particular, the number of mothers who had been to a posyandu had increased from 66
percent to 80 percent.
(c)  The percentage of respondent mothers' youngest children who had ever been weighed
rose from 41 percent to 77 percent.
(d)  Growth charts are now widespread, with 77 percent of mothers claiming to have one
chart for their youngest child.



- v -
(e)  Immunization coverage had increased substantially between 1986 and 1991 (see table
on page 14). For example, the percentage of youngest children immunized for DPT1
(diphtheria, polio, tetanus) rose from 47 percent to 96 percent. Of these, 70 percent
obtained their immunization at posyandus (up from 30 percent in 1986).
(f)   Clearly, the posyandus have now become the most important vehicle for DPT1, polio,
and measles immunizations and, to some extent, for tetanus shots for pregnant mothers.
In this regard, it is noteworthy that over 70 percent of mothers also claimed that they
had received their education about immunization at a posyandu.
The project's impact is further illustrated by its child feeding action sheets that were
distributed at the posyandus. Roughly half a million mothers had received those action sheets. Of
those who had them, 80 percent claimed that they had changed their child feeding practices
(primarily, by increasing feeding frequency) as a result of the information.
Finally, analysis of the above-mentioned survey data had noted these two important
results: (1) 90 percent of mothers regard posyandu services to be beneficial; and (2) communities now
have a strong sense of ownership of posyandus. The project has contributed to these results by
improving the credibility of the posyandu and by supporting a social marketing strategy that promoted
not only the use of posyandu services but also the idea of community ownership and participation.
The above results are only part of the potential contribution of NCH H. There are
others, but they cannot be quantified in terms of health outcomes or indicators. For instance, the
roughly five hundred staff members who had completed their followships (about 400 local and 100
overseas) would be an important source of trained personnel for further nutrition and community
health development effort. Those fellowships are mostly likely to lead to institutional strengthening.
Not all the project activities, however, have resulted in positive outcomes. For example,
the supervision manuals provided by the project were hardly used. Moreover, TWIS proved not to
be very usefuL
Project Sustainability
Many of the beneficial effects of the project appear to be sustainable. Among the
factors favorable to sustained implementation of initiatives supported by NCH II are: strong
intersectoral consensus among Indonesian policy-makers (including Indonesia's President Suharto)
about the posyandu strategy and other MCH initiatives based on community ownership and
participation; a strong sense of community ownership of posyandu; acceptance by the communities
of the responsibility of delivering the five basic family services; and a positive perception by mothers
that posyandus provide beneficial services. In addition, economic growth and continued reduction
in poverty throughout Indonesia are expected to enable many more communities to shoulder a
greater percentage share of the cost of community health services over time. Moreover, with
improving public finance, GOI would be able to fund puskesmas (health centers) and higher level
health bureaucracies to support community-based health and nutrition interventions. On the
manpower development goal, commitment from top government officials is quite strong. In addition,
although they remain in need of further strengthening, government units at the center and local
government levels now have a relatively stronger manpower and institutional capacity on which to



vi
build more ambitious and more decentralized community health and nutrition projects (compared to
five years ago).
There are, however, critical constraints that must be recognized to avoid unrealistic
expectations. Some of those constraints prevent full realization of the benefits that could be derived
from NCH II. The issues here include: the lack of capacity of health centers to supply consistent,
integrated services to all posyandus; the high 'kader" dropout rate; the need for central and provincial
capacity to regularly produce fresh counselling, promotional, and health education materials; the
stifling effect of bureaucratic fragmentation and top-down decision-making on community
participation and coordinated support of posyandus; and the continuing need of the Institute of
Agriculture (Bogor) to further develop the staff of its Department of Community Nutrition and
Family Resources (GMSK).
GOI and the Bank have taken steps to ensure that the accomplishments achieved under
NCH H would be carried forward. Foremost of these is the Community Health and Nutrition Project
(CHN E), which had recently been approved by the Board. This project aims at improving the
health status of mothers and children based on community participation and enhanced local capacity
at planning, implementation and evaluation of Safe Motherhood, Child Survival and Nutrition
interventions. Another related initiative is the ongoing Third Health Project, which includes
innovative pilot activities designed to address issues regarding decentralized and integrated planning
and budgeting.
Lessons Leamed
The following highlights some selected lessons from the NCH II experience (See Section
12 for more details):
(a)  The most important lesson is thatposyandu works to a considerable extent, and that it
could be made to work even better. Five main elements underpin the relatively
successful posyandu strategy for improving community nutrition and family health: (i)
choice of effective but underutilized interventions with high potential demand and
simple technological and delivery requirements; (ii) coordinated delivery of those
interventions, making them available simultaneously at predictable times (e.g., once a
month) and at easily accessible places in the community; (iii) a strong sense of
community ownership and commitment to supportposyandu operations and ensure their
effectiveness through vigorous community participation (e.g., contribution of volunteer
labor and other resources); (iv) a broad national consensus, from the President down to
the community; and (v) promotion based on social marketing methodology.
(b)  The posyandu, however, is not a panacea: There are serious limitations to what the
posyandu system can deliver.
(c)  Implementation of a workable Timely Warning and Intervention System (TWIS) is quite
complex and its apparent conceptual simplicity can be misleading.
(d)  Successful economic development could overtake in a relatively short period of time
implementation of certain project activities and, consequently, cast doubt on their
continued relevance (e.g. TWIS).



viu
(e)   The value of training puskesmas staff in planning can be quite high; but training benefits
can be fully realized only if key decentralization issues are effectively addressed.
(f)   The project successes and failures appear to depend on the following design and
organizational factors:
(i) choice of components based on realistic appraisal;
(ii) involvement of all relevant bureaucracies;
(iii) scale of the project or extent of coverage;
(iv) drive and capacity of the Project Secretariat;
(v) flexibility to adjust to changing local conditions;
(vi) a solid and constructive mid-term review; and
(vii) effective supervision.






- 1 -
PROJEC COMPLEON RT
INDONESIA
SECOND NtllRTION AND COMMUNrTY HEALTH
PART k PROJECr REVEEW AND BANICS
Prnijet idetity
Project Name     : Second Nutrition and Community Health
Loan No.         : Loan 2636-IND
Loan Amount      : US$33.4 million equivalent
RVP Unit         : East Asia and Pacific Region
Country          : Indonesia
Sector           : Population and Human Resources
Subsector        : Population, Health and Nutrition
1. Bm*pd
1.1        At the time of appraisal in July 1985, overall health status of the
Indonesian population remained far from satisfactory despite gains during the previous
twenty years. Health status had lagged behind that of comparable countries, and its
epidemiological profile had essentially remained unchanged during the past decade. The
most prevalent causes of mortality and morbidity continued to include infectious,
parasitic and gastrointestinal diseases that were mostly preventable or treatable through
simple, low-cost therapy. Moreover, despite the fact that available calories and protein
were sufficient in the aggregate to meet minimum daily requirements, protein-
malnutrition (PEM) remained a serious problem and a major contributor to Indonesia's
still high infant mortality rate. Under those circumstances, and considering the high
levels of maternal, child and infant mortality, improved maternal and child health
(MCH) services together with a strengthened nutrition program were an obvious
priority.
1.2        The Fourth National Five-Year Development Plan, 1984-89 (Repelita
IV), aimed, among others, at reducing infant mortality rate (IMR) by 30 percent by
1988iS9. GOI recognized that IMR was not only a key indicator of the population's
overall health status but also a crucial determinant of contraceptive use.
13         Against this background, Repelita IV emphasized the need for widespread
access to and effective delivery of health (including nutrition and family planning)
services through two principal avenues. The first was through strengthening of health
centers and subcenters. This included expansion of primary health care facilities to



- 2 -
hitherto underserved areas and improvement of their services and utilization by
developing additional paramedical personnel those facilities. The second avenue was
through improved outreach from these centers and strengthening community-level
programs and activities. GOI's main emphasis here was to strengthen the coordination
of five priority community-level programs-namely family planning, nutrition,
iununization, diarrheal disease control, and maternal and child health-at integrated
service delivery posts (posyandu), organized by the community themselves.
2. Project Objectives and Description
2.1         Objectives. The project's objective was to increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of the Government's nutrition and community health programs to reduce
infant, child, and maternal mortality by: (a) strengthening the coordination and
management of the five key community health programs in eleven priority provinces,
including direct operational support to each these five programs; (b) further developing
Indonesia's nutrition surveillance capability in four areas (timely warning and
intervention, nutrition monitoring and assessment, nutrition policy and program studies,
and nutrition information); and (c) strengthening nutrition human resource development
at the paramedical and graduate levels. These objectives would be accomplished
through various project components described below.
2.2         Project Description. The following activities were to be undertaken
from 1986 to 1991.
Strengthening Coordination and Management of Community Health (US$21.0,
excluding taxes and contingencies)
2.3         This component was to be implemented in 11 provinces, selected for a
major focused effort to implement coordinated delivery of the five key community
health programs during Repelita IV. These provinces, which represent 80 percent of
Indonesia's population, included East, Central and West Java, DKI Jakarta, North,
South, and West Sumatra, East and West Nusa Tenggara, Lampung, and South
Sulawesi.
2.4         The objective of this component was to support coordinated community
health activities through common services delivery posts (posyandu). This process was
already ongoing in some localities. In these areas, village volunteers conducted the
above-mentioned five key programs and were responsible to the village reliance boards
(LIKMDs) that are affiliated with the Ministry of Interior. The MOH Directorate of
Community Health had begun a policy of encouraging communities to establish common
service delivery posts, using Family Nutrition Improvement Program child weighing



- 3 -
posts (UPGK) and family planning VCDCs (Village Contraceptive Distribution Centers)
as entry points.I/
2.5          Support for this process was to be provided through the three MOH
units 2/ concerned with community participation; planning, management and
supervision; and communications. In addition, the project would support improved
management (including monitoring and evaluation) by the Directorate-General of
Community Health and provide operation support for supplies that might be needed in
the five programs.
2.6          Community Partidpation. The project would support two kinds of
activities in about 16,500 villages in all 11 provinces: training and orientation of village
leaders in the organization of common service delivery posts and in the purposes of the
five key community health programs; and training of village volunteers in motivation
and in the basic technical content and activities of the aforementioned five key
programs. In addition, this component would support the strengthening the newly
established MOH Directorate of Community Participation through provision of
fellowships, vehicles, technical assistance, travel and subsistence costs (required for
program implementation and supervision).
2.7          Communications. This subcomponent would provide support to the
Center for Community Health Education for two types of activities: a nationwide
promotional campaign relating to the significance of the five key community health
programs to the goal of reducing infant and child mortality; and the development of
communications materials and messages for the individual programs in support of their
community activities.  In addition, the project would support the institutional
development of the recently established Center, through provision of fellowships,
technical assistance, vehicles and funds for annual planning workshops.
2.8          Programs Operations Support Funds. The project would provide funds
($5 million) for program supplies (equipment, drugs, vaccines, consumable materials,
etc. that might be needed at the community health center or below. Unlike the family
planning and UPGK programs, maternal and child health, immunization and diarrheal
disease control programs had not yet attracted significant resources, owing partly to
their still limited coverage and absorptive capacity.
I/ In 1984, the largely successful pilot UPGK, which focused on comnmunity nutrition education
using grwth monitoring (weighing) a an entry point, had expanded to about 30,000 villages
in Java and Bali. The rapid expansion of this MOH progrnm had been brought about by
attaching UPGK's core package of activities onto the National Family Planning Coordinating
Board's village contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs), which had been operating in over
30,000 villages. Along with UPGKs ad VCDCs, there was another MOH village health
program (PKMD) being pilot in a few hundred villages. In this program, which wa then only
modestly successful, vilage volunteer wom expec  to provide simple preventive and curative
primary health care service to their respective communities.
2/ Thes refer to the two directortes of Community Participation and Community Health Centers
and the Center for Community Health Education.



- 4 -
Developing Nutrition Surveillance (US$10.3 million, excluding taxes and
contingencies)
2.9         This component would assist the Directorate of Nutrition in implementing
two elements of its master plan for nutrition surveillance for Repelita IV and beyond.
These elements included the replication of timely warning and intervention system
(TWIS) and the broadening of the country's nutrition surveillance. The assistance here
would be in the form of technical assistance, consultancies, training, equipment,
vehicles and materials, travel and subsistence costs, research/survey costs, honoraria
and staff allowances, and funds for acquisition and replication of nutrition books and
periodicals.
2.10       rTmely Warning and Invention System. This subcomponent would
provide support for the replication of TWIS, which had been piloted earlier in two
districts of Lombok and Central Java to avert or mitigate the worst consequences of
short-term food deficits. TWIS would be expanded to 37 selected districts in 11
provinces, after appropriate studies and workshops (to be supported by the project) had
been conducted.
2.11        Broadening of Nutrition Surveillace. The project would support the
gradual broadening of Indonesia's nutrition surveillance activities to improve its data
base and information dissemination capacity. Specific activities included: (a) nutrition
monitoring and assessment (covering systematically nutritional status, programs and
activities); (b) nutrition policy and program studies; and (c) nutrition information
(specifically, project support for the development of a new nutrition information unit
in the Directorate of Nutrition).
Improving Nutrition Manpower Development (US$13.7 million, excluding taxes and
contingencies)
2.12        To alleviate the expected shortage of paramedical nutrition personnel, this
project component would support the development of 8 (two academies and six schools)
out of the 15 paramedical institutions planned under Repelita IV in Aceh, Bali, East,
Central and West Java, North and Southeast Sulawesi and West Nusa Tengara. Funds
would be provided for physical development (civil works, equipment, and vehicles) and
for books and teaching aids and materials. In addition, the project would also help IPB
(Institute of Agriculture, BogOr) to strengthen existing graduate degree programs,
develop a nutrition course for staff of the Ministry of Agriculture, and establish a
doctoral program in nutrition. This subcomponent would also provide funds for the
physical development of improved and expanded administrative, classroom and
laboratory space (civil works, equipment, furniture and teaching aids and materials) for
IPB's existing bachelor's, master's and proposed doctoral degree programs in nutrition;
and computing facilities, training and technical assistance required for the establishment
of a food and nutrition policy analysis unit at IPB.



- 5-
3. Project Design and Organization
3.1         The project had a clear conceptual foundation overall and a reasonable
design, given existing institutional and human resources constraints. The linkcages
between project objectives and components were relatively well defined and understood
by relevant parties. On the whole, the project, which had many innovative components,
was carefully assessed at appraisal.
3.2         The assumption that underpinned the project was well taken. This was
that while there were technologically simple community health interventions (family
planning, maternal and child care, nutrition, imTmunization and diarrhoeal disease
control) to reduce fertility, malnutrition, and mortality (infant, child and maternal),
difficulty in access and lack of awareness or appreciation of the value of those services
had prevented mothers and children from benefitting from them. A conventional
solution would have been to strengthen each of these programs separately. What was
innovative about the project design was to try to improve each of these services in the
context of a coordinated, community-based delivery system. The hypothesis was that
such a system would stimulate use of those services by target mothers and their children
than what could be achieved by separate improvements of the above services. The
reason was that a coordinated, community-based approach (implemented through the
posyandu) would make it more convenient for mothers to get those services. Demand
for them was expected to increase considerably as posyandu would effectively reduce
time cost to mothers.
3.3         This idea was generally understood and shared by relevant policy-makers
and implementors. It was also understood that the above strategy to be highly effective
would require strengthened community participation and ownership; training of kaders
(volunteer village workers) and community leaders; coordinated planning, management
and supervision of the five programs; an integrated community health
education/communications support strategy; and strengthened program of monitoring
and evaluation. Moreover, the project design rightly provided a flexible program
operational support fund in anticipation of possible financial constraints to meet growing
demands for services.
3.4         The nutrition surveillance and nutrition human resource development
components complemented the above strategy and laid the ground for suswtaining and
deepening Indonesia's nutrition program. At the time of appraisal, there was consensus
regarding the need to build the quality of health and nutrition policy formulation,
sectoral planning, and program development and evaluation; and the need to increase
the output and availability of qualified nutrition personnel at the paramedical and
graduate levels.
3.5         This project, however, had some design and organizational weaknesses.
An example was the Timely Warning and Intervention System (TWIS). While TWIS
was a laudable and innovative idea, it was too ambitious, considering the existing data
base and local analytical and implementation capacity. In this regard, the difficulty of
developing a reasonable set of leading indicators or a relatively accurate forecasting



- 6 -
model to predict impending food crises in a particular locality was much greater than
anticipated. In short, the true complexity and requirements of establishing a workable
TWIS was not realistically appraised.
3.6           With respect to overall organization and management,3/ the project
adhered to existing structures and patterns within the individual implementing units.4/
This approach was sensible, considering the institutional capacity of local governments
at the time and the determination of GOI to use existing structures. This adherence
could mean that institutionalization and, hence, sustainability of project activities and
ideas would be greater. On the other hand, the strategy imposed major limitations on
what could be achieved efficiently. Because responsibilities under the existing set-up
were usually fragmented and overlapping, many coordination problems had arisen
during project implementation, contributing to delays and duplications as well as failure
to fully exploit opportunities for synergistic interactions.5/ These inadequacies were
compounded by another feature of the institutional arrangement-the highly top-down
character of project planning, funding channelling and implementation. This feature
3/ The MOH Directorate-General of Community Health was responsible for overall project
coordination, with individual project implementing departments/units handling specific project
components, as follows:
(a)   Directorate General of Community                     Community
Health                                               Health
(b)   Directorate of Nutrition                             Nutrition Surveillance
(c)   Center for Education and Training                    Nutrition Manpower
of Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT)                      (paramedical)
(d)   Department of Commity Health and                     Nutrition Manpower
Family Resources (GMSK), IPB                         (graduate).
41 Project implementation was under the overall gudance of the Directorate General of Community
Health (with the Director Genal as project officer). But, operationally, each department/unit
was responsible for carrying out the project activities within their purview, including the
procuremnnt of civil works, goods and services, project finances (including counterpart funding
and loan reimburements) and project morutoring and progress reporting. Accordingly, project
implementation officers were designted by each of the above-mentioned departments or units
and were assisted by full-time or part-time staff responsible for the administrative and technical
aspects of project/component activities and coordination.
S/ For example, there was confusion in terms of development of certain materials between the
Directorate of Community Participation (PSM) and the Center for Community Health Education
(PKM). A specific case was their production of two differeat newsletters with the same title
(Warta Posyandu). Initially, both were aimed at kaders. (Subsequently, PSM decided to change
the focus of its newsletter for policy makr and progrm  magers.)  Tho numerous
umoordinted sdies wore another example. Coordination of thes studies, timely syntheis of
their findins ad their wider dissemination among the various parties involved in the project (as
well as other relevant agencies) would have had enhanced the quality of their thinking about
community health and nutrition intervention strategies.



- 7 -
limited the scope for participation by the community and by local government and made
the project less responsive to local demands and conditions.
3.7          These institutional limitations were recognized at appraisal, and the
design included certain measures to alleviate them. Some of the measures were
successful; others were not. For example, the Project Steering Committee, which was
established to ensure appropriate intra- and inter-ministerial coordination, did not meet
as required.t/  Another example is the strengthening of the Secretariat of the
Directorate General of Community Health. The project called for the assignment (to
the Secretariat) of at least ten full-time staff who would coordinate and manage all
activities relating to the community health component specifically and liaise with their
counterpart teams in other departments/units responsible for nutrition surveillance and
nutrition manpower development components. The failure to fully and immediately
comply with this measure hampered project coordination, supervision, monitoring and
disbursements. Issues regarding design and organizational factors as they affect quality
of implementation and project effectiveness are further discussed in para 4.47
3.8          Regarding the timing, the project can be evaluated from two perspectives.
On the one hand, it can be argued that the project was ill-timed because of the
unforeseen emergence of shortages in counterpart funding during the first few years of
project implementation. GOI had to exercise tight fiscal restraint due to deteriorating
macroeconomic conditions following the decline in oil prices. On the other hand, the
timing was propitious, because as GOI funds for the health sector became less available,
the project helped provide much needed funds to protect implementation of high priority
health initiatives. Implementation of posyandu and institutional capacity building by the
new directorates of community participation and health education suffered less because
of the availability of project funds at the time when government budget became very
tight. On this point, inclusion of a flexible programs operations support fund in the
project proved to be an excellent strategy.
4. Project Implementation
4.1          The project became effective on February 21, 1986. It started with a
baseline study (MOH Integrated Family Health Package) to provide information
necessary to tailor specific strategies and activities to actual needs. A rmid-term review
was undertaken in 1988 by a group of reputable local and international consultants, who
analyzed the progress and quality of project implementation and gave well-considered
recommendations for strengthening project effectiveness. In the final year of project
implementation, some field assessments (albeit, limited) of selected project activities
6/ The Steering Comnmttee compnsed the Director General of Community Health (Chairman), the
Secretary General (MOH), the Director General for Communicable Disease Control (MOH), the
Deputy Chairman for Social and Cultural Affairs (BAPPENAS), the Vice Rector (IPB), the
Director General of Higher Education (MOEC), and the Director General of International
Monetary Affairs (MOF). The Project Steering Committee was expecd to meet quarterly to
review overall project progress, approve plans and budgets for all project components, and
resolve any issues affecting project goals and implementation.



- 8 -
were conducted to find out, to the extent possible, project impact. On December 31,
1991 the project was closed, as scheduled.
4.2         Out of the total loan of $ 33.4 million, GOI spent $ 31.81 million.
Although about five percent of the loan fund remained unspent, all the activities
prescribed in the SAR (with some adjustments) were fully carried out (see MOH 1992
Achievement Report). There were several reasons for the unspent balance. One was
the depreciation of the local currency, which made unit costs (in dollar terms) of some
major activities like construction and training lower than estimated at appraisal.
Anoer is the reduction in the unit cost of traning kaders.7/ Further, there was the
cancellation of $231,130 due to misprocurement of vehicles. Fially, a year and a half
prior to project closing date, the Bank and GOI decided that it was not worth extending
the project just to spend the remaiing balance of about $1.5 million, since a new
project on community health and nutrition (CHN Ill was being prepared. CHN m
would be the new vehicle for assisting GOI further in promoting community health.
4.3         The discussion below  gives a flavor of the project's "physical
accomplishments in terms of the type of project assistance provided and in relation to
targets, where they had been set. On the whole, it would appear that the physical
targets have been achieved, in some cases even exceeded.  The quality of
implementation, however, is mixed.
4.4         Component I: Strengthening the Coordination and Manement of
Community Health. The implementation strategy for this component was shaped by
the findings of the above-mentioned baseline study (MOH Integrated Health Package)
as well as other situation analyses (e.g., the formative study for the communications
subconponent). To help understand the project's implementation strategy, some of
those findings are presented below.1/ It was clear that:
(a)   Only a limited amount of counselling was taking place at posyandu,
particularly related to nutrition, due to poor kader training and
supervision.
(b) Kaders communication tasks needed to be targeted better and simplified.
(c)   Puskesmas staff seemed motivated, but many logistical and staffing
constraints existed.
2/ UNICEF was spporting a similar taining prgram with a unit cost tat wa about half of what
the NCH II inteded to spad. In respom to UNICEF's reques and with Buak's agreennnt,
MOH cut the NCH E1 unit cost and mae it the -  as UNICEF's.
1/ Although ths fict,  _uimd by Richad Polluad (1992), FIa Report: Posyndu Promoiom
Projet 1987-1992,    Mnoff Group had been pre_nted in rsatio to the drvelopnu.nt of to
--omllficatioea abofconat, theyweethen  facto  d ahdped the plaing of the
odhr -.



-9-
(d) There were not enough active kaders to run posyandu effectively.
(e)   Awareness of and trial use of posyandu was high but regular use of full
services was low.
(f)   Mothers had many atttudinal and practical barriers to using posyandu
services.
(g)   The potential reach of mass media was about 50 percent; actual reach
was about 30 percent.
(h)   Many villagers remained untouched by the program.
4.5         Community Participain. Based on the above situation, the project
provided the following training in 11 provinces (16,500 villages): 5,622 providers
(target: 5600) in commnity participation and Health for All leadership. In addition,
32,273 kaders (target: 32,000) were trained in Basic Program (or Acceleration)
Training to establish new posyandus (In this connection, 32,273 new posyandus were
dicly established.) Escalation Training was then conducted in the eleven provinces
and covered 29,810 villages to upgrade the motivation and effectiveness of trained
comumnity leaders and kader coordinators in community leadership, organization, and
resource mobilization. (Trining of kaders in the technical content and activities of the
five basic programs was also included.) Further, the project initated regular village-
level meetings (covering 338 subdistricts) that intended to open better communication
between provider and kader. lhese activitie were undertaken by MOH's Directorate
of Comnmnity Participation in collaboration of Ministry of the Interior's LKMDs
(Village Resilience Group) and women's organizations in the conmnunities (PKK).
4.6         The project objectives in ternm of number of kaders trained were met.
However, the training was not of high quality, demonstrating the lack of skill in
training at provincial, district and puskesmas levels. The training undertalien by PKK
appeared to be of a higher quality.
4.7         Communkations. In tanden with the above training, the Ministry of
Health's Center for Health Educaton (PKM Pusat) initiated a four-year program to
promoted public udlization of posyandu (called te Posyandu Promotion Project). PKM
Putat formulaed a  te-phased promotion campaign (based on social marketing
methodology) for which it received substanial asistace from an intrnational firm
spcializi  in social market. Phase I ws launched in mid-1988. It was an
image-building campaign, designed to srenghen the image and importance of
preventive health and the community's sense of ownership of posyandu; to motivate use
of posyandu by consumers; and to enhance the importane of providers' work in their
own eyes. The next phase was then lainched in 1989 to "sell each of thde specific
sevices (antenmtal care, grwth monitoring, diral disease control, vitamin A, ant
family planing) to the appropriate consumer target group and to motivate heath
workers to provide more reliable and effective services. Finaily, in late 1990 the third



- 10 -
phase was started. It focused on nutrition education, specifically counselling by kaders
after monitoring growth.
4.8        In this connection, innovative counselling tools were developed and
provided to kaders and posyandus. These included counselling cards to assist kaders
and child feeding action sheets given to about half a million mothers. Community
participation in these efforts was instituted at various levels, concentrating on workshops
and community meetings for village leaders, school teachers, and religious leaders.
Mass media supported this task through messages to strengthen self-ownership.
4.9         Programs Operations Support Fund. Utilization of posyandu critically
depends on the availability of drugs, measuring instruments (e.g., weighing scales), and
other material support needed for delivery of the five basic services. Due to tight
budgetary constraint, many posyandus and kaders did not have those requirements.
Consequently, their credibility were being undermined. Accordingly, the project's
programs operations support fund was used to purchase those commodities (see Table
4), including kits for traditional birth attendants and other materials to support safe
motherhood. Those commodities were purchased by relevant Central MOH directorates
and distributed to the provinces, districts and puskesmas in a top-down manner.
4.10        Planning, Management, and Supervision. The implementation record
here was mixed. The project provided brief training on planning and management to
18,362 persons from central (44) , provincial (1,870), and district (16,448) levels.
Training of Puskesmas staff in community health assessment and planning through
'Mmini lokakarya" (staff planning workshops), micro-planning, and stratification at
puskesmas level was undertaken in designated areas, in accordance with the SAR. The
assessment of microplanning was also undertaken, as agreed upon.
4.11        All puskesmas had developed their plans and have been regularly
conducting their "mini lokakarya". But the usefulness of these plans has been limited;
and intersectoral coordination, which was a key tactical objective, was difficult to
implement. Although Puskesmas staff knew the principles of planning, they did not and
still do not have the incentive to make realistic plans. Hence, in many places, planning
is merely a mechanical exercise. Aside from not knowing their budget, they do not
have discretionary power to allocate resources according to their plans: what gets
carried out are the priorities set at the top. This approach is being converted to bottom-
up planning and implementation under the ongoing Third Health (FY89) and the Third
Community health and Nutrition Project which was approved by the Executive
Directors in December 1992.
4.12        As called for in the SAR, annal supervision schedules had been prepared
and supervision manuals/guidelines had been developed and produced. Field visits
revealed that the intended beneficiaries in the provinces, districts and puskesmas had
received those guidelines. However, these were not used, generally. Beneficiaries
found them too complex and not responsive to their needs. Again, the problem is
rooted in the top-down nature of the assistance. Finally, supervision plans submitted
to the Bank were not fully carried out most of the time, essentially because of lack of



- 11 -
government funds and a general government policy minimizing supervisory visits to the
provinces and below. This policy had been introduced as part of government fiscal
tightening due to the deterioration in the macroeconomic environment.
4.13        Maternal and Child Health (MCH). One of the recommendations of
the Mid-term Review was greater emphasis on safe motherhood and MCH services.
The project adopted this recommendation and made the Directorate of Family Health
responsible for NCH 1I activities on MCH. This subcomponent trained midwives (in
1890 health centers) and supported 1,714 health centers for training kaders on mother
awareness. Training of nurses on antenatal care was also provided for 3,859 health
centers nurses. The project also supported the training of 13,510 Traditional Birth
Attendants (TBA). Field visits revealed that training TBAs and providing them with
TBA kits was an effective way to promote safe motherhood by health professionals and
by the TBAs themselves.
4.14        Component II: Developing Nutrition Surveillance. The plan was for
the project to support feasibility studies for selecting 37 districts in 11 provinces where
TWIS could be implemented. Implementation was relatively rapid: 32 districts in 9
provinces were completed after the second year of the project.  Consequently,
additional districts and provinces were included. Ultimately, these feasibility studies
were undertaken in 24 provinces over five years. As a result, to date, 55 districts in
13 provinces started implementation of TWIS. It is clear, however, that the use of
TWIS as a tool of district government to provide timely warning and intervention in
food crisis situation is still minimal.
4.15        The rapid expansion of TWIS coverage, its inherent complexity and poor
coordination 2/ have resulted in poor quality of implementation. In this regard, a
recent assessment commissioned by GOI with Bank and UNICEF support has reached
the following conclusion: "TWIS does not appear to be achieving its original objectives
in many, if not most, of the areas in which it has been established. This would appear
to be due to lack of specificity in the feasibility studies and in the indicators being used
and changes which may have occurred in the food system since the introduction of
TWIS. At best it provides monitoring of current consumption patterns." p.8.101
4.16        With regard to the other subcomponents, the project provided support (in
the form of technical assistance, training, travel and subsistence costs and honoraria)
for the implementation of the operational research projects/surveys planned in the SAR.
Included here, inter alia, was support of the evaluation and improvement of UPGK's
growth monitoring system (SKDN) and the development of nutrition indicators and their
inclusion in the SUSENAS (a national socioeconomic survey) in 1986, 1987, and 1989.
9/ The Directorate of Nutritionwas responsible for the implementation and operation of TWIS with
technical and research support from Bogor Agricultural Institute (IPB)-assisted by Cornell-and
the Center for Research and Development of Nutrition (CRDN).
10/ Heywood P. and Gunnawan S. Assessment of the Indonesian Nutrition Program, October 1990.



- 12 -
Moreover, nutrition policy and program studies had been conducted, much of which
were used for the formulation of Repelita V 's nutrition policies and programs.
4.17        Nutrition Personnel Development. Five academies of nutrition and
three assistant nutritionist schools were constructed. Three more academies (and three
less assistant nutritionist schools) were built than originally planned to accommodate
government's policy to upgrade the status of the Assistant Nutritionist Schools (Diploma
1) in Semarang, Bandung and Medan to Academy of Nutrition (Diploma III).Il/ In
addition to civil works, the project provided support for laboratory equipment, books
and other facilities as well as technical assistance in curriculum and staff development.
All of these institutions are now operational.
4.18        Under this component, training of Nutrition Program Implementors
(TPG) was also undertaken to address the shortage of nutrition workers in health
centers. This activity was carried out in collaboration with UNICEF, who provided
resources for the development of the trahiing curriculum and modules. In this regard,
the project had trained 1,158 middle level nutrition workers and another 219 persons
from district (165) and provincial (54) offices.
4.19        To address the dearth of qualified and experienced senior nutrition
professionals, the project assisted IPB develop its teaching, research and public service
capacity. Construction of a new 3-story GMSK building (5,980 sq. meters) was
completed in Jamnary 1989. Laboratory equipment, furniture, books and educational
materials had been procured. In addition, NCH II provided consultant services,
including reputable overseas consultants, to assist IPB in developing its curriculum,
research facilities and strategies, and staff. Only about half of the budget for overseas
consultants, however, was used, diluting technical assistance, which IPB badly needed.
Finally, seven overseas fellowships were funded (two for doctoral and five for master
of science degrees). Two of the latter had completed their studies, while one is now
enrolled in a doctoral program. Short-term overseas fellowships were also provided to
five persons.
4.20        With respect to local fellowships, NCH II supported two fellows who
were expected to get their doctoral (S3) degrees last year. In addition, 21 graduate
students were given fellowships at GMSK IPB. Of these, seven had gotten their
master's degree, while others were still doing research as of November 1991.
Furthermore, 41 undergraduate students of GMSK received assistance of which 21 had
completed their studies, also as of last year.
4.21        Besides the development of GMSK Department, NCH 1I supported the
development of the Food and Nutrition Policy Analysis Unit, which since 1989 has
become Food and Nutrition Policy Studies Center. In this connection, IPB had
Il/ Funding of the school planned for Matamm was shifted to Medan, sinco the former came un
hnird Health Project



- 13 -
completed its studies regarding TWIS. Those studies, however, do not appear adequate
yet.
4.22        To round out the discussion on human resource development, it is
important to note that the project had supported a total of about 500 fellows from all
components. These fellows will be an important source of trained personnel in nutrition
and community health. Of these, about 100 were overseas fellowships of which
roughly 40% were enrolled in doctoral and master's degree programs. Of about 400
recipients of local fellowships, 44 did graduate studies. Except for a few, recipients
of overseas fellowships had returned to Indonesia.
5. Project Results
5.1         The above discusion above presents an input-oriented assessment of the
projct and the quality of its design and implmentation. In the final analysis, however,
the key question is how effective the project has been in achieving its health and
nutrition objectives. The following discussion addresses this difficult question, to the
extent possible.
5.2         A definitive answer to the above question is not available. However,
there are intermediate health indicators that are worth presenting. A survey of 360
villages and 4,000 households in four provinces was conducted in early 1991 by the
Bureau of Statistics in West Sumatra, Central Java, NTB and South Sulawesi. Taken
together, these provinces could be deemed as roughly representative of the areas
covered by the project. One kader and 100 mothers were interviewed in each village.
5.3         The survey data indicate the following changes in the number of
posyandu and service coverage between 1986 and 1991: 12/
(a)   The number of posyandu in eleven covered provinces increased from
89,000 to 172,577, which is equivalent to 75 percent of the e.z-.umated
number (by MOH norm) needed for 100 children to be served by a
posyandu. Over 70 percent of total reported posyandu v ere operating
in April 1991.
(b)   The number of mothers who ever heard of posyandu increased from 78
percent to 95 percent.
(c)   The number of mothers who had ever been to a posyandu increased from
66 percent to 80 percent.
(d)   The percentage 'of mothers' youngest children who had ever been
weighed rose to 77 percent from probably about 41 percent. About
77 percent of mothers claimed to have a growth chart for their youngest
JW For morm deails, we Rchard Pollard (1992) gRi&1



- 14 -
child, although a little over half of them had not weighed their children
every month. (In 1991, the percentage weighed in the last month was
51 percent.)
(e)   Immunization coverage appeared to have increased significantly as shown
by the following data:
Coverage Rate (%) La     % at Posyandu
1986     1991         1986   1991
DPT1 (diphtheria,   47      96            30     70
polio, tetanus)
Polio 3            30       87            51     72
Measles                     71                   67
Tetanus            47       49            21     32
La For DPT1, polio and measles, coverage is defined as the percentage
of mothers' youngest children immunized. For tetanus, the reference
is to pregnant mothers.
(f)   It would appear that the percentage of immunizations done at posyandu
had increased to substantial proportions. Interestingly, over 70 percent
of mothers said they had received education about immunization at
posyandu.
Analysis of survey data also showed the following findings, which are directly related
to the project's communications efforts:
(g)   Some 55 percent of target mothers heard program messages over radio
and 54 percent over television; while 62 percent were counseled directly
by kaders.
(h)   Some 55 percent of mothers received nutrition education at posyandu.
(This was given mainly by health center staff rather than kaders.)
(i)   Roughly 66 percent of existing posyandu received promotional and
counselling materials. (Program target was 100,000 posyandu.)
(j)   Roughly half a million mothers received child feeding action sheets, with
80 percent of them claiming that they had changed their child feeding
practices (primarily, by increasing feeding frequency) as a result of the
information.



- 15 -
(k)   Posyandus have a high trial use of 95 percent (as measured by the
percentage of families who ever used them), with 51 percent availing
themselves of aU posyandu services.
(1)   Finally, there is now a strong sense of ownership of posyandu in the
minds of villagers, although mitdgated by an attitude that the
responsibility for supply rests with the health center.
5.4         Conditions clearly changed considerably, in comparison to the situation
in 1986, as described earlier. To what extent these changes were due to the project is
difficult to firmly establish. Neverhekss, the survey data show that 92 percent of
puskesmas staff felt that the posyandu promotion activity had helped kaders
communicate with mothers. Of those staff, close to half said that the kaders were
helped a lot. Further, 67 percent of puskesmas staff felt that promotional activities had
helped a lot in getting mothers to come to posyandu-with another 32 percent saying
it helped somewhaL Finally, 90 percent of mothers claimed that the services at
posyandu were beneficial.
5.5         Field visits and intern  with intended beneficiaries  during final
supervision missions confirmed the above findings. In general, intended beneficiaries
reported that they had received the assistance provided by NCH II and that, on the
whole, they found them useful.
5.6         Some of the benefits from cerain project activities, however, were quite
limited. For example, while the project had contributed significantly to the
development of staff capacity in micro-planning, the benefit from this increased capacity
has been limited by the lack of incentive to formulate realistic plans. Such benefits will
continue to be limited until institutional changes are brought out giving puskesmas staff
a certain degree of discretionary authority over resource allocation decisions.
5.7         With respect to nutrition surveillance, the results are mixed.  For
example, on the one hand, one can definitely argue that the impact of TWIS and the
benefits from it are minimal. On the other hand, improving the SKDN (growth
monitoring system for children aged 0-5) is probably of considerable value. The
improved SKDN system has been firmly established and used for targeting priority
problems and focusing community action on the problem of malnutrition among
children.
6     Project SsWtnability
6.1         Many of the beneficial effecs of the project appear to be sustainable.
GOI and the Bank have taken steps to ensure that the accomplishments achieved under
NCH 11 are carried forward. However, there are cridcal constraints that must be
recognized to avoid unrelistic expectatons. There are also risks that need to be dealt
with in the long-run, if those benefits are to be fully realized.



- 16 -
6.2         To sustain the progress that has been achieved, it is important to address
the following critical issues:
(a)   Continued improvement in the posyandu system lies in the capacity of
health centers to supply consistent, integrated service to all posyandu,
including provision of adequate supplies, vaccinators, and midwives.
This is important to further enhance and maintain the credibility of
posyandu.
(b) The high kader drop out rate requires substantial resources to fund
continuous training activities for replacement and new kaders, while at
the same time condtuing the upgrading of old kaders to further reduce
mothers' lack of confidence in them. In this regard and for reasons
spelled out in (c) below, it is highly probable that under the current set-
up the posyandu could get stuck at an equilibrium level (in terms of
quality and/or coverage) that is lower than expected, given MOH targets.
(c)   GOI needs to review the necessity of developing some practical, cost-
effective incentives for kaders, while keeping "internal" motivation
strong. Indications, however, are that so-called moral incentives could
no longer be solely relied upon. Unless this and the preceding issues are
effectively addressed, the future role of posyandu, though at present
considerable, would be limited. Three factors must be considered here.
First, as employment opportunities and wages continue to rise with
sustained economic growth, the opportunity cost of voluntary work is
also expected to rise. This evolving situation would make it more
difficult to keep old kaders and recruit new ones, especially if they are
expected to produce at higher levels of competence and performance.
Second, rising incomes could have a negative effect on the utilization of
posyandu services, if mothers see them as inferior. Third, although
providing incentives costs money, it could also save resources by
reducing the cost of training replacement kaders.
(d)   The need for central and provincial capacity to regularly produce fresh
counselling, promotional and health education materials is also crucial.
Field visits revealed that many of these materials, although initially
effective, quickly lost their usefulness, as mothers became bored when
kaders kept regurgitating the same materials.
(e)   Some institutional issues would have to be addressed. In this regard,
some form of decentralization is necessary to allow communities, their
puskesmas and their local governments to participate more fully in health
planning and resource allocation. Changes in this area are important to
make Central govermment allocation and assistance more responsive their
priorities. Unless some form of financial decentralization occurs in the
near future, the capacity for micro-planning would be wasted for reasons
mentioned above.  Within the context of a more decentralized



- 17 -
institutional arrangements, it is also important to address the
responsibility of PKM Pusat relative to the activities of other offices
involved in nutrition and community health programs.  A recent
assessment of the situation revealed that these offices do not make use
of the PKM Pusat (Center for Health Education) institutional services,
despite the fact that they have asked for help from particular staff
members of PKM Pusat. Institutionally, PKM Pusat had not been given
much opportunity recently to use their newly acquired capacity and build
it further through the process of learning by doing. It appears that other
programs  and  directorates  prefer  to  develop  their  own
communication/health education programs themselves. The risk here is
that the embryonic capacity of PKM Pusat to develop and implement a
promotional campaign based on social marketing methodology may be
dissipating.
(f)   The task of building IPB as a first-class institution capable of running a
solid graduate program and research on family health and community
mntrition remains a challenge. IPB must continue to send fellows abroad
for graduate work to strengthen further itS faculty. IPB's development
could benefit from continued interaction with first-rate visiting
researchers and professors. Moreover, IPB would need more Ph.Ds in
its staff to develop a strong doctoral program, which GOI hopes to
establish soon. This is also important for building a research capacity
hat would be adequate for producing credible public policy studies.
6.3         On the positive side, there are several factors that would favor sustained
implementation of the various initiatives supported by NCH II. One is the strong
intersectoral consensus among Indonesian policy-makers (including the President) that
the posyandu strategy and other MCH initiatives based on community ownership and
participation is the correct approach to sustainable delivery of basic health services.
Second, in fact, there is now a strong sense of community ownership of posyandu and
acceptance by the communities of the responsibility of delivering the posyandu's five
basic family services, as well as a positive perception by mothers that posyandu
provides beneficial services. Third, with regard to MCH activities, MOH and
provincial health offices have also developed a strong sense of ownership of safe
motherhood initiatives supported by NCH II. In this connection, observations during
field visits indicated a strong social demand for early detection of high risk pregnancies
and for trained traditional birth attendants with TBA kits among pregnant women with
little access to modem health practitioners. Fourth, economic growth and continued
reduction in poverty throughout Indonesia are expected to enable many more
communities to shoulder a greater percentage share of the cost of community health
services over time. They will, however, need continued support from higher levels.
In this regard, fifth, with improving public finance, capacity will be greater for GOI
to fund puskesmas and higher level health bureaucracies to: (a) provide more effective
support (both material and technical assistance) and supervision of posyandu and other
community health initiatives and (b) support continued development of community-
oriented nutrition and health manpower. On this manpower development goal,



- 18 -
commitment from top government officials is quite strong. Finally, although they
remain in need of further strengthening, government staff at the center and local
government levels now have a relatively stronger manpower and institudonal capacity
on which to build more ambitious and more decentralized community health and
nutridon projects (compared to five years ago).
6.4         Government, with Bank assistance, is dealing with many of the above
issues in a number of ways. Foremost of these is the Community Health and Nutrition
(CHN III), which has recently been approved by the Board. Building on the
contributions of NCH II and using its now expeienced secriat, this project will push
further the idea of community participation and move improvements of commnity
health and nutridon in new directions. In particular, the project would build provincial
and kabupaten capacity to plan, implement and evoaluate Safe Motherhood, Child
Survival and Nutrition interventions, as well as strengthen the capacity of the central
MOH, primarily the Directorate General for Community Health, to support provincial
efforts. In addition, there is the ongoing Third Health Project, whose "experimentalm
institudonal innovations have begun to create a more conducive atmosphere for the
development of a decentralized and integrated health planning and budgeting. It should
also be noted that GOI with Bank assistance is now in the process of reforming the
SUSENAS to further improve inter alla health and utrition data and analysis of
poverty-related issues. One direction that this initative would take is making
SUSENAS data representative at the district level, which would advance the innovation
pioneered by NCH II, which supported the development and collection of nutridon
indicators as part of the 1986, 1987, and 1989 SUSENAS surveys.
7     Borrower's Performance
7.1         GOI's performance has been satisfatory on the whole. Despite problems
during the first few years of implementation of NCH II, government completed the
project on time. GOI's ownership of the project and its comnitment to its successful
implementation was quite high. Its vision of posyandu was commendable and its
strategy of community participation was pioneering. With some exception, GOI has
complied, on the whole, with the loan covenants and implemented the activities as
spelled out in the SAR. And where adjustments had to be made, they were carried out
with Bank agreement.
7.2         The quality of its perfonnance, however, particularly with respect to
supervision could have been better, if government effort were not spread too thinly over
11 provinces (or more in some intances) and If the first few years of project
implementation were smoother. Implmentation of the project during the first three
years had a number of problems. FIrst, there was lack of familiar with procedures,
standards, and timing relting to implmentation of Bank-funded projects. Second,
some of the measures caLed for in the SAR to facilitate implmentation and ensure
coordination did not work or were not fully carried out. For example, te Steering
Committee was disconinued due to the busy scheduls of echelon I officials. Hence,
strong intersectoral coordination suffered. Anodter example is the appointment of a



- 19 -
liaison officer in every province. The arrangement was terminated after two years,
because it was not effective.
7.3         Further, although GOI had complied with annual submission of its
supervision plans, it could not implement them well for various reasons. Project
Secretariat in the early years could not carry out its assigned roles very well, not only
because of staff's lack of familiarity with implementation procedures for Bank-funded
projects, but also because of GOI's failure to fully and expeditiously implement the
staffimg of Project Secretariat as envisioned in the SAR. Moreover, the Secretariat did
not have its own DIP budget during the first two years; and the funds made available
to it was inadequate to support effective supervision. For these reasons and the
shortages in counterpart funds due to the deterioration in the macroeconomic
environment, project  performance suffered.  This is reflected in low  actual
disbursement rate compared to planned levels (see Table 3).
7.4         Considering the above problems, the timely completion of the project
could justly be considered a noteworthy achievement, especially when compared to
other projects in Indonesia. Several reasons would account for this achievement. One
was the strengthening of the project secretariat following the recommendations of the
Mid-term Review. In this regard, GOI improved the staffing of the Secretariat and
gave it adequate (and separate) DIP budget to improve its supervision and coordination
functions. Another reason was the setting up of a better working relationship between
the Project Secretariat and TUA (Budget Administration) of the Ministry of Finance.
For a good part of project implementation, disbursement had seriously lagged behind
actual expenditures, mainly because of documentation problems. To speed up
disbursement, regular monthly meetings were held between TUA and project staff to
facilitate preparation and documentation of applications for disbursement. Yet another
important factor was the availability of counterpart funds as the economy and the
government financial situation began to improve during the late eighties.
8     Bank Performance
8.1         The choice of project objectives and components was the main strength
of Bank's performance. The objectives represented high priority concerns of GOI.
Malnutrition and mortality among infants, children, and mothers were (and remain)
clearly shared objectives between GOI and the Bank. GOI's support for various
components, particularly Component I, was appropriate. And, the linkge between
project activities and objectives was clear overall.
8.2         Formal and informal Bank supervision missions were carried out at least
twice a year. In supervising project implementation, the Bank exercised flexibility and
a problem-solving approach. On average, the number of staff weeks devoted to
supervision of NCH II was about 18 per year.
8.3         Bank's performance, however, suffered from the following weaknesses.
Its agreement to GOI's choice of scale was at the expense of quality. The scale of
activities and the coverage of 11 provinces (ater expanded to 15 in some cases) were



- 20 -
too large, making normal Bank (and GOI) supervision effort inadequate and diluting the
effectiveness of training and other interventions. A related point is that the TWIS
subcomponent could have been appraised more realistically and, with regard to its
implementation, control of the quality and the number of TWIS feasibility studies could
have been tighter, limiting the coverage to fewer areas Drawing upon these lessons,
the scope of subsequent health/nutrition subsector projects was limited to fewer area.
Drawing upon these lessons, the scope of subsequent health/nutrition subsector projects
was limited to fewer provinces - Third Health Project (FY89) is being implemented in
two provinces and the Community Health and Nutrition III Project (FY93) will cover
only five provinces.
8.4         These weaknesses were compounded by the fact that during the early
stages of project implementation, the Bank failed to provide effective assistance to
Project Secretariat and other relevant staff in familiarizing themselves with procedures
and standards regarding Bank-assisted projects. Frequent changes in task managers
made Bank supervision less effective due to lack of continuity.
9     Project Relationships
9.1         As mentioned above, the Bank took a flexible, problem-solving approach
to supervision.  It numntained good relationships with the Ministry of Health,
BAPPENAS, and other government agencies responsible for project implementation.
Moreover, relations with other donors involved in the development of community health
and nutrition in Indonesia (particularly UNICEF and WHO) were also satisfactory.
10    Cosultng Services
10.1        Foreign and domestic consulting services had a substantial role in various
aspects of the project. The foreign consultants carried out various studies (particularly,
on nutrition-related issues) and assisted in developing inter alia the communications
component (including its evaluation), TWIS, and the IPB graduate program. The Mid-
term Review was undertaken by a group of foreign and local consultants, headed by a
local health expert. On the whole, the foreign consultants, who generally had excellent
intemational reputation, were quite helpful. The consulting services for TWIS,
however, was of doubtful value.
10.2        The project found local consultant services to be very useful in many
instances. However, many domestic consultants did not complete their studies at
expected schedule and level of quality.
11    Project Docmentation and Data
11.1        Legal agreements were appropriate. Amendments to these agreements,
where they were required to accommodate reasonable changes, had been properly
documented.



- 21 -
11.2        The Staff Appraisal Report had provided the Bank and GOI a satisfactory
framework during project implementation. Project data relevant to the preparation of
this PCR are readily available at the Ministry of Health.
12    Lesons Learned
12.1        There are several lessons that are worth highlighting here. These could
be summnrized as follows:
(a)   The most important lesson is that posyandu works to a considerable
extent, and that it could be made to work even better. Five main
elements underpin the relatively successful posyandu strategy for
improving community nutridon and family health: (i) choice of effective
but underutilized interventions with high potential demand and simple
technological and delivery requirements; (ii) coordinated delivery of
those interventions, making them available simultaneously at predictable
times (e.g., once a month) and at easily accessible places in the
community; (iii) a strong sense of community ownership and
commitment to support posyandu operations and ensure their
effectiveness through vigorous community pardcipation (e.g.,
contribution of volunteer labor and other resources); (iv) a broad national
consensus, from the President Ia/ down to the community; and (v)
promotion based on social marketing methodology.
(b)   The posyandu, however, is not a panacea: There are serious limitations
to what the posyandu system can deliver (as discussed above). Some of
hese limitations can be overcome; others can be dealt with only through
more difficult structural changes. These involved inter alla a re-
definition of the posyandu concept and the role of the health centers and
sub-centers.
(c)   Implementation of a workable Timely Warning and Intervention System
(TWIS) is quite complex and its apparent conceptual simplicity can be
misleading. Underestimation of its complexity and implementation
requirements relative to existing capacity had led to critical mistakes in
planning the number of districts to be studied, in choosing the
qualifications of those who conducted and supervised the feasibility
sudies, and in the speed with which implementation of TWIS was being
expanded, going even beyond the already ambitious original plan.
(d)   Successful economic development could overtake in a relatively short
period of dme the relevance of certain project activities. For example,
TWIS is an idea whose relevance in Indonesia has been diminished
j/ In Novembr 1986, on the National Health Day, Prsidton Suharto declared a policy of
acce_emto of posyanda tmrghout the country.



- 22 -
considerably, as local food crises have become much less frequent
(compared to the mid-eighties or earlier) as a consequence of vigorous
developments in agriculture, trade and infrastructure. There is therefore
a serious question as to the value of TWIS in Indonesia today.
(e)   The value of training puskesmas staff in planning can be quite high; but
its benefits can be fully realized only if key decentralization issues are
effectively addressed. The current assignment of bureaucratic powers
and responsibilities, which is predominantly top-down, do not give the
puskesmas heads meaningful resource allocation authority. Thus, while,
puskesmas doctors appreciated their training in micro-planning, there was
no incentive for health centers to make realistic plans, as observed
during field visits and the Mid-term Review. (Some, in fact, felt that
micro-planning was a futile exercise.) Still, as government tries to
resolve the difficult issue of decentralization over the coming years, the
micro-planning experience in conjunction with lessons from the Third
Health (FY89) and CHN III (FY93) Projects could prove to be important
in the long-run.
(f)   Project successes and failures in health/nutrition subsectors appear to
depend on the following design and organization factors:
(i) choice of components based on realistic appraisal of technical
doability, implementation requirements, and behavioral soundness
(particularly regarding issues of demand; community ownership,
participation and commitment; and national consensus). In this
regard, Component I was more successful than TWIS, because
the former was responsive to the above issues much better than
the latter. Potential demand forposyandu services was high; the
national political commitment for it was solid; and, equally
important, community ownership and participation permeated the
whole idea of Component I (see para * above). Moreover, the
appraisal of Component I regarding its potential and
implementation requirements was relatively more realistic.
(ii) involvement of all existing, relevant bureaucracies in the
project, despite the risk of duplications and overlapping activities,
has increased their understanding of project objectives and
strengthened their interest, to do those activities assigned to them,
instead of choosing to be apathetic and uncooperative. The poor
performance of the TWIS subcomponent was partly traceable to
this factor.
(iii) scale of the project: The quality of implmentation and
effectiveness of various project activities suffered becaue of the
vast expanse of the area covered by the project and the magnitude
of the number of persons that had to be trained by a relative



- 23 -
small cadre of experienced and knowledgeable trainers. Limited
supervision resources were spread too thinly and the effectivens
of training activities was diluted.
(iv) drive and capacity of the Project Secretariat to coordinate Nd
supervise activities planned and carried out by the various
responsible agencies. After seriously lagging behind about two
years, project completion was put back on schedule, as a suro
Project Secretariat started to emerge after the mid-term review.
(v) flexibility: The availability of a flexible program operation
support fund was an excellent strategy. It proved propit     n
the project was able to fund (within the scope of its objetves)
high priority purchases and activities that would not have booe
carried out because of shortages of GOI funds arising fom
macroeconomic adjustments. Further, the support &nd enabled
the project to respond positively to the recommendation of tbe
Mid-term Review to give greater emphasis to ah
motherhood/MCH  than originally contemplated.   Anothr
example of the importance of flexibility relates to the fimding of
supervision. In light of the above-mentioned funding shortaes,
the Bank agreed to a 100 percent financing of GOI supervision
expenses, to improved the supervision effectiveness.
(vi) the indusion of a mid-term review in the design of dX
project. The review gave responsible agencies a sense of
accountability; equally important, it provided good advice on how
to improve the quality of project implementation and adjut
planned expenditures in light of project experience and the
changed economic environment.



-24-
PART II. BORROWER'S VIEW
1. DESCRtPTrON OP THE PROJECT
Name of the Project: Second NuLrLi.ton andl Commujnity HealLh,
Number of Loan         : 2636-IND, IBRD
Date of Agrcement   : December 19, 1985
Efrective date         : February 2, 1986
Closing dale           : December 31, 1991
Total Original Loan: US $ 33,400,000.00
Not Loan Amoount       : US $ 33,168,875.00
The budget allocation  by category  had been amanded   dated
April 4, 1990 and October 10, 1991l. The reallocation budget
by category are as follows (in US $)
Calegory              Original Loan   Amanded  Loan  Amanded Loan
April 4, 1990  Oct 10, 1991
________            --------------      -------------    ------------
1. Civil Work         6,175,000.00       2,997,000.00   3,500,000.00
2. Equipment
Furniturc,Books,
Naterial s         3,135,000.00      6j300,000.00   6,000,000.00
3. Equipment and
Materials for    4,750,000.00         8,370,875.00 * 9,118,875.00
Part A.5
4. Consultant and
Fellowship         6,840,000.00      6,695,000.00   5,650,000.00
5. Training           9,120, 000.00      5,096,000.00   5,750,000.00
*  Cencelled                               231,125.00
___________        -------------    ________    ----
Total               33,400,000.00       33,400,000.00  33,168,875.00
The composition of the project:
(A). Strengthening  the Coordination  and Management of
Community Ilealth, namely Component I.
(i) Strengthening    commtunity  participation  through
training of five basic program in the service dclivery



-25-
poasl, (posyaeidiu) in organization and motivation for
cadres (about 16,500 villages in 11 provinces), and
assisting  the  institutional  developmenL  of the
Directorate of Community Participation.
The responsible  unit for  the  impletmentation  is
Dircotoratc of Community rartioipotion
(ii) Improving planning, management and  si4pervision
throtugh  assisting Lhe t.he development of a systematic
healtlh planning process; develop broad commitment to the
coordinated health services delivery approach among
community leaders at all administrative levels; and
strengthening supervision and monitoring all levels,
including determination of the indicators of program
progress. and almo to compleLe the introduction of the
microplanning process in 3 provinces (North Sumatera,
South Sumatera, and Lampung).
The responsible unit for the implemerntation is
Directorate of Health Center Development
(iii) Improving communications through developing and
implementing a nationwide campaign relating Lo Lhe
coordinating health programs; developing azid producing
nmed ia for the individual health and nuLrition programs
in support of Lhe community activities; developing
instructional malerial and Lraining of kader trainers;
assisLing the institutional development of the
recenLly-established Center for Community Health
Education.
The r.spon;inhl  tinit for tho. implementation i9 Center
for EHcalth Education
(iv) Strengthening the planning, managerial and
coordination capacity of the Community Health



-26-
Secretariat.
Thc rceponsthle uniL for Lhe imnlementation i;  Project
Secretariat
(v) rroviding operations support funds for progrAm
supplies as ncedcd for serviccs delivery at the
community health centers or  below. The operations
support funds was allocated for the provision of
equtipment, drugs, vaccine, consumable materials etc.
The program supplies were to support the program of MCH,
Immunization, diarrhoeal disease control, family
nutrition improvement and family planning.
The implementation unit of operntions support fund are
Component I, ComponenL II and Directorutc General of
Communicable Disease Control and Environmental Health
(5). Developing Nutrition Surveillance namcly Component II.
(i) SLrengthening and extending the timely warning and
intervention systcm (TWIS) to about 37 districs in up to
11 provinces through : carrying out feasibility studies
to determine the districts for TWIS exparnsion and
national TWIS support unit and establishing province and
districts level TWIS teams.
(ii) Strengthening nutrition monitoring and assesment
throuSh  support  for  the  implementation  of  five
operational research surveys.
(iit) Supporting nutrition policy and program studies in
four priority areas to assist in naLional and local
policy formulation and program development.
(iv) strengthening the nutrition information unit in the
Directorate of Nutrition.



-27-
The rcsponsiblc unlit for the implementation is
Directorate of Community Nutrition
(C). Improving Nutrition Manpdwer Development namely
Component III.
{i) StrengLheni.rg paramedi.cal nukLrition manpower
development through establishing two ac.ademic% and aix
assistant  nutritionisL  schoolo I;  helping  improving
educational quality at paramedical nutrition insLitution
Thc responsiblc unit for thc implementation is Center
for EducaLion and Training Health Personriel as Component
IrIA
(it) Strengthening of graduate nutrition manpower
devclopmcnt through physical dcevelopment of the IPE's
facilities for cxisting dcgrcc programs in nutrition;
development a nutrition coursc for staff of Ministry of
Agriculture;  and establishing a food and nutrition
policy analysis unit.
The r,eponsible unit for the implenernLation is Community
Nutrition and Family Resources Institute of Agriculture
as Componcnt III3
Based on thc  Midterm review done by DR.Ale. Papilaya, it was
recommended to include  MCII training for midwives and HealLh
Centre nurses, to improve the MCH program aL Health Centre
level . Started in FY. 1989/1990 the Directorate of Family
Health is included as onc of the subcomponent in the NCH-Ir
Project . The activities of this subcomponent were training
for midwives and health center nurses, cadre,  TBA.  and
provided the supporting facilities for improving MCH program.



-28-
2.  GENERAL CONCLUSION OF TIIE AChIEVEMENT
As a whole the Project has   achievcd  about one hundred
percent of the target. In some categories had been Achieved
more than the targeL such as Lraining , and in country
fellowships.
The Larget for equipmenLt is not clearly stated in the Sttff
Appraisal Report, so the achivement could not be compared by
the target.
The LoLal disbursement an of October, 1992 is US $ 31,807,973
or 95.9 % out of net the net loan.
DisbursementL by caLegory are as follows (in US $)
Category             Aianded Loan    Disbursement
Oct 10, 1991       Oct, 1992
1. Civil Work        3,500,000.00        3,499,148.43
2. Equipment
Furniture,Books,
Materials         6,000,000.00        5,840,967.70
3. Equipment and
MKtterials for    9,118,875.00        8,811,401.22
Part A.5
4. Consultant and
Fellowship        5,650,000.00        5,272,886.87
5. Training          5,750,000.00        5,377,701.05
6. Studics           3,150,000.00        3,005,697.52
Fund                                      171.11
Total               33,168,875.00       31,807,973.90



-29-
Tbc remaining revolving fund amounting IJS $ 52,329.86 liftn  been
repatd by GOI in September 1992.
The evaluation of thc implementaLion of Lhe projcct by sub
component arc as follows.
1. Sub Component Community Participation
a. Training.
All of training for Community had bccn carried out by all
Provinces based on the guidancc book. Generally trairning were
stated as contributed usefullness to the community.
The escalation training to improve ..the capabiliLy of caders
was very userull. It is showed by improvement of Posyandu's
acLivities  increasinig  the  cuve.age  ur oLildrvwi  uiiiwr'viw,
pregnant mother, and the community health fund.
b. Equiipment and materials.
The materials and equipment provided by Directorate of
Coummunity Participation received by Health Ccntre, and Health
Centre distributed to Posyandu.
At Posyandu could find guidance books for cader, and cader
kit. Not all cadcr got cader kit due the lack of budgeL. The
cadcr kit made the cader focling so proudly and exited to do
their job.
c. Fellowship
Most of staff. who are sponsored to have continuing edtucation
and training cither overseas or incountry, stlll being
utilized to deal with Community Participation program. However
some of them could not be utilized appropriately because of
muLaLion and moved to other city



-30-
2. Sub component Hcalt.h Cenl.re Development.
a. Eqiaipmenl..
Most of the health centre had reccived paramcdic kit and
man.uals  utskQsmav, Generel.ly, A11  nf thAt. equipment are very
usefull to sutpport health centre activities. IL scems that the
manual Puskesmas could guide the health cenl.re staff to do the
better job and improve the quality of services.
The liealth cenLc-e who reccivcd thc special equipment. such as
cold chain stated that it is very usefull.
By the time  the  data collection fulfilled, the mannual for
supervision (mannual supervisi) had   not sent yet by Lhe
Directorate of IIcalth Ccntcr DcvcJlopmcnt.
Iowever, thcy uscd the similar manual which was published
years before.
b. Training.
All of training activities had bccn carried out.
In general, that the training was fclt vcry usefull.
.However noL all of the tr ainees still being utilized to
perL'orme the programme, because of movement to other job.
c. Fellowship
All or sLafr who were attended  Liaining or continuing
education either overseas or incountry still beirng uLilized to
deal which the programs,
3. Sub Component Mother Child Health.
a. Training
In gencral all training have been carried out Lnci the RC staff
at atad4 thpt   ha tr yi n n   WAn: I=,, fzll .  AImrct nil 1 part iii,arit
of the training arc still uLilized to implement the programme.
Most of the  participant received the packagc of training
maL0riald. All participant who received equipment sLaLed that
the equipment is usefull.
The anti natal care training is felt very uscfull. They said



-31-
that after training they are ab[c to improve the quality of
services, increase the coverage of pregnant mother.
b. Eqtuipment..
'l'here are about 14 equipment have been provided by this
component to support MCH progr.am.
In gerieral, all of F.he eqijipnierit. have been rcceived by health
centre. All provincial office that are supposed to reccivcd
moLorcycle   to support MCH program at health ccntre had got
the motorcycle anti distributed to health centre.
Meanwhile, the gynoecological beds have been received  by
health centre.
4. Sub Component Community Health Education
a. Training,
Trainirig  on Posyandu promotion have been carried out in all
administrativc lcvcl.
This training for caders should have not only wa3 funded by
IBRD, but somc provinces had carried out the Lraining
auipporL;ed by GOI development budget or from the comuaunlty it
sclf, bccause the training   was considered very usefull for
the community.
c. Media and Material
In general, most  of   medias provided  by the Center  for
Community lIealth Education were received by all provinccs, and
had distributed to health cerntre. Some medias were sent from
central lcvcl directly Lo district hcalth office.
Thte distribution from district health office to health centre,
in somc ways
- distribute directly to parLiciparit when thcy were trained or
meeting.
- carried out to health ccntre while district health office
staff do the supervision.
- sent them by post.



-32-
- some health centre took them when they come to district
health office.
Irn Posyandun, the most effective diedia to be utilized is
Posters, while the Counscling Cassette is the second, and the
thlird positioni i  the Counseling Card.
Reasons are that the Posters are morc clear cither picture or
writing,  understandable and interesting.
Counseling Cassette is interesting, nice to be heard, the
messages are understandable,  however,  some   are useless
bccautse     Lhc   ta4c  recorder is not available. Counseling
Card is pracLicable and the material of the message have
provided, and easy to use it. Several Caders did not bring
along whenever they do their job because they were alrcady
understand the message.
d. Fellowship.
All of sLaff who were attended training or continuing
ediucaLion eiLlher overseam and incountry still being utilized
to deal with the program.
5. Component Community Nutrition.
a. Nutrition Mfonitoring arid Asresment.
This activities had been carried ouL in all of the Provinces
and Lhe result had been used by intcr sectoral,  specially
local government through intersectoral Nutrition Improvement
Board (BPGD).
Tho utilication of tho reocult aro mootly for planning and
nuLriLiozi policy inputs, beside evaluation and program
monitoring.
There are two training implemcnted in-order to carry out
Nutrition Monitoring and Assesment, such as training for
trainer and training for health worker.



-33-
b. T W I S  (Timcly WaarnIng Intervention System)
Thc activiLies  for TWIS had been implemented   in particular
provinces. The result had bccn discAis.4ed in BPGs nieeting and
as an irxpIit. for further action and working group of Nutrition
Surveilance. Some districts in Wesal Java, Cent.ral Java, East
Java and SouLh Sulawesi , the TWIS activities was funded by
local government.
But is still somc problems relating to the implementation of
TWIS in several districts, such as lack of support from local
government, and intersectoral coordination weakness.
c. Equiipment.
Body length measured have been distributed to all provinces,
to support the implementation of Nutrition Status Monitoring.
Directorate of Nutrition had provided  Posyandu  kits  and
weighing scale and had been distributed to the provinces. The
problcm was in field rather difficult to identify those
equipment provided by IBRD fund because there are another
donors such as UNICEF and US-AID who had  sponsored   in
providing the similar equipment.
e. Pellowship.
Most of staffs who werc sponsored to havo continuing education
and training cither overseaa  or in counLry, still being
uLilized to deal with nutrition program.
6. ComponenL Paramedical Nutrition Manpower Development.
1. Civil Work.
There are eight buildings had been contructed for Academics of
NuLritlon and School of Assistant Nutritionist .
Generally, all of them have been used as education activities
institution.
However two of them, i.- School of Assistant Nutritionist in
Surabaya and Academy of Nutrition Semarang, are not full



-34-
uLilized, because several rooin such as kitchern & laborntory
arc unwell condition due to the delay of utilization, so the
damage was not early delected until the period of maintenance
by the contractors was over.
b. Fqtuipment.
All of furnitture have been utilized appropriately
While vehicle, in general the condition are good, except onc
was damaged becausc of car crash.
The utilization of the vehicle are approriatc, especially for
the field work purpose.
c. Training
In general all training on nutrition program management have
been carried ouL in all Provinccs, and most of the trainees
have been utilized to deal with the nuLrition programme.
However there are several trainees who are not bcing utilized
because of many reasons such as changes Job and moved to other
area.
Training for health centre staff on nutrition program is very
usefull, especially for health centre that did not have
assistant nutritionist.
After the training, the nuLritLion worker is able to display
"SKDN" d&La properly and able to analize "SKDN" data related
with nutrition problems, and more competencc to do nutrition
education.
d. Fcllowship.
Most of the Teaching staff who were sent to got continuing
education   have been utilized in the education institution



-35-
3. THE STHRFN.G AND TH1F WFAKNESS OF NCH-1I E-ROJECI'
The sthreng of the projoct
- St.rengthening community participation through Posyandu program.
The awareness of commuinit.y on posyandu and the number of
posyandu increased
- 'rht faltlm ratrv' qar.-rir= Tl)l ivar-y wqcz imrp-nmv  *hi.nw:h  4h.
provision of prograri suppies  (equipment, drugs, vaccine,
mnanuals) and supervision
- Early detection of nutrition problem by TWIS (Timely Warning
and Intervention Systcm) program -
- Developinent of nationwide health campaign
- ImprovemcnL the number of nutrition worker through Educational
Institution carried out by Pusdiklat and IPB.
- The sustainability of the project such as
a. Thc concept of Posyandu lia.s been adopted -by community
b. The concept of NuLriLion Surveilance by Twrs program has
been adopted by Local Govcrnmcnt and will be continued as
"Local Area Monitorins" for nutrition.
c. The massage of health campaign has been accepted by
community  it  is  showed  b.y the  increase  number  of
immunization , thc u:c of ov-ulit cLc:.
The weakness of the project
- In  thc SAR (staff Appraigal Report) the target of the project
Wwvt  IiuL duCitiud quutiLiLa.Liv:ly, iL :iulAy miuL ULw uvuluLLd
properly *after the project completion.
- The changes of financial procedure Bank   (Prefinancing



-36-
procedure to Special Account procedure) make the difficulties
in rcplanishmcnt proccs3.
- 'he project covers many provinces (11 provinccs), and each
provinces implemented the project by five project of!icers, it
nmiy cause i.he dirtriculty Of coll.ect.lng project document and
regular project report
- Difficult to find old project document due the mutation of
project personnel and poor filling
- Program niAnager at every level are not well inform about the
administrative procedure of the IBRD loan
- There are problems relating to the distribution of equipment
and material, due to lack of coordination between   programme
orficer and the logigLic sLarf in thc Province.
- It is difficult to identify some of equipment which is similar
to the equipment sponsored by another donors such as Unicef,
WHO and USAID.
4. THE BANK AND PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Within five-year proJect there were no signiricant difficulty
wiLh the World Bank in relation with the            adminisLrative
aspects, especially to get ".Yo obJection' from          the World
Bank. Sometime it took 2 months, but sometime only 3 days to
get "No Objection"
Small problem we got was that some information jusL came out
from the World Bank in the last moment before the closing date
such as the project should conduct a study on Lhe impact of
the project (actually we have to be aware in Lhb beginning of
the project that the evaluaLion should be carried out at the
of Lhe projecL). By that timo the budget was not allocated in
the  "DIP".  To conduct this  study  need  more  time  for



-37-
preparation and   on the other hand the project didn't have
any basc line data to compare with the project's achivement.
1L Is  required  by  Lhe Barik that  any  activity  before
implemented should be approved by the Hank. To get those
approvals the project should submit the Term of Reference of
all activities that. will be implemented in a certain fiscal
year. TIhe prohlem was, it needec3 more time for components to
prcparc the TORs, so it made the secretariat sent. the TORs not
in orie Lime. Sometimes the TORs came soo late or right before
thc implementation time, it madc the secretariat did'nt have
enough time to review the TOR's.
Usually the secretariat sent TORs 'in Hay and June and the
approval camc in July or August. This would not be influenced
for Lhe implemenLaLlon the activity of training, workshop, and
fellowship, but it made delay the implementaLion of
procurement, study and civil work.
AfLer the project goL approval for the TORs of the procurement
-of materials, books, equipment, and civil work in July or
August the project should request another "No Objection" for
the bidding document, and then "No Objection" for the
cornLrzacL. Consequently the process of procurcmcnts will take
more than one fiscal year.
Since all the activities had been appraised by IBRD is it
still needed thc "No objecLion"  for the TORs of all  the
activities ?
IL will help the project to speed up the implementation if the
Bank limits the TORs of the activities that should be approved
such as for study and technical assistant.



-38-
Z. PRHT.FMS
There are several constrains thatshave been occured during
the iinplementaLion of the projecL :
a. Problem in preparing anual finance report
February 1936-March 1988 the project followed the
Prefinancing  system  and  starting  April  1988  finance
regulaltion change to SpeCial Accoujnt.. The changes of the
regulatiorn mtoide the problem of disbursement  and annual
finance report, becca:se the tinit, thriL responsible for
disbursement of Prefinancing separate with the unit that
responsible for Special Account in the Ministry of Finance.
The Project Secretariat that responsible for the finance
report got difficulty in searching documents due to the
unmatch report made by Prefinance unit arid Special Account
Unit. It took more time to match the figures.
b. Problem on disbursement acceleration:
The responasible unLit in the MinisLry of Finance process the
replenishment based on the document cojining from the
provincial Finance Office. Thosc documcnt stated the number
of money that had been used by Lhe project paid by Bank of
Indonesia at provincial level. Periodically the Bank of
Indonesia made report to MOF  and based on thaL report the
MOF did the replenishment. Moreoften the document was not
compleLe to back up thc replcnishment. This document was
suppposed to be sent to MOF by Provincial Finance Office.
Lack of document needed fox the replcnishment made the
disbursement was very low. To overcome those problem the
secretariat developed a collaboration with the responsible
unit in M.OF by periodically meeting and work togcther to do
Lhe rcplenishmcnt. The Projcct Sccrctariat collected document
of payment and other suppoting document needed for
replenishment directly from the Project Officer at Central
and Provincial level. This kind of collaboration could help
to speed up the disbursoment.



-39-
c.At provincial level there were no coordinating untt to
coordinaLe and supervise the impldhentation of the project.
There was only one person of each province appointed as
liaison officer as a part timc job with very small incentive.
This person could not do much, each project officer made
direct conl.act with Project nirector through project
secretat,iat at central level, so in the last two years of the
project there was no liaison appointed. The secretariat had
made direct corntact with each of Project Officer at
provincial levCl or through CenLral Component.
For tie next project  a secretariat unit &L provincial level
is needed to help project officer in administrative aspects
beside to coordinate and supervise the project implementation.
d. Program manager and projcct officer aL every level were
not well informed about the administrative procedure of IERD
Loan, make the different perception.
c. Tho mechanism and flow of reporting was not working well
f. Diffictult to find out the old project's document due to
poor filing system and mutation of project personnel
This weakness of the projecL implementation is a good leouon
learn for the next proJect.



-40-
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related Bank Loans
Loan/Credit                                  Year of
Title              Purpose                   Approval        Status
Cr. 1373-IND    To enhance GO(   capacity to   M a r c h   Completed
Fwrst Nutrition   formulate and execute nutrition   14, 1977    March  31,
Development   programs,  operations,                      1982
Project         research, manpower training
and monitoring and evaluation
by   strengthening   and
expanding the existing nucleus
of personnel and institution
Ln. 2529-IND    To assist GOI in strengthening   July  18,   C I o s e d
P o u r t h   its family planning services   1985         December 31,
Population   and carry out its population                 1992
Project         policy  development  and
planning
Ln. 3042-IND    To assist GOI improve the   June  1,   Ongoing
Third   Health   delivery of health services and   1989
Project         raise health status in NTB and
Kaltim through better and
more  decentralized  health
sector planning, budgeting and
management
Ln. 3298-IND    To  assist GOI in  further   May   1,   Ongoing
Fifth Population   reducing fertility and maternal   1991
Project         mortality by strengthening the
family planning and maternal
health programs
Ln.3550-IND    To elevate infant, child and   December   GOI informed
T  h  i r d   maternal health status in five   22, 1992    of  board
Community   provinces  by  (a) building                   approval
Health  and   provincial capacity to plan,
N u t r i t i o n   manage and evaluate relevant
Project          interventions   and
(b) strengthening central MOH
to support provincial efforts



-41-
2. Project Timetable
Date                 Date                 Date
Item                 Planned              Revised              Actual
Identification
(Executive Project
Summary)                                                       May 14, 1985
Preparation          August 1984          October 18, 1984     October 18,1984
Appraisal Mission    March 1985                                July 1, 1985
Loan Negotiation     August 16, 1985      September 9, 1985    October 21, 1985
Board Approval       September 14, 1985   October 29, 1985     Nonbor  26, 1985
Loan Signature       December 19, 1985                         Deamlib  19, 1985
Loan Effectiveness    February 21, 1986                        Febuary 21, 1986
Loan Closing         December 31, 1991                        D1amtw 31, 1991
Loan Completion      March 31, 1991                            May 11, 1992



-42-
3. Cumubathve Estimated and Actulb   Disbursement
(USS 000)
1986       1987      1988        1989       1990       1991       1992
Appraial Edimate        400.00   4,700.00  12,700.00  20,700.00  30,700.00 33,4000.00  33,168.88
Actud                 2,678.44   8,57S.OS   8,7S7.05  12,219.48  19,951.94  25,786.07  31,807.97
Actlul   S
of Entimte              669.61     18245       68.95       59.03      64.99      77.20      95.30
Deb of Final DiAusmewn May 11, 1992
Odi&iWl Loan Anmoun wsu USS33,400.0
Canelled US$1,592.03
Cumulative, Estimated and Actual Diburmmeent
35
3 0..              . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
1 5_
320              .. . . . ...  .   .. . ..    ....  .....
2  0        .. . . . .. .. . . . . . ...   . ....... . . .        .. .
1    5 -     - .    ...... . .  .....           ... . . . . . . . . . . . . .
1   0  ...   .......   ...      . ...... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
S     5          ......... .    -.....  i ... . . . .. . . . .. . . .
8Be        8 7             8 889            9 0        91          9 2



-43-
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal         Actual
(PCR Estimate)
1.0 Community Participation
1.1  Training and orientation of village   16,500villagesin   33,000   key
leaders  in  the  organization  of   11 provinces     persons  and
posyandu and purpose of the five                      I e a d e r s
health programs                                       participated.
1.2  Training  of  village  kaders  in  in 16,500 villages   32,273posyandus
organization and motivation and the   in 11 provinces  (Acceleration/
basic technical content and activities                Basic training)
of the five health programs
2.0 Planning, Management and Supervision
2.1  Micro-planning                     1,200  health   187 districts in
centers/sub-   project provinces
centers  in  31
districts
2.2 Planning and management training for
integrated FP and Health                              44 persons
- National                                            1,870 persons
- Province                                            16,488 persons
- District
2.3  Supervision
- Health center manuals                               18,000 copies
- Supervision manuals                                 6,000 copies
3.0 Communication
3.1  Equipment/materials
- Posters                                             1.5 million
- Counselling cards                                   1.1 million
- Manuals for kaders                                  426,500
- Manuals for providers                               126,500
- Action sheets                                       500,000
- Counselling cassettes                               110,000
- Others (e.g., radio, TV campaign)



-44-
Appraisal          Actual
(PCR Estimate)
3.2 Training in
- health education                                     4,889
- counselling cards
Villages                                            5,400
Subdistrict                                         7,613 persons
District/Province                                   543 persons
4.0 Mother and Child Health
4.1  Mother awareness training for
- Health center (HC) nurse                             1,890 nurses
- Kader                                                1,714 kaders
- ANC training for HC nurse                            3,859 nurses
- TBA                                                  13,510 persons
- Guidance for TBA                                     149,665
5.0 rumely Warning and Intervention (FWIS)
5.1  Feasibility studies                 37 districts in all   At  least  55
11 provinces      districts in 24
provinces
5.2  Start TWIS implementation                              5 5   i n  1 3
provinces
6.0 Nutrition Monitoring and Assessment
6.1  Anthropometric  measuresment for   1986                Done in 1986,
SUSENAS                             1987               1987, 1988
1988
SUSENAS
6.2  Research/studies                    (see Table 9 for   Completed (all)
studies)
7.0 Improving Nutrition Manpower Development
7.1  Paramedical  Nutrition  Manpower   2  nutrition   Completed
Development                         academics          5 academies
3 schools
6  assistant   1,158  middle
nutritionist   level  nutrition
schools           works trained



-45-
Appraisal         Actual
(PCR Estimate)
7.2  Graduate  nutrition  manpower   GMSK-IPB            Completed  3-
development                       building           story   GMSK
building
(5,980 sq m)
Staff             7  overseas
development       fellowships
(doctoral/
masters degree)



-46-
5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Aopraisal Estimate      Revised Estimate          Actual
Foreign                Foreign                 Foreign
Local  Exchange         Local Exchange         Local  Exchange
Items                     Cost   Costs   Total   Cost  Costs   Total   Coat   Coats  Total
A. Strengthening
Coordination and
Management of
Community Health
Community Participation   6.00    0.10    6.10      0        0     0     4.65   0.14   4.79
Planning, Management
and Supervision           4.70    0.50    5.20     0        0      0     8.56   0.23   2.59
Communications            2.50    1.20    3.70      0        0     0      1.77   0.87   2.64
Community Health
Secretariat               0.80    0.20    1.00     0        0      0     0.68   0.25   0.93
Program Operations
Support Funds             0       5.00    5.00     0        0      0     0      8.80   8.80
Subtotal               14.00    7.00   21.00     0        0      0    15.66  10.30   25.96
B. Development of Nutrition
Surveillance
Timely Warning and
Intervention              3.30    0.60    3.90     0        0      0    0.65   0.11   0.76
Nutrition Monitoring
and Assment               3.90    0.50    4.40     0        0      0    2.42   0.33   2.75
Nutrition Policy and
Program Studies           0.60    0.50    1.10     0        0      0     1.05   0.79    1.85
Nutrition Information     0.50    0.40    0.90      0        0     0    0.40   0.33   0.73
Subtotal                8.30    2.00   10.30     0        0      0    4.52   1.57   6.08
C. Improvement Nutrition
Manpower Development
Paramedical Manpower
Development               6.60    2.10    8.70     0        0      0    4.88   1.54   6.42
Graduate Manpower
Development               3.30    1.70    5.00     0        0      0    2.00   1.03   3.03
Subtotal                9.90    3.80   13.70     0        0      0    6.88   2.57    9.45
Toal Baselioe Cost        322    12.80   45.00                                   4  2  L 4.44  41.49
(excl. taxes)
Physical contingencies     0.80    0.40    1.20     0        0      0    0.67   0.36    1.04
Price contingencies        8.50    1.50   10.00     0        0      0     8.82   1.56   10.37
Tobl Project Cost         41    14.70   56.20       2        2      2   3       13   52
(excl. taxes)
Taxes (incl. contingencies)  1.50    0     1.50     0        0      0     1.54   0       1.54
Total Project Cost        1       14.70  ,57.70     2        2      2   38.09  1i6 3
(incl. taxes)



-47-
5. Project Costs and Financing
B. Project Flnandng
Percent of           Planned
Disburemnent         Loan
Source                            Agremcnt          Rcvisod                 FIl
(USS '000)    (USS'O000)  (%)       (USS'O000)  (%)
IBRD
Expenditure
Categories                        33,400.0      33,168.88   99.31     31,807.97    9530
Civil workm       75%              6,175.00      2,997.00   48.53      3,499.15   116.76
Equ./Furn Ex.Al&AS 100%,95%,65%   3,135.00       6,300.00  200.96      5,840.97    92.71
Equip/Matl PT.S    100%            4,750.00      8,370.88  176.23      8,811.40   105.25
Consul/Pllowshps    100%           6,840.00      5,695.00   83.26      5,272.89    92.59
Tnining           70%              9,120.00      5,096.00   55.88      5,377.70   105.53
Studies           100%             1,710.00      2,820.00  164.91      3,005.70   106.59
Unalcated                          1,670.00      1,890.00  113.17          0        0
Undisbursed (-)                        0             0       0         1,592.03     0
Cofinancing
Inxliuton                              0             0                     0
Other External
Source                                 0             0                     0
Domestic          n.a             24,300.00     24,283.23   99.93      7,688.31    31.641A
TOWa                            VM.ffZ        57.452.11    629L2iI               I75
Comment
t TIe large discrepancy in domestic expenditure (in USS) is due to the depreciation of the local currency.



-48-
6. Status of Covenants
Deadline for
Covenants               Subject                Compliance       Status
Ln. 2636-IND    E v a I u a t i o n   o f   September  30,   Completed
"Microplanning"             1986               1987
Ln. 2636-IND    Preparation of supervision   September  30,   Completed
guidelines/manuals          1986               1990
Ln. 2636-IND    Preparation of supervision   March 31, each   Compliance
schedules                   year
Ln. 2636-IND    Baseline survey, (Evaluation   October 1, 1986    Completed
of  Integrated   Health                        1987
Program)
Ln. 2636-IND    Mid-project Evaluation      April 30, 1988     Completed
1989
Ln. 2636-IND    Annual plans  of Timely   May  31, 1986   Completed
Warning  and  Intervention   and every year   1 9  8  6
System                      March 31           Compliance
until 1989
Ln'. 2636-IND    Annual  workplans  for   May  31, 1986   Completed
nutrition policy and programs   and every year   1 9  8  6
studies                     March 31           Compliance
until 1988
Ln. 2636-IND    Establishment of Nutrition   May 31, 1986      Completed
Information Unit                               1987
Ln. 2636-IND    Project vehicles:
- Strengthening   proj.   March 31, 1987    Completed
secretariat (2 SWs)                          1990
- Strengthening  operational   March 31, 1987    Completed
activity (2 FWDs)                            1991
- Support school activity   March 31, 1988    Completed
(16 SWs)                                     1 9  91
(9 SWs)
- Support  for  Safe               -           Completed
Motherhood   activity                        1 9  9  1
(motorcycles)                                (200 MCs)
Comments
FWS - four-wheel drive
SW - station wagon
MC - motorcycle
At appraisal, GOI was expected to finance and procure the vehicles. However, during
project implmentation the Bank agreed to loan financing for their purchase. GOI was
m financial difficulties during project implementation and the number of vehicles
involved was relatively small.



-49-
7. Use of Bank Resources
A. STAFF INP1TS (STAFF WEEKS)
Stage of Project Cycle                 Planned         Fmal
Through Appraisal                               n/a            31.8
Appraisal through Board Approval                n/a            52.3
Board Approval through Effectiveness            n/a            10.0
Supervision                                     n/a            92.5
PCR                                             7.0             4.0
Totl                                          n/a



7. USE OF BANK RESOURCES                         B. MISSIONS
Days Special-              Performance Rating Status
No. of  in   izations    Available  Project    Development Overall
Month/Year Persons Field Represented   Funds   Management  Impact    Status  Covenant
TIhrough Appraisal  3/84        n.a  n.a        n.a
10/84         n.a  n.a       n.a
Appraisal         3/85          n.a  n.a        n.a
Appraisal through   11/85       n.a  n.a        n.a
Board Approval
thru effectiveness  3/86       n.a  n.a        n.a
Supervision       10/86          5   20         n.a        I         1            1        1
Supervision       8/87           9   24         n.a       2          1            2        1
Supervision       3/88           3   23         n.a       3          2            2        3
Mid-term Review   10/88          6   13         n.a       2          2            2       2
Supervision       2/89           6   13         E,L        1         1            2       2
Review of Progress 9/89           1   12                   1         1            2        2     1
Supervision       6/90           2    5         E,L        1         1            2        2     1
Supervision       2/91           2   10         E,L        I         1            2        2     1
Supervision       11/91          2    8         E,L        1         1            1        1
PCR               12/92          2              E,L
SWecializations   E=Economist, H=Health Specialist (local staff)



-51-
8. Studies
Purpose as Defined                                Impact
Studies           at Appraisal                    Status             of Studies
Study of training   To review existing materials and    Completed   Used  in  developing
materials  for   develop training  module for   1987             standards  for  kader
kaders             posyandu kaders                               training nationwide.
Assessment  of   To collect and analyze base line   Completed   Basic data underpinned
Integrated Family   data                           1986         development  of
Health Package                                                   posyandu  and
President's declartion
extending it throughout
the country on the
National Health Day
November 12, 1986.
S t u d y   o f   To assess the 'Microplanning   Completed   Improved planning  at
Microplanning    Program'                          1986          Puskesmas
Programs
Study  of media   To  define  social marketing   Completed   More effective posyandu
m a t e r i a I s ,   strategy and appropriate media    1 9 8 8 ,   promotion,  kader
including   KAP    for posyandu  promotion  in   1989, 1991    counselling, community
studies  in  nine   project provinces                           participation   and
provinces                                                        utilization of the five
health services.
Mid-term Review    T o  r e v i e w   p r o j e c t   Completed   Reprogramming  of
implementation                 1988          project implementation
Privatecommunity   To  explore  use  of Rapid   Completed   Data base for CHN m
midwives roles in   Assessment  Procedures  to   1991            Project
MCH activities at   collect health data for 1986
grassroot level.   Household Survey
Clearing house for                                 Completed   System not installed yet.
community health                                   1991
studies
Anthropometric   To define nutrition status and its   Completed   Use to define welfare
measurement  of   measure for SUSENAS              1 9 8 7 ,   indicators
preschool-age                                      1988, 1989
children



-52-
Purpose as Defined                               Impoct
Studies           at Appraisal                   Status             of Studios
Evaluation   of   To  improve  monitorirg  of   Completed    Natonwide  utilintion
UPGK's monthly   nutrition status of children     19M7          of improved  SKDN
growth monitoring
system (SKDN)
and development
of additional
SKDN indicators
Protein-energy   To assess prevalence of PEM    Completed   U n d e r p i n no d
malnutrition    androleofUPOK                     1988          development  of
(PEM)  mortality                                                Nutrition   Status
a nd  UPGK                                                      Monitoring  (NSM)
p r o g r a  m                                                  progra
participation
Assessment  of   To evaluate the NSM              Completed
Nutrition   Status                                1990
Monitoring
Assessment of Vit   To define Vit A  and other   Completed   Data used in p       _
A   and  other   nutrition deficiency pmoblome    1991          Cimmity Hl  and
n u t r i t i o n a I   better                                  NUtritiIn  I (CEN II
deficiency                                                      Prject
problems in
eastern part of
TWIS  feasibility   To identify aroea  for TWIS    Completed   Bsis for uleton  of
studies            implemation                    1986/1987   areas for implementing
through    TWIS
198911990
Formulation   of   To collect and analyze data for   Completed    Underpinned RepitV
food and nutrition   naionl planing               1990         mntrition  policy  and
policy and plan                                                strey
for PELITA V



