Docuimut Of
The World Bank
Fo omacAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4180-INqD
U-
REPORT AND RECO4EWNDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
IITRNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEOPM
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$33.4 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR THE
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMNTY EATI PRCJECT
November 1, 1985
INThS iomt bh a g~dI dbbumibIm mud =oy be vmum by rediphats e:y Insd pthr uiomueef
dh* agEd  iim. I1t mmlmts _  mt edwise be ibiwed withot Wod lBnk a_draio.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00       =  Rp 1,100
Rp I million  =  US$909
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ACRONYMS AND INITIALS
BAPPENAS    -   National Development Planning Agency
GMSK        -   Department of Community Nutrition and Family Resources
&OI         -   Government of Indonesia
ICB         -   International Competitive Bidding
IPB         -   Institute of Agriculture, Bogor
LCB         -   Local Competitive Bidding
IKD        -   Village Self-Reliance Board
MCH         -   Maternal and Child Health
-OH        --  Ministry of Health
NFPCB       -   National Family Planning Coordinating Board
PCM         -   Protein-Calorie Malnutrition
PKMD        -   Village Community Health Development Program
PUSDIKLAT   -   Center for Education and Training of Eealth Personnel
REPELITA    -   National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita I, 1969-74;
Repelita II, 1974-79; Repelita III, 1979-84; Repelita IV,
1984-89; Repelita V, 1989-94; Repelita VI, 1994-99)
TWIS        -   Timely Warning and Intervention System
UNICEF      -   United Nations Children's Fund
UPGK        -   Family Nutrition Improvement Program
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
VCDC        -   Village Contraceptive Distribution Center
WHO         -   World Health Organization
.
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:         Republic of Indonesia
Amount:           US$33.4 million equivaLent
Terms:            Repayable in 20 years, including 5 years of grace, at the
standard variable rate
Project
Description:    The project's objectives would be threefold:  (a) to
strengthen the coordination and management of five community
health programs aimed at significantly reducing infant,
child and maternal mortality in eleven priority provinces,
including direct operational support to these five programs
individually; (b) to further develop Indonesia's nutrition
surveillance capability in four areas: timely warning and
intervention, nutrition monitoring and assessment, nutrition
policy and program studies, and nutrition information; and
Cc) to improve nutrition manpower development at the para-
medical and graduate levels. The project's principal direct
benefits would include: improved coordination and manage-
ment, and thus increased effectiveness and efficiency, of
village-level community health (family planning, health and
nutrition) services; enhanced national capability to predict
and influence changes in nutrition status, strengthened
program monitoring and evaluation capacity, and improved
food and nutrition policies; and a more adequate stock of
trained nutrition manpower for program management and imple-
mentation, and for policy formulation and planning. The
project's main risk is that the desired coordination of the
five community health programs at the village level may not
be fully achieved, or may be substantially delayed. This
risk is unavoidable in an integrated approach or process of
this nature; the project design, which places considerable
emphasis on strengthening the planning, managerial and
monitoring capacity of the key Ministry of Health (MOH)
b                         units concerned with program implementation, should serve to
minimize the risk.
This document has a resicted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutis Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign      Total
-           [(USs Million)
A. Strengthening Coordination and Manage-
ment of Community Health
1.  Conmmtnity Participation                     6.0         0.1         6.1
2.  Planning, Management and Supervision         4.7          0.5        5.2
3.  Communications                               2.5          1.2        3.7
4.  Community Health Secretariat                 0.8          0.2        1.0
5.  Program Operations Support Fund               -           5.0        5.0
Subtotal                                 14.0         7.0        21.0
B.  Developing Nutrition Surveillance
1.  Timely Warning and Intervention              3.3          0.6        3.9
2.  Nutrition Monitoring and Assessment          3.9          0.5        4.4
3.  Nutrition Policy and Program Studies         0.6          0.5        1.1
4.  Nutrition Information                        0.5          0.4        0.9
Subtotal                                  8.3         2.0        10.3
C. Improving Nutrition Manpower Development
1.  Paramedical Manpower Development             6.6         2.1         8.7
2.  Graduate Manpower Development                3.3          1.7        5.0
Subtotal                                 9.9          3.8        13.7
Base Costs (excluding taxes)            32.2         12.8        45.0
Physical Contingencies                           0.8          0.4        1.2
Price Coatingencies                              8.5          1.5       10.0
Total Project Cost (excluding taxes)   41.5          14.7        56.2
Taxes including contingencies                    1.5           -         1.5
Total Project Cost (including taxes)   43.0          14.7        57.7



- iii -
Financing Plan:
Local      Foreign      Total
-      (US$ Million)
IBRD                                           19.1         14.3       33.4
Government of Indonesia                        23.9          0.4       24.3
Total                                   43.0         14.7       57.7
Disbursements Estimated:
Bsank FY     1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991
(US$ Mi'ion)
Annual                               0.4    4.3    8.0    8.0   10.0    2.7
Cumlative                            0.4    4.7   12.7   20.7   30.7   33.4
Rate of Return:   Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  No. 5840-I!! dated November 1, 1985.
Mp: IBRD No. 19285.
j~~~



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC
OF INDONESIA FOR THE SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of US$33.4 miLlion to help
finance the Second Nutrition and Community Health Project. The loan would
have a term of 20 years, including five years of grace, at the standard vari-
able interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY V
2.        A basic economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Pro-
gress and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979, and a country
economic memorandum has been prepared in each subsequent year. The latest of
these, entitled "Indonesia: Policies for Growth and Employment" (No. 5597-IND
dated April 23, 1985), was distributed to the Executive Directors on April 30,
1985. Annex I gives selected social and economic indicators for the country.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is a highly diverse country spread across
an archipelago of more than 13,000 islands with a land area of about two mil-
lion sq km. It now has a population of over 155 million, growing at about
2.1% p.a., and is the world's fifth most populous nation. The country has a
diversified resource base, with plentiful primary energy resources, signifi-
cant mineral deposits, large timber potential and a developed system of agri-
cultural commodity production and export. A high proportion of these primary
resources are located on the sparsely populated islands of Sumatra and Kali-
mantan, while two-thirds of the population live on Java, which has areas with
some of the highest rural population densities in the world. About a quarter
of the population lives in urban areas, and the current rate of urban popula-
tion growth is about 42 p.a. The 1983 estimate of GNP per capita is US$560,
which places Indonesia among middle income countries.2_
I/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project (No. P-4155-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-306, dated October 3, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on October 22, 1985.
2/   On the basis of the World Bank's system of country classification and
Atlas methodology for calculation of CNP.



- 2 -
Macroeconomic Developments and Resource Management
4.        Until 1981, the economy had been growing at almost 8% p.a. for over
a decade. This growth was associated with rapid increases in public expendi-
tures, total investment and savings. The initial impetus for this occurred in
the period of recovery from the turbulence of the mid-1960s. The Government
of Indonesia (COI) took effective action to restore macroeconomic stability,
libera]ize the economy, rehabilitate infrastructure, and provide incentives
for domestic and foreign private investment. However, the dominant external
influence over the past decade has been the huge expansion, and significant
variability, in foreign exchange earnings from oil. Net exports from the oil
and gas sector rose from US$0.6 billion in 1973/74 to US$10.6 billion in
1980/81, when the current account enjoyed a surplus of US$2.1 billion. Oil
receipts also provided about 60Z of Central Government receipts by 1980181 and
helped finance a sustained increase in demand. The pattern of expenditures
has also helped foster diversified growth. Of particular note has been the
support for agriculture, through investment in infrastructure and support ser-
vices. This supported an agricultural growth rate of almost 4% p.a. over the
past decade, and led to the recent achievement of self-sufficiency in rice.
Manufacturing also enjoyed a high growth rate during the 1970s (of about 14%
p.a.), although this was from a very low base and predominantly oriented
toward the protected domestic market.
5.        During 1982, the Indonesian economy was affected adversely by the
protracted international recession and the accompanying decline in export
earnings, especially from oil. These developments led te a sharp turnaround
in Indonesia's external resource position and a fall in real per capita
incomes. In response, the Government acted promptly to ensure that the
country's balance of payments situation was manageable and to provide a basis
for longer-term structural transformation. Particular attention was paid to
reducing Indonesia's dependence on oil for export earnings and public
revenues. Specific measures introduced over the past two years include:
(a) a 28% devaluation of the rupiah against the US dollar in March 1983,
without any change in the policy of full convertibility;
(b) a major rephasing (postponement/cancellation) of large-scale and
import-intensive public investments, especially in the industrial
sector;
(c) successive price increases for petroleum products, which have
largely eliminated domestic subsidies;
(d) a far-reaching financial reform, including the liberalization of
interest rates and the abandonment of credit ceilings;
(e) introduction of a comprehensive tax reform program, aimed at
increasing government revenues by broadening the tax base, simplify-
ing the structure of rates and improving administration; and



-3-
(f) an ongoing effort to reduce the unfavorable impact of the regulatory
framework, including simplification of investment approval proce-
dures and a major reorganization of customs, ports and shipping
operations.
6.        These measures, aided by more favorable trends in the worLd economy,
are already having their desired impact. CDP, led by strong performance in
the oil (including LNG and refining) and agriculture sectors, rose by an
estimated 4.7% in 1983 and 6.5Z in 1984. The balance of payments situation is
also improving. In particular, the current account deficit was reduced from
US$7.1 billion (8.5Z of GNP) in 1982/83 to an estimated US$1.9 billion (2.4Z
of GNP) in 1984/B5. The major factors responsible for this improvement are
import cuts, resulting from the Government's efforts to curb aggregate demand,
and higher export earnings from non-oil products, due to recovery in the
industriaL countries and the Government's policies to promote non-oil exports.
The Government's restraint is also evident in the budget, where real expendi-
tures have probably fallen over the past three years. This fiscal discipLine,
in turn, helped keep domestic inflation down co about 12Z in 1983 and 9Z in
1984, despite the inevitable pressures associated with the 1983 devaluation
and the petroleum price adjustments.
Policies for Medium-Term Growth and Transformation
7.        Sustained growth of the non-oil economy by at least 5% p.a. is
probably necessary to have a significant impact on employment creation and
poverty alleviation over the remainder of this decade. To promote such a
growth rate, without generating unmanageable balance of payments pressures, is
one of the major challenges facing the Government. Successful transformation
of the economy will require continued action in three key policy areas:
management of the public investment program (and improvements in the regu-
latory/policy environment for private investment), rationalization of the
external trade regime and development of the financial sector.
8.        The projected import constraint imposes serious limitations on the
rate at which Indonesia can undertake new investments over the next few
years. At the same time, some reallocation of resources towards agriculture
and the social sectors might be justified, in order to reduce the import con-
tent of investment while still meeting the Cover ent's employment objec-
tives. It is therefore important that mechanisms are established to facili-
tate orderly and rational adjustments to the public investment program. Pos-
sible options include preparation of multi-year expenditure plans (at least
for the larger projects), identification of a core program of high priority
projects and strengthening of project appraisal/selection procedures. The
Government is also considering ways to improve project implementation, so that
investment returns can be realized more promptly. Given the budgetary con-
straints, it is expected that the private sector will be called upon to play
an increasingly important role in capital formation. To encourage this pro-
cess, the Government recently announcen simplifications in investment approval
procedures and a major internal reorganization of the Investment Coordinating
Board.



-4-
9.        The recent decline in the price of oil has clearly demonstrated the
importance of reducing the economy's heavy dependence on a single source of
foreign exchange and, more generally, the need to rationalize the external
trade regime. The Government has set a target of doubling non-oil exports in
nominal terms over the next five years. This target should be attainable
provided that economic recovery in the industrial economies is sustained,
Indonesia's access to those markets is not constrained by protectionist
measures and, most importantLy, Indonesia follows appropriate t-;ade and
exchange rate policies. The Government has already introduced a range of
export promotion measures intended to improve export incentives, ensure ready
access to finance for exporters, raise product quality and enhance marketing
capacity. However, over the longer term, there is no effective substitute for
comprehensive trade reform. On the import side, Indonesia's trade regime has
historically been characterized by a predilection for high tariffs and quanti-
tative restrictions. In March 1985, the Government announced a major reduc-
tion in the range and level of nominal import tariffs. However, other actions
-- including increased use of import quotas/bans and regulations requiring
higher local content in production - lave served to promote some potentially
costly and uneconomic investments which could prove counterproductive to the
export drive.
10.       The Government's decision to move towards a more liberal financial
environment raises a number of issues relating to resource mobilization,
financial intermediation and credit allocation. Over the longer term, as the
scope for subsidized credit is reduced, the banking system will have to play
an increasingly important role in mobilizing domestic resources. However,
during the transition period, some potential conflicts between the resource
mobilization and credit allocation objectives could arise. For example, the
increase in deposit rates iollowing the recent financial reforms, while
encouraging resource mobilization, has also led to high real lending rates
which have tended to dampen investment and credit demand. This in turn may
restrain economic activity. It is therefore important to find ways to reduce
the high intermediation costs of banks. Consideration should also be given to
other ways of mobilizing financial resources, including development of a
capital market, expansion of the banking network (especially in rural areas)
and selective relaxation of restrictions on private banks (combined with
increased bank supervision).
Incomes, Employment and Human Development
11.       Indonesia's physical, human and economic resources are very unevenly
distributed between its main regions. Java, for example, accounts for almost
50% of Indonesia's GDP and 62% of its population, but only 7% of its land
area. Although all five of the country's main regions experienced rapid per
capita growth in the 1970s, regional differences in output tended to widen.
To a large extent, differences in performance are associated with the impor-
tance of the mineral sector, particularly petroleum. However, there are two
important processes at work in Indonesia which enable the benefits of growth
to be more evenly spread than indicated by output trends. The first of these
is migration. Between 1971 and 1980, 4.3 million people (or 16% of the
natural increase in population) resettled permanently in provinces outside
those of their birth. Approximately 1.7 million people moved from Java to the



- 5 -
Other Islands, of whom some 675,000 were resettled through the official trans-
migration program. There has also been substantial rural-urban migration both
between and within provinces. The second process is the redistrioution of
income through the government budget. Regional variations in per capita
consumption are much less pronounced than differences in per capita output.
This is largely due to the impact of taxation on the oil sector.
12.       An analysis of household expenditures indicates that Indonesia's
rapid economic development has been accompanied by significant progress in
reducing poverty. Between 1970 and 1980, the proportion of the population
living in poverty declined from 57% to 40%; the decline was particularly rapid
in the Other Islands and in urban areas. The core of the poverty problem con-
tinues to be in rural Java, where landless laborers form a large, and possibly
rising, proportion of the population and where, for most of the 1970s, there
is little evidence of any rise in real agricultural wages. However, there was
a significant rise in real agricultural wages around 1980-81, associated with
the sharp increase in rice output and booming overall economic growth.
Increases in rural non-agricultural and urban wages also occurred at the
beginning of the 1980s. Despite the slowdown in economic growth and stabili-
zation measures since 1982, the limited available evidence suggests that wages
and incomes have held up, partly as a consequence of continued agricultural
growth.
13.       In the future, the availability of productive employment will be a
key determinant of income distribution. The labor force is expected to grow
at about 2.3Z p.a. over the next decade, while economic growth will be Lower
than in the 1970s. The resultant squeeze in the labor market is not expected
to lead to a dramatic increase in unemployment but there is a serious risk of
stagnant or declining labor income in both rural areas and the urban informal
sector. Given the balance of payments constraint facing the country,
Indonesia's employment outlook depends crucially on the pattern of economic
growth, and in particular the extent of Labor absorption in the commodity-
producing sectors. Although over the long term the structural shift in
employment away from agriculture should continue, this sector will still
account for half or more of total employment and the growth in agricultural
incomes will be an important determinant of job opportunities elsewhere in
non-farm activities. This will require continued priority to agriculture in
the form of supportive pricing and investment policy, with some shift in
emphasis toward the Other Islands. On Java, attention will need to be paid to
issues of agricultural diversification and the pace of mechanization. TJ:_h
respect to the industrial sector, the development of an efficient, relatively
export-oriented pattern of production can also contribute to significant labor
absorption in the medium to long term, especially in Java; this will involve a
continuing major role for small-scale firms. If a favorable evolution of the
employment situation is to occur, there will also need to be an appropriate
pattern of public expenditure and supportive policies for the urban informal
sector; finally, the transmigration program can make a substantial contribu-
tion, provided it is closely coordinated with complementary agricultural
investment programs, in tree crops, water resources and livestock development.
14.       There has been substantial progress in extending the provision of
social services throughout the population. Universal enrollment in primary



- 6 -
education has been virtually achieved and the enrollment rate in secondary
schools is now about 35Z. However, the weak educational base of the popula-
tion continues to be a major obstacle to rapid economic development and a
substantial further expansion of secondary and tertiary education will be
necessary as well .as a major effort to raise the quality of the whole system.
In the health sector, there has been a large expansion in facilities, notably
at the sub-district level, but continued investment and an improvement in
quality will be necessary to increase effectiveness. This will have to be
complemented by a major expansion in water supply and sanitation if the
improvement in indices of mortality and morbidity during the 1970s is to be
maintained. By 1981, only 18Z of the rural and 40% of the urban population
had access to safe water, compared with government targets of 60Z and 75Z,
respectively, for 1990.
External Capital Flows
15.       The recent improvement in Indonesia's balance of payments situation
is evidence of the Government's commitment to manage short-term economic
shocks. The ongoing program of economic reforms should also help to hold the
current accoun, deficit to sustainable levels over the medium term. Even so,
continued resource transfers from abroad will still be essential if the
Covernment's modest growth targets (5% p.a.) for the next five years are to be
achieved. Staff projections indicate that new public medium- and long-term
(MLT) borrowing will have to average about US$5.2 billion p.a. over the next
three years, including about US$2.5 billion p.a. of official development
assistance and the balance from import-related credits and untied borrowing.
Indonesia is well placed to arrange the necessary financing on reasonable
terms; the profile of existing debts is good and a comfortable level of exter-
nal reserves has'been rebuilt over the past two years.
16.       Total public debt outstanding at the end of 1984 is estimated at
US$22.9 billion, with an additional US$14.0 billion of undisbursed comnit-
ments. Of the total debt disbursed and outstanding, official assistance
(including non-concessional multilateral aid) accounts for 50Z and obligations
at variable interest rates for only 24%; there is no short-term public debt.
The average maturity of public MLT debt at the end of 1984 is estimated at
16 years. The Government continues to manage its external debt quite pru-
dently. Until 1982, Indonesia had succeeded in maintaining its public debt
service ratio, based on net exports (i.e., net of oil sector imports), at or
below 20Z. However, because of the sharp drop in oil export receipts over the
past three years, the ratio rose to 25% in 1984. With the projected levels
and composition of borrowings and export earnings, Indonesia's public debt
service ratio, again based on net exports, would rise to about 30Z in 1989 and
then gradually decline in later years. With private MLT debt included, the
total debt service ratio, based on the conventional concept of gross exports,
would rise from 21% in 1984 to around 24% in 1989 and decline back to 22% by
1995. While debt management will require careful attention in the coming
years, the projected debt service ratios are not excessive by international
standards.



- 7 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA 3/
17.       As of September 30, 1985, Indonesia had received 48 IDA credits
coralling US$910.08 million (less cancellations) and 101 Bank loans amounting
to US$7,859.57 million (less cancellations). IFC commitments totalled
US$163.2 million.  Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and
IFC investments as of September 30, 1985. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1983 was
13.1%, and the share of debt service, 10.3Z compared with 13.3% and 7.9Z,
respectively, in 1982. From 1968 until 1974, all Lending to Indonesia was
made through IDA. Due to tie country's improved creditworthiness following
the commodity and oil price boom in L973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's
lending in the remainder of the 1970s was through IBRD loans, with a modest
amount of IDA lending being justified primarily on poverty grounds, as the per
capita GNP was well below the IDA cutoff level. IDA lending was discontinued
in FY80. Given the critical importance of agriculture (including transmigra-
tion) for employment, food security and exports, over one-third of Bank Group-
assisted projects have been in this sector. In addition, loans and credits
have been extended to virtually all other sectors of the economy, including
transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural development,
industrial development financing (including small-scale industry), power,
telecommunications, population and nutrition, and technical assistance.
18.       During Repelitas 1 (1969-74) and II (1974-79), and in line with the
objectives of these first two Five-Year Plans, a high proportion of Bank Group
lending was directed initially toward the rehabilitation and then the expan-
sion of infrastructure and production facilities. Special attention was also
given to meet the shortage of skilled manpower and technical assistance needed
for preinvestment studies and project execution. Repelita III (1979-84),
published in early 1979, stressed the need for continued high growth and
stability, but departed from previous plans by placing special emphasis on
more equitable income distribution and poverty alleviation. This focus, which
was fully in line with the conclusions of the basic economic report, required
greater attention to employment generation (particularly in the industrial
sector) and to improvements in basic public services. While Bank lending was
already consistent with these objectives, increased emphasis has been given to
these priorities. However, the adverse economic developments that occurred in
the latter half of the plan period and the measures taken to address them, led
to a reshaping of development objectives for Repelita IV (1984-89). These
emphasize restoring growth of incomes and employment while continuing finan-
cial prudence, promoting structural change toward a more diversified economy,
and maintaining efforts tc improve income distribution and alleviate poverty.
This shift in focus has underscored the need to follow through on reforms that
have already been initiated, seek increased efficiencies in the economy,
3/   Substantially unchanged from the President's Report on the Smallholder
Cattle Development Project (No. P-4155-IND), circulated under cover of
R85-306, dated October 3, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors
on October 22, 1985.



mobiLize domestic resources to finance needed investments and recurrent
expenditures, and foster a policy environment conducive to the achievement of
required changes.
19.      The Bank has geared its lending and economic work program to address
these needs. The approach is to continue to emphasize the ongoing dialogue on
economic policy that has been a cornerstone of the Bank's relationship with
the Government for many years, and to coordinate discussion of macroeconomic
issues with advice on institutional and policy reform in important sectors and
subsectors, coupled with lending operations and technical assistance that meet
priority needs and support institutional improvements in specific areas.
Emphasis in economic work is being given to trade and industrial issues,
development of the financial system, and pubLic resource mAnagement.  In the
lending program, agriculture continues to receive the most attention.
However, the program is broadly based, and includes increasing emphasis on
industrial development and education. Less emphasis is being given to power
and energy, where the Bank is concentrating on policies to diversify
Indonesia's energy base, rationalize pricing and improve sector planning. In
transportation the Bank is focussing on efficiency improvements in the
maritime sector and on improving the national network of highways and rural
roads. In urban development, water supply and population, Lending is being
directed more and more to developing innovative low-cost solutions, providing
for cost recovery and strengthening local institutions, in order to minimize
demands on the C-overnment budget and decentralize the responsibility for
addressing basic needs. In all, the Bank's lending program is intended to
contribute about 20X of Indonesia's external capital requirements during the
next three years and is expected to be an important catalyst in attracting
other funds. Where possible, we are seeking also to widen the impact of Bank
lending through technical assistance, as well as complementary investments and
coordinated policy dialogue with other donors. This is especially true in our
lending programs for power, urban development, water supply and
transportation.
20.      There ha2,been a notable improvement in the last few years in the
disbursement ratio_  from a low of 13Z in FY80 to over 17% in FY85.  The poor
FY80 ratio was in large part merely a result of the rapid increase in commit-
ments during the FY77-79 period when total Bank/IDA commitments to Indonesia
increased by 122% compared to a Bank-wide increase of 83%. However, it also
reflected implementation difficulties arising out of the Covernment's budge-
tary, procurement and payment procedures. The severe shortage of managerial
and technical manpower of course compounds the problem. A number of steps
have been taken by the Government and the Bank to address these issues.
Several special Bank missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems
and make recommendations for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures.
The Government and the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint
review procedures to identify general and project-specific problems and work
out corrective measures. In addition, procurement seminars were held in
4/ The ratio of actual disbursements during the fiscal year to the cumula-
tive undisbursed amount at the beginning of the fiscal year.



- 9 -
Jakarta in September 1979, November 1981 and May 1984. As a consequence of
these joint initiatives, the Government has taken measures to streamline some
of the complex budgetary and financial procedures affecting project implemen-
tation. The Bank is helping the Government in a special effort to identify
problems in the construction industry with a view to developing appropriate
remediaL actions and policies. Weaknesses in the domestic contracting indus-
try have been identified as one of the major causes of implementation problems
in Indonesia. In order to reduce initial project implementation difficulties,
many operations are now being presented for Board consideration at a later
stage in the project cycle. As a result of these efforts, improvements are
taking place. In addition, in order to ease the Government's resource con-
straints and maintain the pace of project implementation in priority areas,
steps were taken under the Special Assistance Program to accelerate disburse-
ments in 17 ongoing projects in the treecrops and irrigation sectors and one
project each in the energy and transport sectors. The combined effects of all
of these activities are reflected in the increase in disbursements from
US$206 million in FY79 to US$728 million in FY85. It is nevertheless impor-
tant that the Bank and the Government maintain their efforts.
PART III - HEALTH AND NUTRITION IN INDONESIA -1
Sector Background
21.       Despite considerable improvements during the last 20 years, the
overall health status of Indonesia's population rpmains far from satisfactory
and is inferior to that of comparable middle income countries. In 1983, life
expectancy at birth was 54 years, the crude death rate was 13 per thousand,
and the infant mortality and child death rates were about 101 per thousand
live births and 13 per thousand children aged 1-4 years, respectively. The
most vulnerable groups from a health standpoint are mothers and children below
five years of age, who together account for one-half of total mortality (about
one million deaths per annum). Indonesia's epidemiological profile has not
changed markedly during the last decade or so; the most prevalent causes of
overall morbidity and mortality continue to include infectious, parasitic and
gastro-intestinal diseases, most of which are preventable or treatable through
simple, low-cost therapy. In the circumstances, and considering the high
levels of maternal, infant and child mortality, improved maternal and child
health (MCH) services are an obvious priority.
22.       Although, based on the adjusted minimum daily requirement for
Indonesia, available calories are sufficient and protein is adequate, protein-
5/ A detailed treatment of population status, policies and sectoral develop-
ment issues in Indonesia is given in the President's Report on the Fourth
Population Project (No. P-4026-IND) circulated under cover of R85-104,
dated April 18, 1985, and approved by the Executive Directors on May 7,
1985 (Loan 2529-IND). Health indicators in this section are taken from
the World Development Report 1984.



- 10 -
calorie malnutrition (PCH) remains a serious problem and is a major underlying
contributor to Indonesia's still-high rate of infant mortality. This is
largely due to problems of distribution, both among and within families.
Current estimates indicate that 15X of the population or about 23 million
people, principally the urban poor, small landholders and the rural landless,
are malnourished and that, within families, women and children under five
years are most likely to receive insufficient calories and protein. Survey
data show that nationwide about nine million children aged 1-5 years, or about
302 of all preschoolers, suffer from moderate to severe PCM, and, that micro-
nutrient deficiencies, particularly vitamin A, iron and iodine deficiencies,
are widespread throughout the population.
23.       The Ministry of Health (MOH) is responsible for the formulation and
implementation of national health policy and for the overall administration,
coordination and management of the country's health (including nut ition)
services. It is headed by the Minister, responsible to the Presicent, and
consists of the Secretariat General, the Inspectorate General, and four
Directorates General (Community Health, Medical Care, Communicable Diseases
and Environmental Health, and Food and Drugs). At the provincial level, there
is in principle a dual management system for public health services, as is the
case in several other sectors, comprising: an MOH Provincial Officer, techni-
cally responsible to the Minister of Health, and a Province Health Officer,
administratively responsible to the Provincial Governor. In practice, one
official is both MOH Provincial Officer and Province Health Officer and is
responsible for overall coordination of all pubLic health services in the
province. A similar structure prevails at the district level, where the
district medical officer is responsible for coordination and implementation of
all health services at district, subdistrict and community/village level.
Service Delivery
24.       Indonesia's public health care delivery system consists of a network
of primary, secondary and tertiary facilities. However, it is the primary-
level system of community health centers, subcenters and mobile centers under
the technical responsibility of the Directorate General of Community Health
which is the principal source of modern health (including nutrition) services
for the country's 120 million rural-dwellers. Health centers provide basic
medical care, MCH services, family planning services, communicable disease
control (including immunizations), hygiene and sanitation, nutrition, commu-
nity health education, school health and dental treatment. Their staff of
about 8-9 trained personnel are also responsible for recording vital statis-
tics and health information reporting. In 1983/84, there were about 5,353
health centers throughout the country, serving an average population varying
from 8,000 to 35,000 per center, according to province. Below and linked to
health centers, health subcenters in the main villages provide basic MCH care,
including vaccination and health and nutrition education. Each subcenter, of
which there were 13,636 in 1983184, has a staff of 2-3 paramedicals, serving
an average population varying from 3,000 to 10,000. Finally, there were about
2,479 mobile health centers in 1983/84, each providing basic health care to
villages unserved by a static facility.



- 11 -
25.       The outreach to the community of this primary-level system of health
centers and subcenters has been an important governmental concern since the
mid-1970s, when lowering infant and child mortality, and, related to this,
improving family nutrition, began to acquire the level of political commitment
already accorded to fertility reduction and the family planning program. In
1974, the M0H Directorate General of Community Health (Directorate of Nutri-
tion), with assistance from the National Family Planning Coordinating Board
(NFPCB) and the Ministry of Agriculture, established a pilot village-level
family nutrition improvement program (UPGK), to improve nutrition and thereby
help reduce morbidity and mortality among its target groups, i.e., mothers and
young children. The pilot UPGK, which focused on community nutrition educa-
tion using child growth monitoring (weighing) as an entry point, was largely
successful, and by 1984 it had (with USAID and UNICEF assistance) been extend-
ed to over 30,000 villages in Java and Bali. The program's rapid expansion
was predicated on a strategy of attaching UPGK's core package of activities
onto the NFPCB's family planning program, which already operated village
contraceptive distribution centers (VCDCs) in about 48,000 villages nation-
wide. In addition to the UPGK, a second activity -- the village community
health program (PKMD) -- was started by the MOH in 1977, under which village
volunteers were expected to provide simple preventive and curative primary
health care services to their respective communities. To date, this program
has achieved only modest success; PKMD activities had been initiated in only
about 700 villages by early 1982.
26.       Qualitatively, the PKMD program was found to have had positive
results in some pilot villages, but a 1982 UNICEF-sponsored evaluation sug-
gested that its replicability and effective extension would require: (a) the
degree of political support and community participation generated by the
family planning program, and since 1979, by the UPGK; and (b) increased train-
ing and supervision by community health center staff, implying improved staff-
ing of these centers. The evaluation also noted that PKMD's effectiveness had
been inhibited by the fact that its activities were not well coordinated and,
to some extent, competed with the family planning program and UPGK. Although
far more positive about the program as whole, initial evaluations of the UPGK
also indicate that the program would be considerably strengthened by improved
training, supervision and guidance from health center staff, and, by better
coordination of UPGK activities with immunization and other community health
interventions, as well as family planning. The Government's policies and
operational strategies for strengthening community health and nutrition acti-
vities during Repelita IV (1984-89) reflect the findings of the PKMD and UPGK
evaluations and are described below (paras. 27-28) in some detail, as they
provide the overall framework for the project proposed.
Government Policies and Strategies
27.       The Government's main national public health goal for the Fourth
National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita IV, 1984-89) is to reduce infant
mortality by about 30X from its 1984 level of 95 per thousand to 70 per
thousand by 1988/89. This goal is a priority health sector objective in and
of itself, as one key indicator of the population's overall health status; it
is also a prerequisite for, and a necessary complement to, the equally
important national imperative of sustaining the decline in overall fertility



- 12 -
already underway. Against this background, the Repelita IV plan document
emphasizes the need for widespread access to and effective delivery of health
(including nutrition and family planning) services through: first,
strengthening the lowest leveL of the formal health system (i.e., health cen-
ters and subcenters); and second, improving the outreach of these centers and
strengthening community-level programs and activities. With regard to the
former, the Government's principal operational strategy is to expand the
number of primary health facilities in hitherto underserved areas and improve
their services and utilization, by developing additional paramedical manpower
for posts at the health center and subcenter level (partly with assistance
from the Bank under the rgeently approved Second Health (Manpower Development)
Project (Loan 2542-IND)]._ Concerning the latter (i.e., community heaLth
activities), the Government's main emphasis for Repelita IV and beyond is to
strengthen the coordination of five priority community-level programs -
namely, family planning, nutrition, immunization, diarrheal disease control,
and maternal and child health -- at integrated service delivery posts (pos
yandu), organized by the communities themselves. Given the relative simplic-
ity of the technologies associated with each of the above five programs and
the complementarities between their goals and activities, this coordinated
strategy, if properly implemented, is likely to have significant positive
implications for program effectiveness in the longer term. Moreover, the
strategy would allow for increased efficiency, e.g., the number of staff
required both at the integrated service posts as well as for supervision and
training would be less than for five separate programs. Thus, while the
Government intends to further extend and strengthen both family planning and
nutrition activities in currently underserved areas, it also plans to utilize
their respective institutional infrastructures and presence (i.e., existing
community VCDCs, family planning acceptor groups and child weighing posts) in
the development of the integrated service delivery posts.
28.       As far as nutrition-specific policies, programs and activities are
concerned, the Government's operational priorities for Repelita IV are broadly
threefold: to extend UPGK program coverage from about 31,000 villages at pre-
sent, to all Indonesia's 65,000 villages by 1988/89, if possible; to intensify
and broaden nutrition surveillance activities initiated during Repelita III
and thereby improve the quality of health and nutrition policy formulation,
sectoral planning, and program development and evaluation; and, related to
both, to increase the output and availability of qualified nutrition manpower
at the paramedical and graduate levels. The Government, with UNICEF assis-
tance, has already committed very substantial resources to the UPGK program
for Repelita IV and little or no further external aid is required in the
immediate future. However, both nutrition surveillance and nutrition manpower
development require external financial and technical assistance to complement
the limited Government resources available.
6/ Further details of the Government's plans and investment priorities for
developing heaLth and nutrition manpower are available in the President's
Report on the Second Health (Manpower Development) Project (No. P-4040-
IND), circulated under cover of R85-117, dated April 25, 1985, and
approved by the Executive Directors on May 14, 1985.



- 13 -
Experience with Past Bank Lending and Assistance Strategy
29.       Bank Group assLstance to Indonesia for population, health and nutri-
tion (PEN) to date totals US$197.7 million, comprising one credit and three
loans for population amounting to US$118.7 million, two loans for health
amounting to US$66 million, and a single US$13 million loan for nutrition.
Four of these projects have been satisfactorily completed; two loans, for the
Fourth Population Project (Loan 2529-IND) and the Second Health (Manpower
Development) Project (Loan 2542-IND) were approved in May 1985 (the first has
just been declared effective, and the second is expected to be declared
effective shortly); and one loan,for Provincial Health (Loan 2235-IND),
is in its second full year of implementation and, compared with appraisal
estimates, about nine months behind schedule, mainly due to delays in its
civil works components. The Bank's overall experience with PHN projects in
Indonesia so far has been satisfactory, particularly in terms of achieving
their program development and institution-building objectives. A completion
report for the first Nutrition Development Project (Loan 1373-IND) was
submitted to the Operations Evaluation Department in July 1985. Its principal
conclusions were: (L) that the base for nutrition-related activities in
Indonesia was far better today than at project inception; (ii) that the
project's major objectives had been largely met; and (iii) that the
Government's proposals for follow-up activities to further strengthen its
national nutrition efforts deserved serious consideration by aid agencies.
The explicit rationale for Bank assistance for the proposed project is thus to
follow up and build upon the policy, program and institutional development
initiatives started by the Government, partly with assistance under the first
project. This second project also takes into account, and will indeed comple-
ment, existing and proposed UNICEF, USAID and WHO financial and technical
assistance to Indonesia for health and nutrition.
30.       In a broader context, the Bank's sectoral assistance strategy in
Indonesia is to assist Covernment efforts to improve coordination between its
population, health and nutrition subsectors and institutions, in support of
the country's ambitious fertility and infant and child mortality reduction
goals. Such improved coordination is necessary in policy and program develop-
ment terms because of the interdependence of efforts to reduce fertility, mor-
tality and morbidity. The implications of this strategy for Bank operations
in the immediate future include: sustained assistance for population and
family planning per se through the NFPCB and the Ministry of Population and
Environment (e.g., the recently approved Fourth Population Project); and,
because of their relative weakness and, until recently, perceived lack of
priority, substantially increased assistance for health and nutrition, mainly
through the various MOH institutions concerned. The recently approved Second
Health (Manpower Development) Project and the proposed project together
comprise the second element of this coordinated PHN strategy, and are intended
to assist the Covernment in strengthening primary health and nutrition
services - both the formal system and community-based programs. In addition,
a second provincial health project is being identified and prepared for
possible Bank lending.



- 14 -
PART rv - THE PROJECT
31.       In 1984, upon completion of the Nutrition Development Project
(Loan 1373-IND), the Government submitted to the Bank three proposals based on
its strategy for Repelita IV (paras. 27-28 above), together comprising a
Second Nutrition and Community Health Project, for strengthening coordination
and management of community heaLth, developing nutrition surveillance, and
improving nutrition manpower development. A Bank preparation mission visited
Indonesia in October 1984 to review and assist in project preparation and a
Bank-financed consultant subsequently provided intermittent assistance through
early 1985. The project was appraised in March 1985. The Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 5840-IND) is being distributed separately. Negotiations were held
in Washington from October 21-24, 1985 with the Indonesian delegation led by
Mr. Suyono Yahya, Director General of Community Health, MOH. Supplementary
project data are provided in Annex III.
Project Objectives
32.       The project's objective is to increase the effectiveness and
efficiency of the Government's nutrition and community health programs by:
(a) strengthening the coordination and management of five key community health
programs aimed at significantly reducing infant, child and maternal mortality
in eleven priority provinces, including direct operational support to these
five programs individually; (b) further developing Indonesia's nutrition
surveillance capability in four areas (timely warning and intervention,
nutrition monitoring and assessment, nutrition policy and program studies, and
nutrition information); and (c) strengthening nutrition manpower development
at the paramedical and graduate levels. These separate but inter-related
objectives would be accomplished by the project inputs described in paras.
33-46 below.
Project Description
Strengthening Coordination and Management of Community Health (US$21.0
million, excluding taxes and contingencies)
33.       From the poLicy and overall sectoral planning point of view, the
coordinated approach to community health is neither new, nor, in theory,
particularly difficult to contemplate. In practice, however, coordinated
service delivery will be no easier to implement in Indonesia than elsewhere,
and should therefore be regarded as a gradual, long-term process.  I  the
circumstances, the Government has identified 11 priority provinces 7/ in which
to focus its main effort and resources for implementing coordinated delivery
of the five key community health programs during the current Repelita IV. In
these provinces, therefore, the HOH Directorate of Comnunity Health has begun
the process of encouraging communities to establish common service delivery
7/   East, Central and West Java, DKI Jakarta, North, South and West Sumatra,
East and West Nusa Tenggara, Lampung and South Sulawesi, which together
include 80% of Indonesia's population.



- 15 -
posts, using UPGK's child weighing posts and family planning VCDCs as entry
points. The five key programs' activities are being conducted by village
volunteers who are responsible to the Ministry of Interior's vilLage self-
reliance boards (LKMDs), with technical assistance and support of trained
family planning, health and nutrition staff from NFPCB's subdistrict offices
and the MOH's health centers and subcenters. Thus, this process of coordin-
ated community health activities through common service delivery posts is
already underway in some areas, and the objective of this component would be
to support the process through the three MOH institutions concerned with
community participation; planning, management and supervision; and commu-
nications. In addition, the project would provide support for improved
management (including monitoring and evaluation) by the Directorate-General of
Community Health, and also for additional supplies that may be needed for any
or all of the five programs, suppLementing resources already committed by
UNICEF and other donors.
34.       Community Participation.  The role of the MOH's recently established
Directorate of Community Participation is to promote and support community
involvement and participation in activities related to the basic health of
mothers and children. To this end, the Directorate will work in close colla-
boration with the LKMDs and other village-level institutions. The project
would thus support two kinds of activities in about 16,500 villages in 11
provinces: training and orientation of village Leaders in the organization of
common service delivery posts and in the purposes of the five key community
health programs; and training of village volunteers in organization and
motivation and in the basic technical content and activities of the five
programs. In addition, the project would assist in the strengthening of the
Directorate of Community Participation through provision of fellowships,
vehicles, travel and subsistence costs (required for program implementation
and supervision), honoraria and technical assistance.
35.       Planning, Management and Supervision.  One necessary precondition
for the effective coordination of village-level service delivery is the syste-
matic planning of activities, based on a reliable assessment of the commu-
nity's overall health status, problems and perceived needs. Such community
health assessments and the definition of locally relevant health plans need to
be undertaken at the lowest possible level of the health system, i.e. the
community health center, and then aggregated at the district and provincial
levels, to facilitate rational resource allocation. This process of communit
health assessment and planning, termed "microplanning", has already been tried
in selected districts, and the  OH is proceeding with its introduction in
eight of the 11 priority provinces. To complete the introduction of the
"microplanning" process in the three remaining priority provinces (No:th and
South Sumatra, and Lampung), the project would provide support to the
Directorate of Comnmunity Health Centers, for staff orientation and training
(including fellowships), implementation of community health assessments and
plans, and planning workshops in 31 districts, covering about 1,200 sub-
district community health centers or subcenters. An evaluation of "microplan-
ning" experience to date would also be undertaken as the basis for targetting
future incremental resource inputs. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that this evaluation would be undertaken and completed by September
30, 1986 and the results of such evaluation would be furnished to the Bank for
comm ents.



- 16 -
36.       As indicated earlier, the process of coordinated service delivery
itself will need to be encouraged and supported by (i) increased poLitical
commitment; and (ii) strengthened supervision, at the province, district and
subdistrict and community levels. To help generate the requisite commitment
the project wouLd provide funds to the Directorate of Community Health Centers
to conduct training meetings for community leaders at the national,
provincial, district and sub-district levels to increase their awareness and
knowledge of the coordinated programs. To strengthen field supervision and
monitoring of the coordinated programs, the project would provide support for
development of supervision manuals and provide travel and subsistence funds
for supervision activities in the 11 priority provinces. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that: supervision guidelines/manuals acceptable to
the Bank would be available by September 30, 1986; and that annual supervision
schedules acceptable to the Bank would be prepared by March 31 each year and
supervision would thereafter be implemented taking into account the Bank's
comments. In addition, assurances were obtained that an index of reporting/
monitoring indicators acceptable to the Bank for the five community health
services, based on data already being collected, would be developed by
September 30, 1986.
37.       Communications. Motivating collaborative efforts by officials and
staff of different institutions (MOH and NFPCB) and of different departments
and programs within the same institution (Directorates of Community Health and
Cotmounicable Disease Control) requires, among other things, that the rationale
for and the overall benefits of such collaboration be clearly understood and
accepted by service prcviders at all levels. Moreover, the (largely unedu-
cated) target population in the community itself needs to understand better
the inter-relationships between specific health service interventions and
family health knowledge, behavior and practices. This involves an innovative
and culturally acceptable health education and communications support
strategy. The responsibility for these activities in the MOH lies with the
Center for Community Health Education and the project would provide suppore to
this Center for two types of activities: a nationwide promotional campaign
relating the significance of the five key community health programs to the
goal of reducing infant and child mortality; and, the development of communi-
cations materials and messages for the individual programs in support of their
community activities. In addition, the project would support the institu-
tional development of the recently established Center, through provision of
fellowships, technical assistance, vehicles and funds for annual planning
workshops.
38.       Community Health Sec-etariat.  In order to manage the community
health component of the project, as well as coordinate the activities of the
other two components (i.e., nutrition surveilLence and manpower development),
the project would provide support for a total of ten incremental staff
required for the Office of the Secretariat of the Directorate General of Com-
munity Health. The appointment of these ten additional staff would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. In addition to their overall
managerial and supervisory responsibilities, these additional staff would
direct the carrying out of two evaluations of the coordinated community health
programs: a baseline survey to assess the current status and coverage of the
five programs in the 11 provinces; and, a mid-project evaluation of progress,



- 17 -
the results of which would be available for planning for Repelita V,
commencing April 1, 1989. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
these two evaluations would be undertaken and completed by October 1, 1986 and
by April 30, 1988, respectively. Finally, to strengthen its longer-term
managerial capacity, the project would provide the Secretariat with: techni-
cal assistance in planning and management; office equipment and vehicles; and
funds for supervision, monitoring, and per diem and travel costs for meetings.
39.       Programs Operations Support Funds.  Although the family planning and
UPGK programs receive substantial government and external financial assi-
stance, the maternal and child health, immunization and diarrheal disease con-
trol programs have so far not attracted significant resources, owing partly to
their still limited coverage and absorptive capacity. If, as planned, the 20
ordinated approach to community health generates increasing demand for more
intensive or extensive activities in these three areas, it is possible that
the development of these programs could be constrained by lack of resources.
To obviate this eventuality and because it is impossible to forecast precisely
their actual needs over a five-year period of potentially rapid progress, the
project would provide funds in the amount of US$5 million for program supplies
(equipment, drugs, vaccines, consumable materials, etc.) that may be needed
for service delivery activities at the community health center or below.
During negotiations it was agreed that it would be a condition of disbursement
that no withdrawals would be made in respect of these funds until the
Government has submitted recommendations satisfaccory tc the Bank for their
use. Such recommendations would include: (a) requirements for supplies for
individual community health programs; (b) availability of domestic and other
external financial support for these programs; and (c) proposed use of funds
covering, to the extent possible, requirements for two-year periods.
Developing Nutrition Surveillance (US$10.3 million, excluding taxes and
contingencies)
40.       As a result of growing national concerns about malnutrition and its
link to infant and child mortality, nutrition surveillance was started in
Indonesia in the late seventies and developed along two lines. First, the
analysis of household data collected by the Central Bureau of Statistics, and
second, the design of a pilot timely warning and intervention system (TWIS) in
two districts of Lombok and Central Java which was designed to avert or miti-
gate the worst consequences of short-term food deficits. In early 1984, a
national food and nutrition surveillance seminar was held t3 review the pro-
gress and results of the pilot TWIS and to consider how additional nutrition
surveillance activities should be further developed during Repelita IV. The
seminar concluded that: (a) the TWIS should be replicated and introduced in
phases in selected districts in up to 11 provinces; (b) the scope of
Indonesia's nutrition surveillance activities should be gradually broadened to
include monitoring and assessment activities, policy and program studies, and
data collection and information system, in support of national and provincial
health and nutrition planning and program evaluation (e.g., UPCK); and (c) the
MOH's Directorate of Nutrition should be the principal coordinating agency for
food and nutrition surveillance in Indonesia. Against this background, the
Directorate of Nutrition set up a task force in mid-1984 to prepare a master
development plan for nutrition surveillance for Repelita IV and beyond and



- 18 -
requested Bank assistance under the proposed project in implementing (a) and
(b) above.
41.       Timely Warning and Intervention.  During Repelita IV, it is planned
to extend the pilot TWIS developed in Lombok to 37 districts in 11 provinces
most vulnerable to periodic food consumption problems and nutrition emergen-
cies. The 37 districts would be selected following feasibility studies at the
province level, which would also identify staffing and the other inputs
required in the selected districts, and provide the basis for provincial TWIS
planning and development workshops. In addition, the national TWIS support
unit and province-level TWIS teams would be strengthened to enable them to
support the district-Level TWIS. The project would therefore provide support
in the form of consultancies, training, equipment, vehicles and materials,
travel and subsistence costs and honoraria for the above purposes. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that annual TWIS development plans
would be prepared by Hay 31, 1986 and by March 31 each year thereafter for
review by the Bank.
42.       Nutrition Monitoring and Assessment.  Despite increasing knowledge
about the causes and consequences of malnutrition, Indonesia's data base
remains inadequate. Thus, an important element of the Government's strategy
for broadening the scope of nutrition surveillance acti-vities is the syste-
matic monitoring and assessment of nutritional status, programs and activi-
ties. To this end, the project would provide support (in the form of techni-
cal assistance, training, equipment, vehicles and materials, travel and sub-
sistence costs and honoraria) for five operational research projects/surveys
in the following areas: (a) PCM, mortality and UPCK program participation;
(b) anthropometric measurement of preschool-aged children; (c) goiter preva-
lence surveys; WdI prevalence of vitamin A deficiency among preschoolers; and
(e) evaluation of the UPGK program's growth monitoring system. The scope,
terms of reference and implementation schedule for the above activities were
discussed and agreed during negotiations.
43.       Nutrition Policy and Program Studies.  In addition to the monitoring
and assessment activities outlined in the preceding paragraph, special poliLy-
based studies and analyses are required from time to time, to support improved
national and local policy formulation and program development. The project
would therefore provide support for such studies in four broad areas: (a) the
formulation of food and nutrition policies and plans for Repelita V; (b) an
in-depth independent impact evaluaCion of the UPGK program; (c) a program of
discrete, issue-oriented studies required for development planning; and
(d) studies in village food technology. In addition, a project allocation of
US$100,000 would be provided fzr unidentified small-scale studies that would
he defined and agreed during project implementation. Individual studies and
research projects would be implemeated by appropriately qualified consultants
or agencies as decided by a Steering Committee, chaired by the Director
General of Community Health. The establishment of this Steering Committee
would be a condition of loan effectiveness. Draft outline terms of reference
for the .tudies specified above were discussed and agreed during loan
negotiations. In addition, assurances were obtained that annual plans for
policy studies would be prepared by May 31, 1986 and by March 31 each year
thereafter for review by the Bank.



- 19 -
44.       Nutrition Information.  The effectiveness and potential impact of
the monitoring and assessment and policy and program studies to be undertaken
above wouLd be Limited unless chey can be presented and disseminated in a non-
technical manner. Moreover, given Indonesia's size and diversity, it is
important that the results of on-going policy and research work be available
promptly and circulated to appropriate government agencies and universities
throughout the country. Accordingly, the project would provide support for
the development of a nutrition information unit, in the Directorate of Nutri-
tion. This support would consist of funds for training, technical assistance,
staff allowances, equipment and vehicles, travel and subsistence costs and
acquisition and reproduction of nutrition books and periodicals. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Nutrition Information Unit
would commence its activities by May 31, 1986 and thereafter be maintained
with appropriate staffing and budgetary resources.
Improving Nutrition Manpower Development (US$13.7 million, excluding taxes and
contingencies)
45.       Indonesia's national commitment to nutrition, in general, and its
increasing number of nutrition and nutrition-related activities and programs,
in particular, has created a growing demand for additional diploma (para-
medicaL) and graduate manpower with professional skills, training and
experience in nutrition. At present, however, there are only four fully func-
tioning nucrition manpower training institutions in the country (two nutrition
academias, one nutrition assistant school, and the Department of Comunity
Nutrition and FamiLy Resources (CMSK) at the Institute of Agriculture, Bogor
(IPB)). Thus, to help meet the gap between suppLy and demand, the MOB plans
during Repelita IV, to developing 4 new nutrition academies and 11 new assist-
ant nutritionist schools in an effort to increase the number of nuLrition
paramedicals from about 1.100 to about 6,100. With regard to university
graduate level manpower, the Institute of Agriculture, Bogor (IPB), with the
approval of the Ministry of Education, plans to introduce a new Ph.D program,
in addition to its existing small bachelor's and master's degree programs.
These proposed investments in paramedical and university-level nutrition
manpower education and training constitute the framework for the present
component of tne project.
46.       Nutrition Manpower Development.  To alleviate the growing shortage
of paramedical nutrition manpower, the project would provide support for the
development of 8 of the 15 paramedical institutions sanctioned under
Repelita IV (two academies and six schools) in Aceh, Bali, East, Central and
West Java, North and Southeast Sulawesi and West Nusa Tenggara. The
Government and the Bank through the Second Health (Manpower Development)
Project (Loan 2542-IND) are financing the other seven paramedical institu-
tions. Funds would be provided for physical development (civil works, equip-
ment, furniture and vehicles) and for books and teaching aids and materials.
In addition, to improve educational quality of paramedical nutrition institu-
tions, the project would provide support for staff training, technical work-
shops and improved supervision. The project would also assist IPB to streng-
then existing graduate degree programs, develop a nutrition course for staff
of the Ministry of Agriculture, and establish a doctoral program in nutrition.
Specifically, it would provide funds for the physical development of improved



- 20 -
and expanded administrative, classroom and laboratory space (civil works,
equipment. furniture and teaching aids and materials) for IPB's existing
bachelor's, master's and proposed doctoral degree programs in nutrition; and
computing facilities, training and technical assistance required for the
establishment of a food and nutrition policy analysis unit at IPB.
Project Costs and Financing
47.       The project's estimated total cost is Rp. 63.5 billion or
US$57.7 million equivalent, inclusive of value-added taxes on civil works and
equipment of US$1.5 million.  Total project cost net of taxes is, therefore,
Rp. 61.8 billion or US$56.2 million equivalent. Its foreign exchange
component is an estimated US$14.7 million, or 26Z of the total. The project's
base costs amounting to US$45 million refer to October 1985 prices. Physical
contingencies (US$1.2 million) represent 20Z of civil works and 3% of total
base costs. Price contingencies (US$10 million), equivalent to 22% of total
base costs, are calculated on base costs plus physical contingencies and a
five-year implementation period, during which the annuaL rates of increase are
assumed to be as follows: local - 8% for 1985-90; and foreign - 5% for 1985;
7.5Z for 1986; and 8% for subsequent years. Construction costs are the
product of agreed space standards and unit prices provided by the Government
for the various types of buildings required. Equipment and furniture costs
are based on standard lists provided by the Government authorities
concerned. These costs were reviewed during appraisal and found to be satis-
factory. Technical assistance costs for local consultants include salaries
and subsistence, and for foreign consultants include salaries, subsistence,
insurance and airfares. Costs for overseas fellowships inclusive of
international travel have been estimated at about US$19,200 per staff year and
for local fellowships at an average cost of about US$3,000 per staff year,
reflecting current tuition and board and lodging costs.
48.       The proposed US$33.4 million Bank loan would finance 60% of total
project costs, net of the cost of vehicles purchased by the Government under
reserved procurement and taxes and duties. The loan would thus cover US$14.3
million, or 97Z, of the foreign exchange cost and US$19.1 million, or about
45Z, of local costs. The balance of total project costs of US$24.3 million
equivalent, would be financed by the Government from its annual development
budget.
Procurement 8/
49.       Project procurement arrangements are summarized below.
8/ All costs cited in paras. 49-51 are net of duties and taxes.



- 21 -
PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(USS million)
Total Cost
Procurement Method            (including
Expenditure Category           ICB      LCB    Other/b   N.A.  contingencies)/a
Land                         -        -       -         1.3         1.3
C- )    C-_)     {-)       (-)          (-)
Civil Works                 2.1      6.6      -          -          8.7
(2.1)   (4.4)    (-)        C-)         (6.5)
Furniture, Equipment,       1.8      3.1     0.9        1.6         7.4
Vehicles, Materials       (1.8)   (1.5)    ()          C-)        (3.3)
Technical Assistance         -        -      7.2         -          7.2
and Fellowships            (-)      (-)    (7.2)       (-)        (7.2)
Group Training Activities   -         -       -        13.4         13.4
C-)     (-)     (-)       (9.6)       (9.6)
Honoraria, Travel,           -        -       -        10.6         10.6
Per Diems                  (-)      C-)     (-)       (-)          (-)
Studies                      -        -       -         1.8         1.8
Operations Support Funds    -         -      5.0         -          5.0
(-)     (-)    (5.0)       (-)        (5.0)
Recurrent Costs              -        -       -        0.8          0.8
Totals                      3.9      9.7    13.1       29.5         56.2
(3.9)   (5.9)  (12.2)    (11.4)        (33.4)
/a   Net of duties and taxes.
/b   Other means of procurement include: reserved procurement (vehicles);
prudent shopping (off-the-shelf materials); Bank guidelines (technical
assistance), standard Government procedures (fellowships); and UNICEF
procurement (operations support funds).
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan.



- 22 -
50.       One major civil works contract for the facility at IPB, amounting to
about US$2.1 million would be awarded following International Competitive
Bidding (ICB) procedures, in accordance with Bank guidelines. The remaining
eight smaller civil works contracts for two nutrition academies and six
assistant nutritionists' schools totalling about US$6.6 million are too small
(averaging US$0.8 milLion each) and geographically dispersed (in eight
different provinces) to attract foreign bidders and would thus be awarded
following Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Equipment, furniture, vehicles and materials would be procured as follows:
about US$3.1 million or 42%, consisting of furniture and standard equipment
items manufactured locally in Indonesia at competitive prices, would be
procured using LCB procedures under which both local and foreign suppliers
represented in Indonesia would be eligible to bid; remaining specialized
items, valued at US$1.8 million, would be grouped to the extent practicable
into bid packages estimated to cost US$100,000 or more, and awarded following
ICB procedures and in accordance with Bank guidelines. Off-the-shelf items of
equipment and materials not exceeding US$30,000 per package, may, up to an
aggregate total of US$0.3 million, be purchased through prudent shopping on
the basis of three competitive price quotations. Vehicles valued at
US$0.6 million in total would be obtained under reserved procurement, in
accordance with government policy which prohibits importation of vehicles.
During negotiations, assurances were obtained that the government would
finance project vehicles and procure them under a schedule agreed with the
Bank. Selection of foreign and local consultants required for technical
assistance services would be carried out in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Overseas and in-country fellowships would be arranged by the project units
concerned, with assistance from the Overseas Training Office within the State
Ministry for Administrative Reform, in accordance with standard government
policies and procedures. Equipment, supplies and consiumable materials
required for the five community health programs and eligible for financing
from the program operations support fund would, to the extent possible, be
obtained through UNICEF in accordance with UNICEF international procurement
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
51.       Prior Bank review would be required for all ICB contracts, all LCB
civil works contracts exceeding US$0.5 million equivalent, and all remaining
contracts exceeding US$O.l million. Other contracts would be subject to
selective post-award reviews during project supervision.
Disbursements
52.       The proposed US$33.4 million loan would be disbursed over a period
of five and three-quarters years through December 31, 1991, nine months after
the estimated project completion date.  In order to ensure a prompt start to
civil works and degree training at IPB, expenditures incurred after April 1,
1985 and before loan signing on site surveys, draft tender document
preparation and fellowships would be eligible for retroactive financing up to
US$150,000 equivalent. Disbursements would be made against the following
categories of project expenditares: (a) 75% of total expenditures on civil
works; (b) 100l of the foreign expenditures on equipment, furniture, books and
materials supplied by suppliers outside Indonesia, 95Z of the ex-factory costs
for such equipment, furniture and materials procured locally or 65Z of local



- 23 -
expenditures on other items procured locaLly; (c) 100L of total expenditures
on consultants' services, fellowships, studies and items procured through
UNICEF under the program operations support fund; and (d) 70Z of total
expenditures on training.  For group training activities, disbursements would
be against statements of expenditure based on agreed unit costs and verified
by the project executing agencies. Disbursements for studies would also be
against statements of expenditure. Supporting documentation would be recained
by the executing agencies and made available for review as requested by Bank
supervision missions.
Project Organization and Management
53.       The project's overall organization and management would adhere as
far as possible to existing structures and patterns within the individual
implementing units concerned. The MOH Directorate General of Community Health
would be responsible for overall project coordination, with individual project
implementing departments/units being responsible for specific project
components, as follows:
Directorate General of Community Health        Community Health
Directorate of Nutrition                      Nutrition Surveillance
Center for Education and Training of           Nutrition Manpower (para-
Health Personnel (PUSDIKLAT)                     medical)
Department of Community Health and             Nutrition Manpower
Family Resources (GMSK), IPB                     (graduate)
Under the overall guidance of the Directorate General of Community Health,
each of the above departments/units would be responsible for carrying out the
project activities within their purview, including the procurement of civil
works, goods and services, project finances (including counterpart funding and
loan reimbursements) and project monitoring and progress reporting.
54.       The project would be directed by the Director General of Community
Health of MOH who would also act as Project Officer. To ensure appropriate
intra- and inter-ministerial coordination, the Government would establish a
Project Steering Committee, chaired by the Director General of Community
Health, MOH, consisting of: the Secretary General, MOH; the Director General
of Communicable Disease Control, MOH; the Deputy Chairman for Programs
Operation, NFPCB; the Deputy Chairman for Social and Cultural Affairs,
BAPPENAS; the Vice Rector, IPB; the Director General of Higher Education,
Ministry of Education; and the Director General of International Monetary
Affairs, Ministry of Finance. The Project Steering Committee would meet
quarterly to review overall project progress, approve plans and budgets for
all p-oject components, and resoLve any issues affecting project goals and
implementation. The establishment of this Project Steering Committee would be
a condition of loan effectiveness. Project implementation officers would be
designated by each of the departments or units noted in para. 54 above, who
would be assisted by teams of fuLl- and part-time staff responsible for the
administrative and technical aspects of project/component activities and



- 24 -
coordination. In this connection, the Secretariat of the Office of the
Directorate General of Community Health would be strengthened by the
assignment of at least ten full-time staff, who would coordinate and manage
all activities relating to the community health component specifically and
liaise with their counterpart teams in other departments/units responsible for
the nutrition surveillance and nutrition manpower development components. In
addition, the local and foreign technical assistance services included in the
project would assist all three component implementation teams and thus
strengthen the project's overall management.
Project Benefits and Risks
55.       The principal direct benefits of the project would be threefold.
First, the effectiveness and efficiency of the five key community health
programs would be enhanced through strengthened planning and resource alloca-
tion at the national, provincial and district levels; improved community
health education and communications support; and systematic monitoring, eval-
uation and supervision, particularly at the provincial and district levels.
Second, the scope of Indonesia's nutrition surveillance activities would be
significantly broadened; specifically, its ability to predict and influence
changes in food availability, food consumption and nutritional status among
the population most at risk would be institutionalized in 37 districts in
11 provinces; and, through nutrition monitoring and evaluation, policy
studies, and information activities, its health and nutrition policy formula-
tion and planning capability would be further strengthened. Third, the
country's stock of trained nutrition manpower would be increased, leading to
more effective management and implementation of community health and nutrition
programs and a broader human resource base for national policy planning and
research. Moreover, as the community health and nutrition activities to be
strengthened by the project would be targeted mainly to women and young
children in Indonesia's villages, the project can be expected to have signif-
icant implications for improving social welfare in the country's relatively
poor rural areas.
56.       The project's main risk relates to the community health component,
namely that the desired coordination of the five key community health programs
may not be fully achieved, or be substantially delayed. This risk is unavoid-
able in an integrated approach of this nature, which must be viewed as a
gradual, long-term process. To minimize the risk, however, the proposed pro-
ject places considerable emphasis on strengthening the planning, managerial
and monitoring capacity of the key MOH units concerned with implementation of
the program, particularly the Secretariat of the Office of the Directorate
General of Community Health, which would play a critical role in coordinating
program activities. Moreover, the Government's commitment to the policy and
process is clear, as is its awareness of the potential problems involved. In
the circumstances, the risk is acceptable and the provision of substantial
technical assistance, as well as an above-average Bank project supervision and
implementation assistance effort planned, should minimize the risk. An
initial project implementation or "launch" workshop has been planned to ensure
that the main individuals concerned with project implementation become
thoroughly acquainted with project scope and Government and Bank procedures
for projects of this sort.



- 25 -
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
57.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank and recomend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed Loan.
A.W. Clausen
President
Attachments
November 1, 1985
Washington, D.C.



- 26-                                    AMNEX I
Page 1 of 6 pages
i-ctk       vva&  Zc u&             ASIA  PACIC             LA. ANUICA, CAR
t& CUSom uq. no
TOM.                              1919.3      1913        191193.
AIIC LXL                           296.5       307.1       315.5
m  IRC      L                           ..          ..        30.0            G1l.1                      1375.9
CRiLon  OF OIL UOVALUIT)            "J          96.0       L91.0             566J1                     93.A
PU11AZZN  -M VITL SlfiMMCl
POWMATION,AI-UAR C2.008.13     9660.0   116201.0    15549.0
UMMAN POUATXD CS OF TOTAL)          14.6        17.1        26.1              35.9                      47.7
POPULAT!0 PRO3SCUIOU
P     OIAuz   XN TM  2000 (M)                           212.0
STATIUI    POILATION (NML)                               3680A
POPULATIO Ism1311                                           .
Pm SQ.   .                        69.3        60.        81.1              366.9                      48.0
ru SQ.  . Ax. LAND               3193        378.6       483.              1591.2                     91.1
POPULATION ACE hIUCIUR CZ)
0-14 no                          60.7        66.0         0.4              38.2                      38.5
15-4 To                           36.2        53.A        55.8              57.7                      57.1
65 SANDARM                         3.0         2.5         3.3               3.5                       4.2
POPULATION 0311 RAZZ CZ)
ZOTA                               2.1         2.0        2.2                23                        2.6
5URAN                              3.7         3.6        *3                 6.1                       3.6
CamDIC K130 RATS (CPU  M )          44.2        41.0       34.0               30.1                      30.9
CUE  2112 RATE (PU T3')             22.9        17.6        12.3               9.6                       6.0
-   REPROUCTION RATE                 2.7         2.7        2.1                1.9                       2.0
FANrLT PLAICI
ACEt0mS. ANL(2         )           ..  181.1            3051.0 /.
USEs CSor K 1 WOR)                 ..          ..         5D.0              56.                       653
Xur OF FoOD PROD. m CAPIxT
(L169-71-100)                       93.0       102.0       123.              1246.                     109.6
PER CAPXTA, sUPPL O
CALORES CZ 0F 1Iq012mN )          79.0        92.0       112.0             115.7                     113.2
PoTS  (calm  PE DAY)              36.0        61.0       53.0               60.3                      49.6
o0  WiXi ANIAL AND PULSE          60          6.0         7.0 Id           16.1                      36.2
CIM LD (S 1-4) DEAXR AM             21.9        18.1        13.0               7.2                       4.B
Li nuzcr. AX DIM  CUM)              41.2        47.0       53.5               60.6                      66.8
INANT HML!. RATE CPUr 1 s.0)       150.0       121.0      101.0               64.9                      59.7
ACCESS TO SAPE AM1 (Vop)
TOTAL                              ..          3.0        23.0              46.0                      653
RAN                                ..         10.0       60.0               57.6                      76.5
RURAL                              ..          1.0        16.0              37.1                      66.2
ACCESS TO EXCTA DISPOSA
CZ OP POPULATESS)
TOTAL                              ..         15.0        23.0              50.1                      563
URAN                               ..         19.0        20.0              52.9                      73.6
RRAL                               ..         16.0       26.0               44.7                      25.5
POPULATION P  PUTSECAN           66780.0    26510.0    11530.0 /a           7751.7                    1909.7
POP. PER HOUSING P11W             6510.0 If  7680.0      2300.0 T           2646.S                     80.2
POP. PE HOSPITAL MM
TOTAL                           1360.0      1650.0      1720. /           1112.1                     362.0                        V
URBAN                            250.0         ..        700.0             651 .4                    422.0
RU2AL                              ..          ..       3160.0            2596.9                    2716.7
ADIISSOIIS PER HOSPtIAL             ..          ..          ..                1.1                      27.5
AVERAWE SIZE OFHOSOl
TOTAL                              6.6         6..
UIIAN                              *.9         5.3
RAL                                *.3         1.7
AVEXACE NO. OF PELSoISIhoo
TOTAL                              ..          1.5
DRBAN                              ..          1.6
RURAL                              ..          1.5
PEtcaTArE or DwZuLIS 11Tm EZC.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URM                                ..           .
mRT,.R.                                                    . ..            ..



ANNEX I
- 27 -                                         Page 2 of 6 pages
IDONCSXA              - SOCAL INDICATOt DAT 
INDONESIA                          REFEENC CPUs (WET  AVEAG 
HOST                    (ImOST ECENT ESTImAT) lb
7UDCUT          MIDDLC NDMC      X      iI  NC
196sfi     i970k ESTDIA7Uk        ASUI * PACIC           LAT. ANCRICA & CAR
ADJUSTED ENOLUEN RATIOS
PRIa:  TOTL                     71.0       77.0       100.0             100.7                   106.7
IALE                  86.0       83.0       106.0             104.4                   106.5
FENALE                56.0       71.0       94.0              97.2                    104.
SWCONDiX: TOL                    6.0        15.0       33.0              47.8                     4.2
llLZ                  10.0       20.0       38.0              50.6                     42.7
FEN4ULE                3.0       10.0       27.0              44.6                     44.9
VOCATIONAL (C OF SECODART)        20.4       22.1        13.9             16.                      13.3
PUPTl-TEACIER RATIO
PRI!l                           39.0       29.0        29.0              30.4                    29.9
SWONDT                          14.0        13.0       16.0              22.2                    16.7
PASSENXE; CARS/TNOUSAID POP        1.1        2.1        4.4 /e            10.1                    46.0
RADXO REIVERSITN00SAND POP         7.2       21.9       131.2             172.9                   328.3
TV RECEVIERSTNHJUSAND POP          0.1        0.8       22.6               58.5                   112.4
NEISPA    ("DILY I ENCUEAL
INTEREST") CXI7LATION
PER TUIUSAID PaOIATION           11.0         ..        14.9              65.3                    81.1
CDC  ANNUAL ATNDANCCMITA           2.8        ..         1.0 Ic            3.4                      2.4
LBRPO=E
TOTAL LOR FOZE (ClS)            34791.0    41090.0    5417.0
P4ALE  (PCN)                    27.8       30.9        29.3              33.6                    23.6
ACRICILTURE (PERCENT)           75.0       66.0        55.0 lc           52.2                    31.4
nnusmr CPzCr)M                   8.0        10.0       12.0 r7           17.9                    24.3
PARTICIPATXON EAT1 (PERCENT)
TOTL                            36.7       35.4        35.0              3B.9                    33.5
HALE                            54.2       49.5        49.6              50.6                    51.3
FEMA                            20.0       21.6        20.4              26.8                    15.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO          1.2        1.3         1.3               1.1                     1.3
PERM  OF PTATE DINCCI
RECIVD B!
NICRECST S or BUUSENIWS          ..          ..        23.5 A
HIGUEST 20 Ocr i0S               ..         ..        49.4              4;8.
L'UZST 201 OF nooiO              ,.          .,        6 6               6.4
ULOIEST 40S 0F  os               ..          ..        14.47             15.5
-OMC  TAM= C-UP
3ST M ABSME POPEmr xUCE
LEVEL CBS$ PER CAPI
URSIU                            ..        L24.0 h   124.0/h              ..                    28.3
RIRAL                            ..        106.0 7i   106.0 WE          151.9                   185.3
ESTIRATED RELATVC POKm TCUM
LEEL (Can PER CA
sB                               ..          ..       119.0 /b          177.9                   519.8
RURAL                            ..         ..         98.07            164.7                   359.7
AM   rPO. BEO ASSOLAZE
POWT   INCOM LEL CZ)
URtlR                            ..        51.0 lb    26.0 /b            23.5
URAL                             ..        59.0 7ii    U.O 7ii           37.8
MrT AVAUIABL
NOT APPLICALE
11OTCES
/a  The group mvacases for each Indcator are poputlon-veigted arlthetic _m. Covera  of countries
mag the indicators depends on availability of data and In not uniform.
/I   uceias otbarwln noted. -Data for 190w refer to an year bet_e 1959 and 1961; 'Data for 1970' bee
199 ad 1971: and data for Mowt Recent E.tfrnet" betwee 1961 and 1983.
/e  1980; Id 1977; /e 1979; /f 1962;    1976; /b 1980 prices.
UN, 1965



-28 -                                        ANEX I
Page 3 of 6 pages
DUU4TNONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
Nats Albaug tue data ae dw frm s        generally judpd the mot autharisahivand reiabk it shod also be noted that thcy may not be intaenuonaly
compar   bouon of dhe lack of aradaidind ddnioms ad ceunp Lmd by difrat countries in collhction the datL flhc dm ar. noehele  useful to
desmribe artas of magiude. indca_t trds sa cluracerM camn major dibnen beten caurten
The &r--eap a vIl) tibame country gasp of the subat ceuty ad (21 A mitgy gop  with sanwwat higher averag income shan the country
grop of the wbjan coatry (camps ror -H4sb In_ame Oil Expor" gaup whee "Middk laoni Noath Afric and Middkl FNa i chnk becau of aronrw
sococuluual alaitim. In [be trice graup dt the averages amr population weigted aritbmetic marn  or cacb idicator snd shown only when mjority
of thecomuic in a gup I. dm ror that indicor. Sam the coverae ataounmtria senmng thencors dependsc on the avaibility ordata and is not uniform
caution mnt bcid in rlatgaver  aone indic    t      eT these wava    rc only useful in comparing the value atom idicatorat a time among
the couty a Pnd rerace gopq
AREA (tbousand sq.km.)                                           Cid Jlitk Roue (per theasadl)-Number of live births in the year
Teed-Total surace ar  comprising land    and inland wates;       per thousand or mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
1960, 1970 and 1983 data.                                        Cmd Dah Rate (per thuuaad)-Number of deaths in the year
Agrkeuusf-Estinatte of agriculturld area used temporarily or     per thousand of mid-year population; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data.
permanenLly for crops, pasturcs. narket and kitchen gardens or to  C-a Repeduei. Re-Average number of daughters a woman
lie falrow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                            will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-NP per capita estimatcs at current          in 1960. 1970, and 1983.
market price  calculated by same conversion method as Wbrld      amily PIumNiJr-AWpWs. Amd (theusads)-Annual nti-
Rank Atras (1931483 basis); 1913 data.                           berof t         o bir-cntrol deviccs under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMI'1ON IPER CAPITA-Annual apparent                   fanmily planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite.      Fmily fUsir-Uer (parewr of marred iaer)-The percen-
petroleum. natur  gas and hydro-. nulekar and geotermal lec-     tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
tricty) in kilograms of oil equivalent pcr capita; 1960. 197Q and  whose husbands are practicing any form of contaception. Women
19B2 data.                                                      of chDd-bearing age arc generally women aged 1549. although for
sone countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPUIATION AND VITAL STATlSTICS                                  groups.
Total tp.lap im. Mid- Ye  (aheasamdr -As of July 1; 1960. 1970,  FOOD AND NUTRION
and 1983 data.
Ura  Ppu          (pererf tdrel)-Ratio of urbantx fFdAwd                                   Per Capita (1969-71 = .60J-E ndcez of per
of rral-Rato o  UUiIU  o ttal capita annual production of all food commodities. Production
population: diffecent definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  exludes animal feed and seed for agrcutur. Food commodities
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.     include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
1' putat  Ajentioas                                              which are edible and contain nutrients (e-g coffee and tea are
Rpukation an year 2000-The projection of population for 200D.    cxcudedk they comprise cereals, root crops. pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on   vegeables fruitLs nuts. sugarcane and sugar bes livestock and
total population by age and sex, fertility rates mortality rates, and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
iternational migration in the base year 1980. thsese paranes     on national average producer price weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 dat.
assumptions until the population became stationary.              Per Cpit Supwpy of Cal s (pereo ofrrqnirenrnj-Comput-
Statiinary popu&aton-Is one in whicb age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates have simultaneously remaincd at replacement level  tion, imports less export  and changes in stock. Net supplies
(net reproduction rate= 1). In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the age structure is also  food processing, and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth ratc us zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percemn for
rate to replacement level.                                       waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pn, iilation Moenrwrn-ls the tendency for population growth to   Per Capia Spplfy of Protein (gras per dayj-Proiein content of
continue beyond the time that rcplacement-kvcl fertility bas been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved. that is. even after the net reprodtwion rate has reached  as above. Requiremnts for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year r is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulsc protein, of which 10 grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards-are lower than those of
ment level from year r onward. I S5 data.                        75 gamns of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
-OPN"dO- Density                                                 average for the wodrid proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.nk.-Mid-ycar population per square kilometer (100 hec-    Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Per Capes Pre Supp$ Pren Asixe and Arse-Protein supply
Per sqJi.. agricrd:ural land-Computed as above for agrcultural   of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per dav: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                            1970 and 1977 data.
Aopulutieu Age Stkrew (perceaf-Children (0-14 years). work-      CAifd (agesl4) Death Rate (per tkourdj-N umber or deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over)as percentage  children aged 1-4 year pcr thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.               group in a given year. For most deveoping countnes data derived
from life tables: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
PAsepa CGrJ Rrte (pteteer) san-Anual growtb rates of
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.     HEALTH
Afpawi.e  Grewk Rare (percenir)-srhan-Annual growth rates        Life E.rpeca   at lirth  (pearsi-N umber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950460. 1960-70. and 1970-83 da-a.      infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



- 29 -                                   ANNEX  I
Page 4 of 6 pages
at the time of of its birth were to say the ame througbout its igf;  Awplteacher Rtoio - prLay. aid scondarj-Totai studerto en-
1960, 197I and 1983 dam.                                       roled in primary and secondary levels divided by numben of
howme M    ft   Xav (pm' t*Hd  -Number of infants who die      teacher, in the conesponding kevel.
before reachins  one year of ae per tbousnd live birth in a given
yea. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                 CONSUMPION
Acm   e t * fzrWaw  (pm    of WeOOD .t              md         huser Cms (pwr thoumad epilwiou)-Passngpr crs comn-
,wwl-Number of peopb (tclt, urban and rural) wit reaable       pri motor cms seadng less than eit persors excludes ambul-
acess to safe war supply (cude treaed surface was or           memes, hs  and military vehwcs.
muntrat  but nfl  mnaed water such a that from procged         Xedo Reo          (per thaouad papuALiatu)-All types of recevers
borehokl, spn and mnitary wes) u pewnntge of ther mpe-         for radio broadcasts to general publk per thousand of population;
tve popuatios. In an urbn rea a publc fountain or sandpos      excludes un-cesed receiver in counries and in years wh.n
locRed not more thn 200 meters from a hou may be  dee                tion of radio sets was in effect; data for reomt ycars nay
as being within reaonable asoma of tha house. In rural arms    notbe compaal  ic otcutisaoihdlcnig
reasonable  a  wc od imply that the houwife or memben of thed
hou_lhol do not have to spend a disproportiount pat of the day  TVRegis (per tA    dp*ph*n)-TV mowvers for broadcast
ill     gth fimyswatacdL                                       to generl public per thousand population. cludes uniceed TV
in fetching th4 fanully's                                      receiven in counties and in yeas when registration of TV ses was
Accem to Eurt. Disosa (percentppwd)-W4wn                       in efe
aid nal-Numbcr of people (total, urban. and rral) served by    in       c()
excreta disposal - prcentages of their respective populations.  G                  (    huP)-Shows the aver-
Exacta disposl may indude the colection and disposal with or   age ciculation of daily general interst newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, of huan excret, and waste-water by water-   peiodical publication devoted prinarily to recording gnal news.
borne system or the use of pit privics and imilar installations.  It is considered to be -daily' if it appears at kast four times a wek
Psdhi  per PoyAdd-ftpulation divided by number of prac-        Ciemu A_mal Ajtedaace per Cait per Yew-Based on the
tising phyicians qualified from a medical school at university levd.  number of tickes sold during the year. including admissions to
PoI_ild  pgr Nxamug Pemsoo-Population divided by number of     drive-in cinemas and mobilc units.
praicing male and female grduate nurses. assistant nurses.     LABOR FORCE
praci  nurnes and nursing auxiliaries.                            L         FORCE
*-waa per HPM   pital .Be-40al arbm, _ ad r.ua--Fpulation      cotal  armor frce   andnemlconomically active personus  in-
(total, urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of  cuding armed rces and unemployed but exduding housewives,
hospital beds avilabk in rublk and private, general and spedai.ed  students, etc., covenng population of all ages. Definitions in
hospitals and rehabilitation centers. Hospitals are est mts    various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanntly staffed by at least one physician. Establshments prov-  F   (perenstr-Fnalce labor forec as percentage of total labor
idg principaly custodial cawe arc not included. Rural hospitads.  force.
however. includc bealtb and medid centers no poernanently staffed  Agrirhmre (prnenrj-Labor forcc in fanning, forestry, hunting
by a physician (but by a mndiCal assistant, nurse, midwifec. etc.)  and fishing as parzntage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
whni  offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
Of medical facilties,                                          rd.sry vpercent)-Labor force in mining. constuction. manu-
AAn&uins per HospiW  Bed-Total number of admissions to or      facturing and eectricity. water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges from hospitals divided by the number of beds.       force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
PWr*vdu Rts (pcexr)--;ort   mek. dxdfeimtle-larticipation
HOUISING                                                       or activity rates are computed as total. male, and female labor force
Avera  Ske of Ho0ehold (prmou per  ebosold-rotal.  w,         as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
anui,arU-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on [LO's
living quartem and their nain meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure of the popuation, and
may not be included in the household for statistica purposes.  long tire trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Average Nwnvher of Persu per Roou_sota4. urba, aid rura-       Ecowomd  Dependecwy Rari-Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64).
occupied conventional dwellings. respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBLTrION
Pereetage of Dweiys with Electriey-rotal, arwha, and nw-       Perceanrge of Tota D;sposahk iome (boh m carh and kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to perccntile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and rural dwellings respectively.        hold incomc.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
*sred Ew rmo      Rados                                        The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Prmary school - totarl mao  and ftma-Gross total. male and     leveds, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrolmcnt of aDl ages at the primary level as percentages of  Estimtd Absoate Pbverry Income Lee (USS per copstaj-wrhau
respective primary school-age populations. Whik many countnes  and ruraF-Absolute poverty income lvel is that income level
consider prinary school age to be 6-11 years. others do not. The  below which a minimal nutntionally adequate diet plus essential
differencs in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordal'.e.
are reflected in the ratios given For some countries with universal  Estimted Relive Poverty lncene Lewe (USS per capira)-arhan
education. gross enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some  aid rwral-Rural rclative poverty income klvel is one-third of
pupils are bceow or above the country's standard primary-scbool  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                           denved from the rural levcl with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondary school - toa&. mad  and femae-Computed as above.     living in urban areas.
secondary education requinrs at least four years of approved pr-  Estimed Popsuatn Belw Ahioate Povery Ineme Level (per-
mary instruction provides general vocationaL or teacher trainin8g  ceJ)-_rm and   d- Pcrcent of population (urbon and rural
instructions for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspond-  who are "absolute poor.
ence coures are generally exlcded.
Vocawoual Enrfimweri (percent of secondmryj-Vocational institu-           Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions include technicaL indusriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepcndently or as departments of secondary institutions.                             June 1985



30 -                                          ASfl 1
Page 5 of 6 page
Population       155.8 million (mid-1983)
CNP per Capita:  US$560 (1993 eutiuate)
INDONESIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amount
(milliua US; at                            Annual growth rate (1) /b
c'trrent piceas)                Actual                                 Projected
Indicator                           1983         1Y5_ 1551   l8S   155   1554/a  1955   l956   1987  1955   1989 19_0
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product Ic         78,344        9.9    7.9   -0.2    4.7    6.5    2.9    4.6    5.1    4.7    4.1    4.3
AgricuLture                     20.651        5.2    4.9    2.1    4.8    5.0    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7    3.7
Industry                        29,896       12.5    8.5  -6.4    5.0    9.8    0.9    4.5    5.5    4.6    3.0    3.5
Services                        27.797       11.9    9.8    5.5    4.3    4.0    4.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5    5.5
Consumption                       62,731       12.4   15.8    3.0    0.7    7.2    3.1    3.1    4.2    4.2    4.2    4.2
Cross livestment /d               18,908       18.9   11.1    8.5   -7.0   -9.0    5.1    5.1    5.3    5.5    5.7    5.5
Exports of CNFS                   19,508       -5.6   -2.4  -12.6   14.2    3.5    1.4    6.4    5.2    3.9    1.4    3.0
lIports of CNFS                   22,803       15.1   27.1    3.2   -8.6   -7.5    3.6    1.5    2.4    2.6    2.6    3A
Cross national savings            12,273       33.2 -20.0 -11.3    3.7   18.4   -3.3    8.9    8.0    6.9    5.3    5.2
PRICES
F-ldefLator (1981 - 100)                          91    100    113    131    142    154    168    183    199    217    237
Exchange rate (Ep per US$)                      627    632    661    909  1,026
Share of CDP at market prices (Z)
(at current priees)                         Average annual increase CZ) /b
1960   1970   19/5   158       5 19 50 1Yb- 10   1970-f/  1515-50   1980-55   1985-9U
Gross domestic product          100    100    100    100    100    100          3.9       8.4       7.4        4.3       4.6
Agriculture                    54     47     32      25     26     25         2.7       4.1       3.3        4.1       3.7
Industry                       14     18     34     43      38     38        5.2       12.0       9.8        3.4       4.2
Services                       32     35     35     32      36     37        4.8        9.7       9.5        5.6       5.5
Consumption                    91     89     79     71      78     76        4.1        8.4       9.2        6.0       4.0
Gross investment /d             8     14     20     21      18     19        4.8       18.3      12.2        2.6       5.4
Exports of GNPS -              13     13     23     31      25     24         3.6       9.2       2.9       -1.1       4.0
Imports of CNFS              -13    -16    -22    -22    -21    -19          3.2       22.1      14.0        2.6       2.5
Gross national savings          8      9     17     26      19     21         6.1      23.1      14.2       -0.3       6.8
As K of CDP
1960              151970           s5fG                 1550              1955
PUBLIC FINANCE /e
urrrent revenue                              11.7               10.1               17.4              22.5               21.5
Current expenditures                         14.0                8.4                9.9              12.8               13.3
Surplus (+) or deficit (-)                   -2.3               +1.6              +7.5               +9.7               *6.2
Capital expenditure                           n.a.               5.0               11.3              13.0               10.0
Foreign financing                             0.2                3.5                3.7               3.3                1.8
1960-70         1970-75          1975-80          1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual SNt  growth rate (Z)                         4.5              7.6              7.1            4.1              4.7
Annual GNP per capira growth rate (S)               2.4              5.1              4.7            2.0              2.5
Annual energy consumption growth rate (2)           2.2             11.2             11.0             1.4             4.6
IOOR                                                2.2              2.2              3.3            4.8              4.0
Marginal savlngs rate                               0.30             0.48             0.28          -0.01             0.29
Import elasticity                                    1.2             2.8              0.84           0.57             0.53
fa  Estimates.
7W  At constant 1973 prices for 1980-81, and 1981 prices for 1982-90.
7T1  At market prices.
71 Fixed investment; stock changes are included in consumption.
7e Central Government only, on an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
East Asia and Paclfic Region
May 31. 1985



- 31 -
Population    :  155.8 million (mid-1983)                                                                ANNgeX I
CUP per COpita: US$560 (1983 esctimte)                                                                    PsEg  6 of 6 pagec
INDONESIA - BALANCE OF PA9NENTS AND EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
K1lltons U5S at current pricems
Actual                               ProJecte
190     1981     1982     1983     1951/a  1985     1986     1987    1S90
BALANCE OF PA'MENTS/b
1.  Exports                                   22.885   22,994   18,672   19,817   20.243  20,769   22,866   26,170   36,235
(a) Oti  and ING (gross)                  17.297   18,824   14,744   14.449   14,341  14,253   15.512   17,821   23,848
(b)  Nonoil                                5.588    4,170    3.928    5,368    5,902   6,516    7,356    8,349   12.387
2.  lsports (tncluding net NFS)              -17,589  -22,570  -22,339  -19,655  -17,611 -19,066 -20,783  -23,026  -31,586
(a)  Oil sector                           -4,050  -5,407   -4,802  -3,839   -3,135  -3,801  -4,113  -3,619  -6,540
(b)  Ronoal imports                      -11,837 -14,561  -15,824 -14,246  -12,805 -13.616  -14.899 -16,462 -22,438
(c) NFS (net)                             -1.702  -2,602  -1,713   -1,570   -1,611  -1,649   -1.771   -1,945   -2.608
3.  Resource balance                           5,296      424  -3.667       162  -2.632   1,701    2,085    3,144    2,800
4.  Factor services                           -3,165   -3,210   -3,573   -4,476   -4,596  -4,528  -4."4   -5,708   -7,287
(a)  Interest public debt                   -823     -994  -1,145   -1.256  -1,620  -1,598  -1,851   -2.132  -4,487
(b)  Other (net)                          -2,342  -2,216   -2,428   -3,220  -2,976  -2,930   -3,143  -3,576  -4.487
5. Capital grants                                 76       67      105       95      100      112      119      125      150
6.  Balance on current accounLt                2,207  -2,719   -7,135   -4,219   -1,864  -2,715   -2,790   -2,439   -2,488
7. Direct foreign Lnvestment                     140      142      311      193      250     250       275      300      375
8. Public M & LT loens
(a)  Disbursement                          2,551    2,673    4,192    4,965    3,828   4,988    5,428    6,068    6,692
(b)  Amortization                           -936  -1,053  -1,102   -1,295   -1,628  -1,980   -2,137   -2,545   -4,603
Cc) Net disbursements                      1,615    1,620    3,090    3,670    2,220   3,008    3,291    3,523    2,289
9. Other capital (net)                        -1,488      -31      455    1,975      287   -143    -104        -418      133
10.  Change In reserves (- Increase)           -2,736      988    3,350  -1,619      -873   -400      -672    -966       -309
LI. Net official reserves                       7,342    6,354    3,004    4,62;   S,496   5,896    6,588    7,534    9,384
Reserves in aonths of nonoil imports
+ NFS                                      6.5      4.4      2.1      3.5       4.6     4.6      4.7      4.9      4.5
Memorandum Item
Net foreign assets of the banking
syste /c                                   10,787   10,622    6,322    8,395    9,930  10,331   11,003   11,969   13,819
Total reserves in months of nonoil
imports + NFS                                 9.6      7.4      4.3      6.4      8.2     8.1      7.9       7.8      6.6
EXTERNAL CAPITAL AND DEBT/d
Gross Disbursements                           2 551    2 673    4 192   4 965    3.828
Concessional Loans                              658            .'3*   `8W           33T
Bijateral                                   1                 61                X7
IDA                                          42       69       78       60       54
other                                         6        7        8        8       19
Nonconcessional Loans                         1 892    1,880    3 503    4 357    3 277
BlIateral                                  .-il.E    -i-LE    .;7L~
IBRD                                          331      314      505      489      772
Other multilateral                             52       85      126      160       163
Private-source                              1,421    1,310    2,356    3.219    1,938
External Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed /e          14 971   15 870   18 515  21 686   22 863
Official-source                         TSW                T
Private-source                            5.465    5,812    7,403    9,649   10,042
Undisbursed debt                            9,481   11,387   12,870   13,778   13.973
Debt Service
TotaL se1rvce payments                      1,759    2,047    2,247    2,551    3,248
interest                                    823      994    1,145    1,256    1,620
Payments as Z of exports/f                    7.7      8.9    12.0    12.9       16.0
Average Interest Rate on New Loans CZ)          8.1      8.7      9.2      8.8      9.1
Ottictal-source                               5.4      7.8      8.8      8.7      8.6
Private-source                               12.4      9.4      9.5      8.8      9.8
Average Maturity of Nev Loans (Years)          18.8    15.5    15.2    15.1         15.9
tt icial-source                              24.4    20.5    20.6    22.3    20.9
Private-source                                9.8     11.1     11.1     10.3      9.Z
As Z of debt outstanding at end of 1954
Maturity struccure of debt outstanding
Maturities due vithin 5 years                                                                          34
Maturities due within 10 years                                                                        65
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due within first year                                                                       7.0
/a EstiSates.
71 On an April-to-March fiscal year basis.
7F Includes foreign assets of deposit money banks in addition to official reserves.
7T Excludes private nonguaranteed loans.
t1  At end of period.                                                                        East Asia and Pacific Region
1r Oil exports treated on gross basis.                                                               May 31, 1985



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of September 30, 1985) /a
Loan/                                                       Amount (US$ million)
Credit Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
nutber  year   Purpose                                     B-nk     IDA    Undisbursed
Thirty-six Loans and forty-three Credits fully
disbursed                                              1,915.90   764.48        -
1578   1978   Tenth Irrigation                            109.00      -        28.98
1604   1978  Nucleus Estate and Smallholders II           50.50       -        12.90
1645   1979   Twelfth Irrigation                          68.20       -         9.01
1653   1979   Third Urban Development                      54.00      -        10.39
1696   1979   Fifth Righway                              123.20       -        12.18
1707    1979  Transaigration II                            90.00      -        79.15
1708   1979   ELghth Power                               175.00       -        39.70
1709    1979   Second Water Supply                         35.50      -         7.01
946   1980  Yogyakarta Rural Development                   -       12.00       6.15
1751    1980  Nucleus Estate and Smallholders III         92.00       -        23.85
984   1980   Suallholder Rubber Developmet                 -       27.00       6.95
995   1980  Fifteenth Irrigation                           -       37.60       6q72
996   1980   National Agriculture Extension II             -       39.00      19.77
1811    1980  Fourteenth Irrigation                      116.00       -        45.83
1835    1980   Nucleus Estate and SIallholders IV          30.00      -        16.75
1840    1980  National Agricultural Research               35.00      -        35.00
1014    1980   National Agricultural Research               -       30.00       3.60
1872    1980  Ninth Power                                 253.00      -        77.73
1898   1981   S-Illholder Coconut Development              25.00.     -        11.41
1904    1981  University Development                       45.00      -        35.16
1950    1981   Tenth Power                                250.00      -        12.96
1958    1981   Swamp Reclamation                           22.00      -        12.98
1972   1981   Fourth Urban Development                     43.00      -        22.36
2007    1981   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders V          134.00      -        84.49
2011    1981   Second Small Enterprise Development       106.00       -         5.48
2049    1982   Jakarta-Cikampek Highway                   85.00       -        72.73
2056   1982   Eleventh Power                             170.00       -        56.27
2066    1982   Second Seeds                               15.00       -         9.89
/a The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on
all Bank/IDA financial projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                        Anount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
number  year   Purpose                                     Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
2079    1982   Bukit Asam Coal Mining Development and
Transport                               185.00       -        78.03
2083    1982   Rural Roads Development                     85.00      -        45.86
2101    1982   Second Teacher Training                     80.00      -        72.56
2102    1982   Second Textbook                             25.00      -        23.16
2118    1982   Sixteenth Irrigation                        37.00      -        19.17
2119    1982   Seventeenth Irrigation (East Java           70.00      -        41.16
Province)
2120    1982  National Fertilizer Distribution             66.00      -        35.62
2126    1982   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI          55.50      -        45.51
2153    1982   Coal Exploration Engineering                25.00      -        16.93
2199    1982   Central Java Pulp and Paper Engineering      5.50      -         4.03
2214    1983  Twelfth Power                               300.00      -       236.22
2232    1983   Nucleus Estate and Smallholders VI-I       138.90      -       136.57
2235    1983   Provincial Health                           27.00      -        25.19
2236    1983   Jakarta Sewerage and Sanitation             22.40      -        20.25
2248    1983   Transmigration III                         101.00      -        58.66
2258    1983   Public Works Manpower Development           30.00      -        27.29
2275    1983  East Java Water Supply                       30.60      -        22.00
2277    1983   Fifth BAPINDO                              208.90      -       147.25
2288    1983   Transmigration IV                           63.50      -        60.87
2290    1983   Second Polytechnic                         107.40      -       106.99
2300    1983   Thirteenth Power                           279.00      -       211.47
2341    1984   Third Agricultural Training                 63.30      -        60.32
2344    1984  Nucleus Estate and Smallholder Sugar         79.20      -        50.65
2355    1984   Second Non-Formal Education                 43.00      -        38.78
2375    1984   Second Provincial Irrigation Dev.           89.00      -        72.64
2404    1984   Highway Betterment                         240.00      -       213.71
2408    1984  Fifth Urban Development                      39.25      -        39.07
2430    1984   Third Small Enterprise Development         204.65      -       114.40
2431    1984   Second Swamp Reclamation                    65.00      -        63.53
2443    1984   Fourteenth Power                           210.00      -       20S.48
1950-1  1985   Supplemental Loan for Tenth Power
(1950-IND)                               50.00      -         32.23
2472    1985   Secondary Education and Management
Training                                 78.00       -        75.74



- 34 -
AENEX II
Page 3 of 4 pages
Loan/                                                       Amount (US$ million)
Credit  Fiscal                                              (lesa  cancellations)
number  year   Purpose                                    Bank      IDA    Undisbursed
2474    1985   Upland Agriculture and Conservation        11.30      -         11.27
2494    1985  Smallholder Rubber Development II          131.00      -        131.00
2529    1985   Fourth Population                          46.00      -         46.00
2542    1985   Second Health (Manposer Development) /a    39.00      -         39.00
2543    1985   Kedung Onbo Multipurpose Dam and
Irrigation /a                           156.00      -        156.00
2547    1985   Second University Development             147.00      -        147.00
2560    1985  West Tarum Canal Improvement la             43.40      -         43.40
2577    1985   National Ports Development                111.00      -        111.00
2578    1985   Transmigration V /a                       160.00      -        160.00
2599    1986   Science and Technology Training            93.00      -         93.00
Total Bank loans and 1DA credits        8,084.10   943.52
Less cancellations                       -224.53   -33.44
1,859.57   910.08
Of which has been repaid                 -481.49   -20.54
Total now outstanding                   7,378.08   889.54
Amount sold to third party       28.24
Amount repaid by third party    -28.24       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA /b       7,582.24   889.54
Total undisbursed /c                                        4,108.45
/a Not yet effective.
/b Prior to exchange adjustment.
/c Includes loans not yet effective.



- 35 -
ANNEX tI
Page 4 of 4 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of September 30, 1985)
Fiscal                                                              Loan  Equity  Total
year   Obligor                            Type of business         -  (US$ million) -
1971    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                   10.6    2.5    13.1
1971    P.T. Unitex                        Textiles                  2.5    0.8      3.3
1971    P.T. Primatexco-Indonesia          Textiles                  2.0    0.5      2.5
1971    P.T. Kabel Indonesia               Cable                     2.8    0.4      3.2
1972    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                   4.5    1.5      6.0
1973    P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel            Tourism                   9.8    1.6    11.4
1973    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                    5.4    0.7      6.1
1974    P.T. Primatexco Indonesia          Textiles                  2.0    0.3      2.3
1974    P.T. Monsanto Pan                  Electronics               0.9     -       0.9
1974    P.T. PDFCI                         Dev. fin. co.              -      0.5     0.5
1974    P.T. KMmaltex                      Textiles                  2.4    0.6      3.0
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                    5.0    1.5      6.5
1976    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                     -     1.1      1.1
1977    P.T. Daralon Textile Mfg. Corp.   Textiles                   0.4     -       0.4
1977    P.T. Kamaltex                      Textiles                  1.3    0.2      1.5
1979    P.T. Daralon                       Textiles                  0.9     -       0.9
1980    P.T. Papan Sejahtera               Capital market            4.0    1.2      5.2
1980    P.T. Indo American Industries      Glass dinnerware         11.1    0.9    12.0
1980    P.T. Semen Andalas Indonesia       Cement and construc-
tion material         48.0    5.0    53.0
1982/5  P.T. Saseka Gelora Leasing         Capital market            5.0    0.3      5.3
1984    P.T. Semen Cibinong                Cement                   25.0     -      25.0
Total gross commitments                                    143.6   19.6   163.2
Less: sold or repaid and cancelled                         110.8    7.3   118.1
Total held by IFC                                           32.8   12.3    45.1
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)                1.0             1.0



- 36 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDONESIA
SECOND NUTRITION AND COMMUNITY HEALTH PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare the project:           8 months
(b)  Agency which prepared the project:           Ministry of Health
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:              August 1984
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:      March 1985
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:          October 1985
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:               March 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Project implementation workshop is planned in December 1985 (para. 57).
Section III: Special Conditions
The Covernment would:
(a) undertake and complete an evaluation of "microplanning" by September
30, 1986 (para. 35);
(b) (i) complete the preparation of field supervision guidelines/manuals
by September 30, 1986; (ii) prepare annual field supervision
schedules by March 31 each year and thereafter carry out supervision
taking into account the Bank's comments; and (iii) develop an index
of reporting/monitoring indicators by September 30, 1986 (para. 36);
(c) undertake and complete baseline and mid-project evaluations of the
coordinated community health programs by October 1, 1986 and by
April 30, 1988, respectively (para. 38);
(d) appoint a total of ten incremenktal staff required for the Office of
the Secretariat of the Directorate General of Community Health as
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan (para. 38);
(e)  administer the programs operations support funds in accordance with
criteria, and on terms and conditions, acceptable to the Bank; it
would be a condition of disbursement that no withdrawals would be
made in respect or these funds until the Government has submitted
recommendations satisfactory to the Bank for their use (para. 39);
(f)  prepare annual timely warning and intervention system (TWIS)
development plans by May 31, 1986 and by March 31 each year
thereafter (para. 41);



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(g) prepare annual work plans for nutrition policy and program studies
by May 31, 1986 and by March 31 each year thereafter; the establish-
ment of a Steering Committee, chaired by the Director General of
Community Health, to be responsible for the selection of studies and
research projects and the selection of the entity to carry out such
study or research project would be a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed loan (para. 43);
(h) commence nutrition information activities by May 31, 1986 and
thereafter maintain the Nutrition Information Unit with appropriate
staffing and budgetary resources (para. 44);
(i) finance project vehicles and procure them under the schedule agreed
with the Bank (para. 50); and
(j) the establishment of the Project Steering Committee to ensure
appropriate intra- and inter-ministeral coordination, would be a
condition of effectiveness of the proposed Loan (para. 54).



7   .        ' ~~~~4-  -THALAND      h;                      1                 f '^-t                      }       \WE}l  n
. / - t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HILIFIHNES                                               INDONESIA
. V  '                  ' n a                  d         fi "->$                     *s      SECfO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RINORITNYPRROVIINCES ANDNUTRITION TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
\ % e o o 0 J ! ,1 C e l e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~olbaes S ao                                                            o  f Arh,   {log
l~ ~ ~ ~   ~           ~          ~           ~         ~ ~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 11 Ca".-.e_  
!sU"ste^#atw X4 9APoRoSE oc v1jp z| 
I>Wl.I,lU"^<'IA~~~~~~~~~ 1,A,d                  M A                                                         ed        e                 't                   )
wtr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~#A                                                               -IA: A l  1?.1






