lAWN-P                    RESTRICTED
Report No. PA-Z2
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
PHILIPPINES
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 30, 1969
Agriculture Projects Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00              = Philippine Peso E- 3. 90
1 FP                  = US$ 0. 256
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 hectare (ha)        = 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)      = 0. 62 miles
1 square kilometer
(krn2)              = 0. 3886 square miles
1 rneter (m)          = 39. 37 inches
1 square meter (mi2)   =  10. 76 square feet
1 cubic meter (m3)    = 35. 31 cubic feet
1 million cubic meter
(Mm3)               = 810.7 acre feet
1 millimeter (mm)    = 0. 039 inches
1 kilogram (kg)       = 2. 2 pounds                                I
1 liter (1)           = 0. 264 gallons U. S.
1 cavan (paddy)       = 44 kg
22. 7 cavans          =  1 metric ton
INITIALS AND ACRONYMS
APC     = Agricultural Productivity Commission
NIA     = National Irrigation Administration
NPC     = National Power Corporation
RCA     = Rice and Corn Administration
RCPCC  = Rice and Corn Production Coordinating
Council
USAID   = US Agency for International Development
USBR    = US Bureau of Reclamation



PHILIPPINES
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Pag
SUNMARY   . . .  . , , . ,  . . .  . . . . . . . . .   .  - ii
I.       INTRODWCTION . . , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
II.      BACKGROUND . . . , 9 . ,   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1
III.      THE PROJECT AREA  , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    3
General    .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  3
Climate    .  .  .  .  9  ,  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ,  .  3
Soils and Drainage      ,..............  ,                4
Farm Size and Land Tenure  F                              1*
Transportation .at ..............   . .
Iv.       THEPROJECT     ...      . 999999 99,99999999 9.           5
Proposed lWorks . . . 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    5
Wiater Supply and Demand  . . .  .. .  .    . .  .. . .. .  7
Status of Engineering  . . . . . . . . a . . . . .  . .    8
Futjre Power Development ,          .    . .  . .. ....   9
Flood Control  . . . 9 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 . .    9
Cost Estimates . .       ..    ..  9. .                    9
Procurement and Disbursement ,                             10
Financing   . 9   .9. ,  e  * .* * *           * * v   *    11
Auditing of Accounts .t.. . . . ...                        12
V.        AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPNENT . . .  . . . . . . . . . .  .    13
Present Conditions . , to. . a   . .  . . . , . .a. . .  ,    13
Expected Yields and Production . . , . . . . . . . . .    13
Storage and Marketing    9 9   9 9   9  9  9  9  9 9 .  9 .   11
VI.       ORGANIZATION AND MANAGMENT        . . . . . . . . . *. .    15
The National Irrigation Administration . . . . . . . *    15
Construction  * . .    * . . . .   * *  * * * * * * a * *    16
Operation and Maintenance  . .   . . . . . . . ...         17
Technical Assistance, Services and Credit to Farmers .    17
VII.      FINANCIAL RESULTS ,        .  ........ , .9.9.999999999 .  18
Operation and Maintenance Costs  . . . . . . . . . .
Water Charges  .l.    9 **
Farmers' Income  . ,  . . 9 . . . . , . .        . . . . .  20
V:II.    BENEFITS AND SAJSTIFICATIONI., .....             .... ........ .    20
ITX      CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS   2.... ,      ,..         21
Thits report tas prepa red by Messrs.  Golan, Douglass, Marinet and Hoffman
(Consultant), and is based on findings of a mission which visited the
7hilippines in September/October 1968.



ANNEES
1. Construction Schedule
2.  Description of Works
3. Hydrology
h. Cost Estimates
5. Equipment, Materials and Supplies
6. Present and T>rojected Yields and Returns
7.  Organization and ManagEment
8. Economic Rate of Returm
MAP
Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project
.



PHILIPPI1ES
UPPER PAYTANGA RIVER MRFiATION PROJECT
Summary
io         The Government of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan to
meet the foreign exchange costs of the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation
Project in Central Luzon, The project includes the construction of
Pan'tabangan Dam and Reservoir on the Pampanga River, about 10 km north of
the town of Rizals rehabilitation of about 46,000 ha of existing irrigation
systems and the construction of a new system to serve 31,000 ha. The pro-
ject would permit the storage of the flows of the Pampanga River which would
provide a dependable water supply for year round cultivation of 72,000 ha
and an additional area of 5,000 ha during the wet season only. It would
also provide flood protection to lands lying below the dam site.
ii.0       Total project cost, including interest during construction, is
estimated to be R 263 million (US$ 67.5 million), of which US$ 34 million,
or approximately 501. would be in foreign exchange. Design and construction
supervision would be the responsibility of consultants to be employed by the
National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a Government agency responsible
for the national irrigation systems. Construction of the dam and reservoirs
the new irrigation systems and project facilities would be done by contract
following international competitive bidding procedures. Mbst of the rehab-
ilitation work on the existing systems which does not lend itself to contract
work would be performed on force account by the NIA. However, the necessary
equipments materials and supplies for these works and operation and mainten-
ance equipment would be subject to international competitive bidding. Aside
from construction work, the project would also include the engagement of a
imanagement consultant firm to review NVIA's operations, structure and finan-
aial management and a detailed land classification study of the project area.
iii.       The borrower would be the Government of the Republic of the
Philippines and NIA the executing agency for the project.  Coordination of
S             all engineering and agricultural activities on the project would be accom-
plished through the Upper Pampanga River Project Coordinating Committee.
Members of the Committee are the Administrator of NIA, who is also the
chairman; the General Manager of the N4ational Power Corporation; the Director,
Bureau of Public Works; and a representative of the Rice and Corn Production
Coordinating Council. A Joint Technical Staff comprising senior technicians
of the participating agencies would render technical assistance to NIA at
the request of the Committee as and when needed. The NIA is staffed with
competent personnel and with the arrangements for technical assistance and
the employment of consultants would be able to implement the project success-
fully.
iv.        At full development, annual paddy production from project lands is
projected to increase from the present level of approximately 130,000C m ton
to 570,000 m ton. This production would help meet the expected increased



- ii -
demand for rice in the country and thereby reduce the need to rely on
imports.   Assuming all incremental production from the project to be
import substitution, foreign exchange savings would amount to about
US$ 36.5 million annually at full development, compared with an initial
foreign exchange investment, excluding interest, of US$ 29 million.
The project would thus enable the Philippines to improve its di$iglt
balance of payments position.   The project would yield a rate of return
to the economy of 131, excluding benefits from power generation.
v.        The project is technically sound and economically justified.
It is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 34 million and an appropriate term
would be 25 years, including a grace period of seven years.



PHILIPPINES
UPPER P.*1PANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. IITTRODUCTION
1.01      The Goverrnment of the Philippines has requested a Bank loan to meet
the foreign exchange costs of the Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project in
Central Luzon.   The proposed project would be multi-purpose with primary
benefits accruing to irrigation.   Upon completion, it would provide a depend-
able water supply for year round irrigation of 72,000 ha And an
additional area of 5,000 ha during the wet season only, as well as flood
protection and a possible future source of hydroelectric power.
1.02      Technical feasibility studies for the project were prepared by the
US Bureau of Reclamation (USBR) under an agreement with the US Agency for Inter-
national Development (USAID).   Several modifications thereto were subsequently
prepared by various ministries of the Philippines Government under the auspices
of the Upper Pampanga River Project Coordinating Committee.   This report is
based on these feasibility studies and findings of the Bank's appraisal mission
which visited the Philippines in September/October 1968.   Members of the
mission were Messrs. A.Golan, J.C. Douglass, J.A. Marinet and C.J. Hoffman
(Consultant).   This report was prepared by members of the mission.
II. BACKGROUND
2.01      The Philippines archipelago covers an area of about 298,000 kmm2
(115,000 sq mi), scattered over some 7,100 islands between the Pacific Ocean
and the South China Sea.  According to latest estimates, the population is
around 31.6 million and growing rapidly at about 3.2' per annum.    Gross
national product at 1967 market prices was US$ 6.3 billion equivalent, and has
been rising at an average of 5.1% per annum between 1962-1967. Per capita
income based on 1967 population estimates is US$ 182.   The agricultural sector
wqhich, together with fishery and forestry, employs  nearly two-thirds of the
labor force, accomnts for only one-third of net domestic product.   Income in
this sector is substantially lower than the national average.
2.02      Rice, the staple food of the Philippines, is the main agricultural
crop, accounting for about one-half of the area planted to food cmps in the
country. Despite the predominance of rice, the country has yet to reach sus-
tained self-sufficiency in its production.   This is directly linked to poor
paddy yields, which are among the lowest in Southeast Asia.    Several factors
have contributed to the low paddy yields, the more important of which is the
absence of a dependable water supply which discourages the extensive use of
necessary inputs and improved varieties.   Adoption of the neur high yielding
varieties on irrigated lands, however, has made some impact on yields and
production.    Average annual production of rough rice2/ in the Philippines for
the three years 1965-67, was b.1 million m ton - about 14' higher than the aver-
age  of the preceding three years.   At the same time, the area devoted to
paddy production remained virtually unchanged.
1/ Unhusked rice



-2-
2.03      The Government recently launched an all out effort to achieve
self-sufficiency in food production, particularly of rice and corn. In the
case of rice, it has directed these efforts primarily toward the improvement
of yields through the introduction of modern agricultural techniques and
high yielding varieties. Farmers are showing keen interest in the new
varieties and success to date has surpassed expectations. The recent
expansion of production has reduced and, some estimates indicate, temporarily
eliminated the rice deficit, but unless a reasonable rate of growth of rice
production is maintained, increasing demand arising from the growing
population will soon exceed supply.
2.04      Further expansion of areas devoted to high yielding varieties --
depends upon the availability of a regulated water supply which is a pre-
requisite to their profitable cultivation. However, many of the existing
irrigation systems in the country which serve about 500,00O  ha during the
wet season and about 200,000 ha daring the dry season are incapable of
delivering an assured regulated water supply and, with the exception of the
Angat Project covering some 32,000 ha, none of these systems have storage
facilities for dry season irrigation.
2.05     Water resources in the country are abundant, but largely unexploited;
most of the existing irrigation systems rely upon the direct diversion of
unregulated stream flows during the wet season. Cultivation during the dry
season is limited by the scant rainfall and the absence of irrigation storage.
The urgent need to expand the country's irrigation system has been recognized
by Government which assigned high priority to irrigation development under the
"Four-Year Program of the Philippines", covering the period ending June 30, 1970.
2.06      Emphasis on irrigation development in the Philippines is concentrated
on two fronts. First, improvement and rehabilitation of existing irrigation
systems and, second, the construction of storage reservoirs for dry season
irrigation. The improvement and rehabilitation program is being carried out
with the assistance of a USAID loan of US$ 4,7 million for the purchase of
operation and maintenance equipment.  In addition, the Government is preparing,
with the assistance of consultants, feasibility studies for the rehabilitation
and expansion of three systems in IvIindanao under a loan from the Asian
Development Bank, The first step in developing dry season irrigation has been
the construction of Angat Dam in Central Luzon and rehabilitation of the
32,000 ha irrigation system served by the dam. Construction of the dam and
a power plant was financed with the assistance of a Bank loan of US$ 34 million
(297-PH), and was completed in 1967, while the rehabilitation works were
financed in part by a USAID loan. The next dam proposed for dry season
irrigation is the Pantabangan Dam, which is the main structure of the Upper
Pampanga River Irrigation Project.
2.07     I4ain responsibility for irrigation development in the country is in
the hands of the National Irrigation Administration (NIA), a Government agency
created in 1961 to investigate, study, improve, construct and administer all
national irrigation systems in the Philippines. About half of the existing
systems in the country fall into this category. Further details of NIA's
operation and performance to date are given in Chapter VI.



- 3 -
The remaining systems in the country fall into the following categories:
communal systems - developed as community or family irrigation schemes with
some financial assistance from the Goverment; private systems - constructed
and operated by private individuals; and irrigation service units - pump
schemes constructed by the Irrigation Service Unit of the Bureau of Public
WTorks.
III. THE PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      Central Luzon, where the project is located, is the most important
rice producing region in the Philippines.   It contains about 17% of the
annual area planted to paddy and supplies roughly a quarter of the nation's
total rice production.   The region's contribution to total production is
projected to increase to one-third by 1980, largely as a result of the con-
struction of new irrigation systems in the area.
3.02      The proposed project consists of 77,000 ha in the Province of Nueva
Ecija, in Central Luzon, about 80 km north of Manila.   Project lands lie in
the northern part of the Pampanga River Basin, which is bounded by the Sierra
Madre mountains on the east, the Caraballo mountains on the north, the Agno
River Basin on the west and Manila Bay on the south.   The lands extend along
the Pampanga and Talavera Rivers (see Map).
3.03      Population of the project area is close to 500,000;  population
density is about 1.6 persons per hectare, which is well above the national
average of 1.2.
3.0L      There are a number of urban centers distributed throughout the
project area with populations of more than 20,000 people.   The largest city
is Cabanatuan, whose population is 100,000.   Yost of these towns provide
banking, storage facilities and other agricultural services to the surround-
ing agricultural areas.   The internal network of highways, rail and road
connections between the project area and Manila ensure the mobility of the
population and access of farmers to service centers to supply their needs.
3.05      The project lands are devoted mainly to one rainy season paddy crop.
Only about b6,000 ha are partially irrigated in the wet season.   While
double cropping of paddy is practiced in various parts of the Philippines,
only about 7,000 ha in the project area are double cropped at present due to
the absence of a dependable dry season water supply.
Climate
3.06      The climate is tropical and is characterized by a distinct wet and
dry season with precipitation occurring mostly during the southwest monsoon,
between May ard October.   August is usually the heaviest month of precipit-
ation.   The major climatic constraint on agriculture production is the rain-
fall pattern.   Paddy is now planted to grow during the wet southwest monsoon
period. There is insufficient rainfall to support a second paddy crop.



3.07      The mean annual precipitation is lowest in the southern portion of
the project and increases towards the mountains. At Cabanatuan City, the mean
annual total is about 1,800 mm (711"),of which approximately 85% falls in the
wet season. There are occasional months in the dry season when no rain falls.
3.08      Temperature differentials are relatively small throughout the year
and for Cabanatuan City the mean monthly temperature varies from a low of 266C
in January to a high of 300C in May. Relative humidity averages about 75d0.
The project lies in the tropical storm typhoon belt and generally experiences
one or more intense storms every year.
Soils and Drainage
3.09      A detailed soil survey of the project area carried out in 1967 by
the Government's Bureau of Soils, indicates that the project soils are well
suited for multicrop irrigated paddy cultivation.  About two-thirds of the
I             soils are medium to coarse in texture, and have topography and drainage
characteristics suitable for irrigated paddy cultivation the year round.
Some of these soils could also be planted to vegetables and other crops
during the dry season. The balance of the soils have generally poor drainage
and would only be suitable for paddy cultivation. While the internal drainage
system throughout the project area is adequate for paddy cultivation, it would
be necessary to improve surface drainage in order to remove excess rainfall
and irrigation water.
3.10      Large parts of the project area appear suitable for irrigated dry
season production of crops other than rice.   Their introduction would have
the dual advantage of requiring less water than rice while yielding a higher
return.  However, since the existing soils surveys are inadequate to determine
the exact location and suitability of these soils, a detailed land classific-
ation would be carried out on the lighter soils of the project (see para 5.03).
Farm Size and Land Tenure
3.11      The average farm unit in the area is 3.2 ha, with about 84% of the
farms ranging between one and five hectares and accounting for nearly 70% of
the land. Farms larger than 10 ha are few in number, but account for about
10% of the land. The prevailing farm size is suitable for a family type
multiple cropping paddy production.
3.12      Of the 15 municipalities in the project area, all but one have been
brought under the Agricultural Land Reform Code. The agrarian reform is to be
implemented in two stages. The share tenants would first become leasehold
tenants, paying a fixed annual land rental to the landowner, and enjoying a
security of tenure. Rents are the equivalent of 25% of the average harvest
during three years prior to the introduction of land reform in the area less
the cost of seed, harvesting, threshing, hauling and processing. In the
second stage tenants would become full owners of the land. Landowners would
receive 10% of the value of the land in cash and the balance as stocks and/or
bonds issued by the Land Bank.   Tenants would repay the Land Bank over a
period not to exceed 25 years. In the absence of flunds, the second stage of
the reform has not yet been implemented.



3.13      Prior to the introduction of land reform, about two-thirds of the
farmers in the area were tenants, cultivating the land under a crop sharing
arrangement with the landlord. About 6,000 share tenants out of the total
of 17,000 in the area have already become lessees and the status of the rest
is expected to be changed during the next four years. The introduction of
fixed rental payments has provided farmers with an added incentive to increase
production.
Transportation
3.14      The Upper Pampanga Basin has a well developed network of provincial
and municipal roads connecting interior areas with the national highway
system. However, the existing network of feeder roads would not be sufficient
to allow the transport of expected rice production to storage and marketing
centers, The proposed project would provide for the construction of the
necessary additional roads, For details of the feeder roads construction
program see para 4.08.
3.15      The Pampanga River in the project area is not navigable by any
but very small craft.
IV. THE PROJECT
14.01     The project proposed for Bank financing would provide a dependable
water supply for year round cultivation of 72,000 ha, and an additional area
of 5,000 ha during the wet season only and flood protection to lands lying
below the dam site. It includes:
(a) the construction of an earth and rockfill dam and reservoir
at the Pantabangan site;
(b) rehabilitation of the existing irrigation systems serving
about 146,ooo ha;
(c) construction of a new irrigation system to serve about
31,000 ha;
(d) construction of feeder roads and operation and maintenance
facilities;
(e)  procurement of equipment, materials and supplies;
(f)  a study of NIA's operations, structure and financial operations
by a management consultant firm;
(g) a land classification of the project area; and
(h) a feasibility study of possible future power development
at Pantabangan Dam.
A consulting firm would be engaged to prepare detailed designs for the dam,
review and certify designs for all other civil works to be prepared by NIA
and supervise all construction works on the project. Construction works on the p
project would be completed within six years (see Annex 1). A detailed
description of the works is given in Annex 2 and summarized below.
Proposed Works
h.02      The Pantabangan dam site is located in a canyon section of the
Pampanga River, about 10 km north of the town of Rizal, The proposed- dam
would be an earth and rockfill structure, rising 110.5 m above stream-bed,
with a crest length of about 920 m. It would provide a reservoir with a



- 6 -
storage ccpoPcity of 3,035 Mm3. Diversion of the river during construction would
be throuEh r' tunnel in the left abutment. Tne upstream end of the tunnel would
be plugged upon completicn of the dam embankment, and a gnted crest spillTay
with an inclined tunnel chute would utilize the downstream portion of the tunnel
for spillway discharge. Naximum spillway discharge capacity would be 1,960   /
sec which, together with the surcharge storage space, would be adequate to pass
the inflow design flood of a peak of 12,000 m3/sec and a 6.5 day volume of
1,6L6 Wm.
4.03      The irrigation outlet would be through a tunnel whose actual size
would be determined during the preparation of detailed designs for the dam.
Irrigation releases would be controlled by hollow jet valves issuing into a
stilling basin below the dam. Emergency gates would be installed in-gate
chambers located near the axis of the dam. A 37 km long, 69 KV wood-pole
transmission line would be installed to provide construction power to the dam
site. An existing unimproved road would be replaced with a modern improved
highway and a bridge crossing the Pampanga River to provide access to the dam
site.
).04      A new irrigation system for some 31,000 ha would be built under the
project.  Work on the distribution system for about 12,000 ha out of this total
started in 1967 by the NIA has been completed.  These works would not be
included in the proposed loan. However, additional works required to upgrade the
system would be constructed and financed under the loan. Sufficient checks and
structures would be installed in the system to enable close control of water
delivery to each field.  The system would deliver water down to a 10 ha unit, fror
which point delivery to individual holdings would be through farm ditches.- Vork
on the 19,000 ha yet to be constructed includes: canals, laterals and sub-
laterals, together with structures; farm ditches and gate controlled turnouts;
drainage canals; and associated works. All canals in the system, wlith the
exception of certain reaches of the main canals. would be unlined.
4.05      Two main canals would supply the new lands, as well as supplementing
the supply to existing irrigated lands. Construction work on one of these
canals, Diversion Canal No, 2, has recently been completed by the NIA with the
exception of roadwTay surfacing along the canal banks, installation of gates
and concrete lining in certain reaches. Remaining work on this canal would be
carried out by contract and is included in the proposed loan. The other canal,
Diversion Canal No. 1, would be about 26 km long and serve 25,000 ha of neo
lands. Its construction would involve earthwork, a siphon at the Talavera River
crossing, checks and structures and maintenanceeroads along both banks.
4.06      The existing Rizal and Panpanga-Bongabon Diversion dam would be
modified as part of the new irrigation works. These modifications include
heightening of the overflow crest so as to increase diversion capacity and
widening of the existing main canals for a length of about 3.1 km.
1.07      The existing irrigation systems in the area, serving about L6,000 ha,
would be rehabilitated and improved so as to bring them up to the standards set
for the new systems. W[ork to be carried out on these systems includes the
repair of existing canals and structures and construction of sub-laterals,
structures, farm ditches and turnouts, drainage canals and associated works.
Upon completion of the works, the system would be capable of delivering 1.5
liters per second per ha which would be sufficient to meet peak paddy demands
for irrigation water.



-7-
4.08     All weather gravelled roads for operation and maintenance would be
constructed along the main canals.  In addition, feeder roads would be constructed
along laterals and sub-laterals, mainly with excavation spoil from the canals,
so as to achieve a road density of one kilometer per 75 ha. The roads would be
of minimum standard with a roadway section of about 3.5 m and a 15 cm surface
of selected borrow. Total length of the roads would be about 1,000 km.
4.09      Three operation and maintenance district offices would be constructed
in the project area to serve the irrigation systems. In addition, a permanent
project headquarters and a central repair shop would be constructed at Cabanatuan.
Water Supply and Demand
4.10      The project Twould derive its main water supply from the Pampanga River
regulated by storage at Pantabangan Reservoir. Records of stream flow on Pampanga
River are available from 1959 through 1965.  An estimate of flows for the period
19)49 to 1959 were obtained by correlation with recorded flows on the Agno and
Talavera Rivers.  On the basis of these records and available rainfall data, a
gfairly reliable estimate was obtained for the river discharge over a 17 year
period. The average annual stream flow for the period under review is estimated
to be 1,388 iin3.
4.11      Unregulated flows from two major tributaries entering the Pampanga
River below the dam, but above the existing Pampanga-Bongabon Diversion Damr, and
from the Talavera River, would also be available for project use.  The  quality
of water from these rivers and Pampanga is uniformly excellent for irrigation use
with all samples analyzed showing less than 300 ppm of dissolved solids.
4.12      Water requirements for the project were based on two crops of paddy in
each calendar year. Taking into account conveyance losses and effective rainfall,
annual diversion requirements for irrigation water were taken to average 2.0 m
in depth for two paddy crops. In determining the operation of Pantabangan
Reservoir and judging the adequacy of the water supply, water requirements were
computed on a monthly basis using actual rainfall records and consumptive use to
estimate residual water requirements to be supplied by irrigation. Monthly
irrigation requirements and the flow of the Pampanga River were used in a reser-
voir study over the 17 years of hydrologic records. Water releases assumed in
the study included requirements for firm power generation of 20 MW at 30% plant
factor (7.2 hours daily). On the basis of theseassumptions, the project could
provide a dependable water supply for paddy cultivation of 77,000 ha in the wet
season and 72,000 ha in the dry season. Actual water releases for power would
depend upon the findings of a power study being conducted by the National Power
Corporation and their consultants (for details see para b.20).
4.13      Should power be excluded from the project, or if it is developed on the
basis dictated by irrigation releases only, the available water supply would be
adequate to meet the demand of a further 5,000 ha during the dry season. Expans-
ion of the irrigable area during the dry season, however, would have to take
place in areas adjacent to the project where sufficient lands are available. Such
a move is dictated by the fact that about 5,000 ha of the existing irrigation
system to be rehabilitated under the project could not be served by gravity from
Pantabangan dam. This area is situated above Diversion Canal No. 1 and would
only be served during the wet season out of the Talavera River (see Map).
4.14      Irrigation water demands, both with or without power, could be
adequately met with only minor shortages occurring with a frequency of about one
in ten years. Shortages of this frequency and magnitude are acceptable. Further
details of water supply and demand are provided in Annex 3.



-8-
1J.15       Riglhts on all the project's water supply are currently in the
hands of the National Power Corporation. Assurances have been obtained that
the necessary water rights would be granted to the NIA and that no private
water rights which could adversely affect the project's water supply would
be granted.
Status of Engineering
1.16        Feasibility studies for Pantabangan Dam and Reservoir, together
with preliminary design drawings and quantity estimates, were prepared by the
US Bureau of Reclamation (USBR). Sufficient drilling and exploratory work
were carried out to determine the suitability of the site from an engineering
and geologic standpoint and to ensure the availability of materials for
construction of an earth and rockfill dam. Studies of the irrigation and
drainage systems, both for the new areas and those to be rehabilitated, were
made by the NIAo  Surveyed traverse lines were rtm for the new main canals
on wLich structures were located and from which excavation and embankment
quantities have been computed. The lateral and sub-lateral distribution
system and the drainage and roads networks were estimated on a unit length
or per hecbare basis from previous experience by the NIA.
41.17       The NIA has done considerable work in constructing irrigation
distribution systems, but lacks experience in major dam design and con-
struction.  They wrould, however, receive assistance from the technical staff
of the Nationel Poler Corporation and the Bureau of Public lJorks, who have
more experience in this field. Arrangements for technical assistance from
these agencies would be made under the auspices of the project's coordinating
committee (see para 6.06).  In addition, consultants would be engaged to
prepare final designs and tender documents, to supervise construction and
to certify payment documents for all civil works.  thile the consultants
would have final responsibility for all these aspects, much of the design
and field work for the irrigation netwfork would be carried out by NIA's
engineers and technicians.  The NIA has agreed to engage a consulting en-
gineering firm satisfactory to the Bank as outlined above and on terms and
conditions to be approved by the Bank.
4.18        Several modifications of the dam design presented in the feasi-
bility study lhave been proposed by the Government in an effort to reduce pro-
ject costs. These proposals, however, have not been worked out in sufficient
detail to evaluate their merit at this time. Further review of the proposed
changes would be undertaken by the consultants during the preparation of de-
tailed design. Should any special problems related to design criteria arise
at that stage, the NIA has agreed that either they or the Bank may call for
the appointment of a Review Board consisting of three experts acceptable to
the Bank to review the basic design and criteria adopted by the consultants for
Pantabangan Dam and to advise as needed on special problems which might de-
velop during construction.



-9-
Future Powrer Development
4.19        Benefits from power installations at Pantabangan Dam would depend
upon its joint operation with other existing hydroelectric plants in the
country. For this purpose, the Bank recommended to the Government in September
1968 that a study be carried out to determine the benefits from the joint ope-
ration of Pantabangan irith the Ambuklao/Binga and Angat Reservoirs. The study
has been carried out by the National Power Corporation with the assistance
of their consultants, Gilbert Associates of the USA. The findings of this
study were somewhat inconclusive and the National Power Corporation has there-
fore suggested that a feasibility study should nou be prepared by the con-
sultants wqho wnould prepare the detailed design of the Pantabangan Dam. This
feas-bility study would be completed before the final designs are ready so
that the necessary provisions for power could be incorporated in the designs
before the tender documents would be issued. The foreign exchange costs of
the study are estimated to be about $100,000 and this amount has been included
in the loan.
Flood Control
4.20        There are two sources of floods in the project area.  One is the
heavy rainfall over the relatively flat lands and the second is the run-off
from the mountain areas above Pantabangan Dam. In order to control the latter
floods in the project area, as well as to help ease the extent of floods fur-
ther on downstream, the project includes provisions for flood control. For
this purpose, the design of Pantabangan Dam includes an allocation of 486 Mm3
of reservoir space to flood control. Annual flood control benefits are esti-
mated to be US$ 500,000 and justify the cost of US$ 2.5 million associated
with this aspect of the project.
Cost Estimates
4.21        Quantity estimates for Pantabangan Dam and Reservoir are based
on the USBR feasibility design. Unit prices incurred during construction of
the Angat Dam three years ago adjusted to reflect present day cost levels were
I            applied to these quantities.  Quantity estimates for modification of the
existing diversion dams, irrigation and drainage systems and feeder roads are
based on surveys and preliminary drawsings which are adequate for cost estimate
purposes.  Unit prices were based on NIAt's recent experience with similar
works elsewhere in the Philippines. Unit costs for equipment, material and
supplies are based upon current quotations received by NIA. The estimates
include the cost of engineering and management consulting services, super-
vision and overhead.  A 20% contingency factor was applied to all cost es-
timates. Interest during construction on the proposed Bank loan is also
included in the estimates. Foreign exchange requirements were based on bids
for construction of the Angat Dam and a detailed breakdown of the equipment,
materials and supplies required for the project. The cost estimates and
foreign exchange requirements are reasonable. Details of tlhe estimates are
presented in Annex 4 and are summarized below:



- 10 -
P (millions)            US$ (millions)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Pantabangan Dam and Reservoir      64.14    53.8  118.2     16.5    13.8    30.3
Irrigation System and Roads        L!2.1   28.5    70.6     10.8      7.3    18.1
Operation and I4aintenance
Equipment                         0.8     5.8     6.6      0.2     1.5      1.7
Consulting Services                 1.2     5.8     7.0      0.3      1.5     1.8
Sub-total                   108.5    93.9   202.       27.8   2L.1   51.9
Contingencies about 20%       22.2    19.1    41.3      5.7      4.9    10.6
Total Investment Cost       130.7  113.0  2L3.7        33.5    29.0   62.5
Interest During Construction
D 7.0= -   _19.5    19.5                                    -      5.0      5.0
TOTAL Project Cost          130.7   132.5  263.2       33.5    3b.0    67.5
Procurement and Disbursement
4.22        Construction of Pantabangan Dam, the new irrigation systems,
project facilities, feeder and operation and maintenance roads as well as
modifications of the existing diversion dams would be done by contracts to
be awiarded on the basis of international competitive bidding. A single con-
tract is expected to be awarded for construction of the dan and about three
for the irrigation works. Rehabilitation wffork on the existing irrigation
system, and the construction of farm ditches throughout the area and an access
road to the dam which do not lend themselves to international competitive
bidding, would be carried out as force account work by the NIA. The esti-
mated cost of these works is US$ 6.0 million.  However, the necessary equip-
ment, materials and supplies for these works, as well as operation and main-
tenance equipment, would be purchased following international competitive
bidding procedures. A detailed list of these items is presented in Annex 5.
v.23        Disbursements out of the loan for civil works contracts to be
awarded to non-Filipino contractors and for consulting services would be made
against foreign exchange payments. All disbursements for civil works con-
tracts which would be awarded to local contractors and for force account work
would be made on a percentage basis. For equipment, materials and supplies,
disbursements would be made upon presentation of suppliers invoices and evi-
dence of shipmnent to the Philippines against their CIF cost or if the success-
ful bidder should be a local supplier disbursements would be made following
the presentatGion of import documents for the CIF cost of the imported com-
ponents utilized in manufacturing the goods.
L.21        Several lars in the Philippines prohibit international competitive
bidding on civil works and equipment.  Furthermore, one of the laws specifies



- 11 -
that for the purpose of bid analysis on equipment, all custom duties should
be added to the foreign bid in addition to a 15% preference margin for local
suppliers. Waiver of the restrictive provisions of these laws which required
legislation by Congress was obtained prior to negotiations.   Special
legislation was passed by. Congress in June 1969.    According to
the provisions of the Act and as agreed during negotiations, equipment and
materials for the project would be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in which Filipino suppliers could participate with a
preference allowance of 15%. The evaluation of bids for such procurement
would be made after deducting from bids submitted by non-Filipino bidders
customs duties and any other taxes due on the imported goods. No preference
would be granted to Filipino contractors on civil works contracts. Agreement
was also reached that any contract for the procurement of imported equipment,
materials and supplies not exceeding US$ 10,000 would be exempted from inter-
national competitive bidding, provided that the aggregate of all such contracts
shall not exceed US$ 100,000.
Financing
4.25       The proposed Bank loan of US$ 34 million (P 132.5 million) would
cover the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project consisting of pay-
ments for civil works, imported equipment materials and supplies, consulting
services and interest on the loan during the construction period. The loan
would represent approximately 50% of the total project cost. It has been
agreed that expenditures incurred on the project prior to signing of the loan
agreement but after April 30, 1969, would be reimbursable under the loan.
Total withdrawals from the loan account for these expenditures would not
exceed US$ 200,000.
1..26      Expenditures for the construction of the project, including dis-
bursement of the proposed Bank loan, would be approximately as follows:
Fiscal Years ending  Frior to
June 30 of             Loan    1970  1971  1972  1973  1974  1975  Total
-       ---       --US  illions.-----        
Government Contribu-
tion                 1.2      1.4   4.1  5.0    8.2   8.8   4.8   33.5
IBRD Loan               -       1.0   4.4  5.8    7.1   8.7   7.0   34.0
TOTAL                  1.2      2.4   T. 1075  1i3  17.7  la-l7   77.T
4.27       Local currency requirements for the project estimated at P 131
million (US$ 33.5 million) would be provided by the Government through one
or all of the followqing sources: sale of NIA bonds; sale of Government Bonds;
and releases out of general revenues.
4.28       The Act creating the NIA specifies that the agency's working
capital should be P 300 million (US$ 77 million), to be subscribed and paid
by the Government through bonds to be floated by the Central Bank, which shall
deliver annually to the NIA the sum of P 30 million (US$ 7.7 million) until
its whole capital stock is fully paid up. Meeting the entire local currency



- 12 -
requirement for the project out of this source as proposed by the Government
would present several problems. First, under NIA's present ceiling of P 300
million, only some P 180 million (US$ 46.2 million) remain unsubscribed and,
therefore, relying exclusively on this source to finance the project, would
seriously hamper NIA's operations in other parts of the country. Second,
annual capital releases to the NIA are limited to P 30 million (US$ 7.7 mil-
lion), compared with up to P 34 million (US$ 8.8 million) annual local cur-
rency requirements for the project. Third, although the NIA has previously
used the funds it received from Government for capital investment, the Act
does not specifically authorize it to do so.
4.29        Sale of Government Bonds is another source of funds for the pro-
ject.  Subject to Congressional authorization, the Government can float bonds
to finance various development projects.  These bonds, as well as the NIA bonds
and those of various other Government agencies and public corporations in the
Philippines, are usually bought by the Central Bank, the Government Service
Insurance System, the Social Security System, the Development Bank of the
Philippines and commercial banks. However, the amount of bonds purchased
annually by these institutions falls short of the amount offered for sale.
With several agencies attempting to sell bonds in a limited market, there is
no guarantee that a sufficient amount of bonds could be sold annually to
meet the project requirements.
1,.30       Congressional legislation appropriating funds for the project out
of general Government revenues is the third source for financing the local
curreincy requirements of the project.  However, in the past, Government re-
venues fell far short of annual appropriations and consequently development
projects suffered from inadequate funding. To ensure adequate funding for
the project, the Government was requested to obtain the necessary authoriza-
tion to finance the local currency portion of the project through the sale
of Goverrnent Bonds and releases out of general revenues.  Passage of legis-
lation to accomplish this was obtained prior to nagot!=tLnsQ
1.31        In order to ensure the continuous and timely flow of funds for
the project, assurances were obtained during negotiations that a special fund
would be set up prior to the signing of the loan, for the project into which
the Government would deposit every month the local currency requirements for
the next three months' period. The present estimates for local currency
requirements in each fiscal year are presented in para L!.26.
Auditing of Accounts
1.32        The NIA is a Government agency and, as such, its accounts are
audited annually by the Government's Corporate Auditor's Office. Assurances
were obtained that NIA would engage consultants to assist them in setting up
a cost accounting system for the project, that it would maintain separate
accounts for the project which would be audited by the Government's Corporate
Auditor's Office and submit the auditor's annual report to the Bank along
with a certified copy of NIA's financial statement within four months after
the end of the fiscal year.



- 13 -
V. AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMEIT
Present Conditions
5.01        Most of the project area now produces only one crop of rice per
year, about 7,000 ha are planted to a second crop. Some machinery is used
in preparation of the rice fields, but most operations are performed with
draft animals.  The crop is harvested at the end of the rainy season when
substantial losses are incurred due to a lack of dryers.
5.02        Present production in the project area is mainly from traditional
unimproved rice varieties. However, in the last tvwo years, since seed of
the high yielding varieties, principally IR8, has become readily available,
parts of the area are planted with the new varieties. Overall yields, how-
ever, are still laf ranging from about 28 cavans (1.2 m ton) per ha on rainfed
S            lands to b0 cavans (1.8 m ton) per ha on the partially irrigated.  Total
annual paddy production from the project area is presently around 130,000 m ton.
EiMpected Yields and Production
5.03        About 20,000 ha of project lands appear suitable for groTwing
crops other than rice and may ultimately be more beneficially used for cul-
tivation of other crops. However, until there is a demonstrated market for
such crops, all of the project area would be devoted to multiple cropping of
rice. In order to identify the exact location and suitability of these soils
for the production of crops other than rice, the Government has agreed that
the NIA would prepare, with the assistance of consultants, a land classifi-
cation of the project area in order to delineate those lands suitable only
for paddy and those which can be used also for cultivation of other crops
anid to determine their characteristics and best ultimate use.
5 .Ob       Completion of the project's distribution system would coincide
wrlth the end of construction of Pantabangan Dam. Since the area is already
partially irrigated it is expected that within three years after water becomes
available for irrigation in the dry season, the entire dry season project
area of 72,000 ha would be planted to a second crop. With the better irrigation
system, control of water and the application of complementary inputs required
by the improved varieties, yields are projected to increase gradually to the
level of 87 cavans (3.8 m ton) per ha per crop. Total production from two
crops of paddy in each calendar year from the project area at full develop-
ment would be about 570,000 m ton, or roughly four times the present level.
5.05        Transformation of the present production levels into those pro-
jected in this report is expected to occur gradually following the intro-
duction of the high yielding varieties in any given area. The entire project
area is expected to be planted to the high yielding varieties by the tenth
year of the project.  Given the emphasis on continuation of rice as the main
crop, and the availability of new high yielding varieties, it would be possible
to develop even a higher level of production than is projected, provided an
accelerated program for the expansion of extension, storage, marketing, credit



- 14 -
and other agricultural services could be developed. The assured water supply
provided by the project and a general upgrading of cultivation practices,
would also lead to a concurrent increase in production costs. This would
be due largely to more intensive use of fertilizers, insecticides and im-
proved seed all of whzich are readily available to farmers through commercial
channels in the project area. Details of yields, cost and returns are pre-
sented in Annex 6.
5.o6        Farmers in the project area employ larege numbers of hired labor
for land preparation, transplanting, weeding, harvesting and threshing. There
is an abundant supply of farm labor in the area to meet the requirements of
double cropping cultivation. Upon completion of the project, production costs
in the area are expected to increase gradually from the present level of P 350
to P 7h5 per ha per crop.  This increase would be associated with the more
than doubling of rice yields and more than a five fold increase in the farmer's
net income (see Annex 6).
Store and  arketing
5.07        The Central Luzon Plain is considered to be the rice bowl of the
Philippines and has long been a net exporter of rice. Thuch of the surplus
produc-tion from the region is shipped to Manila which is a major consumption
center. Surplus production from the project area is also expected to be
shipped to Manila with which it has good rail and highway connections.
5.08        Farmers in the project area can sell their crops to private
buyers, millers or the Rice and Corn Administration (RCA) wxhich is a govern-
ment agency created with the main purpose of stabilizing the price of rice
and corn to the farmer. The RCA has mdlling and storage facilities throughout
the country which are sufficient to handle between 10% and 15% of the rice
marketed in the Philippines. This should suffice to maintain the average
paddy price to the farmer at a level of about P 15 per cavan (USc 87.4 per
n,n ton) which compares favorably Tith the projected world market price for rice.
5.09        About 200 warehouses are located in the project area with an
aggregate capacity of more thmn five million cavans (220,000 m ton). tiith
more than half of the paddy production reaching market channels, present
facilities can adequately handle production from the project until the con-
struction works are completed.  However, some of the rice produced in the
Cagayan Valley is stored in Nueva Ecija and eventual regional increases in
production would strain existing facilities by 197h. A storage study pre-
pared for the Government by consultants, Weitz-Hettelsater Engineers of the
U.S.A., in June, 1968, recommends the construction of additional bulk silos
in the project area between 1972 and 1975. The Government has submitted a
request to the Bank for financial assistance in implementing the consultant's
recommendations for additional storage facilities to be constructed by 1970
in neighboring provinces and elsewhere in the country.  It has also obtained
a US$ 4.0 million loan from the US Export-Irport Bank of which at least
US$ 1.0 million would be used to finance the expansion of storage and milling
facilities.



- 15 -
5.10        There are sone 160 private rice mills in the project area with
a total milling capacity per 12-hour day of approximately 23,000 cavans
(equivalent to 300,000 m ton per annum). However, about half of the mills
are primitive and have a low milling recovery rate. As production from the
project area increases, the existing rice mills would be insufficient to meet
the milling demands. The introduction of additional milling facilities would
be undertaken by the private sector which has been responsive to the needs of
the area in the past. Aside from the need to improve and expand the milling
capacity in the a-rea, there is also an urgent need to introduce mechanical
driers.
5.11        The number of mechanical driers in use throughout the Philippines
is limited and the bulk of production is being sun-dried. However, with the
introduction of early maturing and high yielding varieties, sun-drying of
paddy during the wet season on a large scale will not be feasible.  This fact
has been recognized by the Government which is promoting the installation of
mechanical driers. Credit is currently being made available through banking
institutions for the purchase of driers and the needs of the project area
would be met through the expansion of drying facilities by the private sector.
VI. ORGAIZATION AND IANAGMMT
The National Irrigation Administration
6.01        Responsibility for the 300,000 ha of natianal irrigation systems
in the Philippines was in the hands of the irrigation division of the Bureau
of Public W4orks up to 196L. At that time, in an effort to accelerate irri-
gation development in the country, tlhe Government separated the irrigation
branch from the Bureau and set iLt up as the National Irrigation Administration
(NIA). The functions of the NIA are to investigate, study, improve, construct
and administer all national irrigation systems in the country. Its financial
requirements are met by the Government through the sale of bonds. Overall
responsibility or the agency is vested in a Board of Directors composed of
seven members with the Secretary of Public TWiorks and Communication acting as
chairman. Management of the agency's affairs and business is in the hands
of the Irrigation Administrator. Appointment of the Administrator is in the
hands of the Board subject to the approval of the President of the Philip-
pines (for further details see Annex 7). It has been agreed that during the
disbursement period of the loan and five years thereafter, the Board of NIA
would consult w;ith the Bank sufficiently in advance, of amy appointment so
that the Banlk could conment on the suitability of the nominee.
6.02        Although the NIA is staffed with competent personnel and has re-
cently completed successfully tihe rehabilitation of 32,000 ha on the Angat
Proiect and the construction of a new system on 12,000 ha in the Pampanga
project area, the agency is hampered by several problems. First and foremost
among thesc is the shortage of operating funds. This problem has been sorne-
what alleviated by the recent US$ L.7 million equipment loan from the USAID
wrhich would enable NIA to better maintain the existing systems, and by the



- 16 -
increase in irrigation fees (see para 7.03).  The other problems relate to
manageinent of equipment, billing and collection of irrigation fees, project
reporting systems, the internal organization structure of the agency and
its financial management. These shortcomings were highlighted in a 1967
report to the Government prepared by a local management consultant firm,
Sycip, Gorres, Velayo and Company.
6.03        Several of the recommendations made by the management consultants
are now being implemented by the NIA. Houever, many of the recommendations
were only prelLminary and did not present detailed programs for implementation.
The preparation and implementation of such programs would now be undertaken
in two phases.  The first phase would take about six months to accomplish and
would outline in detail the actlon and programs required to correct the prob-
lems identified earlier by the consultants. After consultation between the
Banl and NIA, the recommended programs would be implemented under phase two
of the study.  This phase is expected to be accomplished over a two-year
period*. The NIA has agreed to employ a suitably qualified management con-
sultant finn acceptable to the Bank to carry out the study as outlined and,
after consultation with the Bank, to take all necessary actions to implement
the recommended and agreed programs.
Construction
6.oL        The .IIA would be the executing agency for the planning, design,
construction and operation and maintenance of all project works.  It would
also be responsible for collecting wzater charges. An engineering consulting
firm w-ould be engaged by NIA to assist them in all the civil wrorks phases of
the project.  The consultants would rmake maximum use of NIA personnel, espe-
cially in the designs of the distribution system, but would have final respon-
sibility for technical adequacy of designs and supervision of construction
and would certify applications for withdrawal from the loan account. With
the assistance of these consultants, LNIA should be able to implement success-
5            fully all the works on the project.
6.05        The organizational arrangement for discharging the construction
responsibility is shonn in chart form in Annex 7. A Project Manager has
been appointed by the Irrigation Administrator to have direct responsibility
for all actions concerned with construction of the project. He would be
assis-ted by two Assistant Project Mianagers concerned with field and office
activities.
6.o6        General coordination of project activities between government
agencies would be achieved through the Upper Pampanga River Project Coordi-
nating Committee, established under a Presidential Administrative Order.
The Administrator of the NIlA serves as chairman of the Committee whose members
are:  the General Manager of the National Power Corporation, the Director,
Bureau of Public Works, and a representative of the Rice and Corn Production
Coordinating Council (RCPCC). Agricultural activities related to the project
such as extension, credit and marketing are coordinated through the RCPCC



- 17 -
representative. The Committee's Joint Technical Staff, comprising senior
technicians of the participating agencies would render technical assistance
to the NIA at the request of the Committee as and when necessary. Decisions
of the Committee would be relayed to the Project I4anager through the direct
authority exercised by the Administrator of the NIA.
Operation and MIaintenance
6.07        The NIA would be responsible for operating and maintaining the
project.  The organization chart is shown in Annex 7.  The Project Manager
would have his headquarters at Cabanatuan City and from that location direct
all opera-ion and maintenance activities for Pantabangan Dam and the irri-
gated area. The irrigated lands would be divided into three districts with
district headquarters located at Santa Rosa, San Jose and Talavera. Each
district would have adCinistrative, equipment and road maintenance sections.
S            Operation of the irrigation system would be further subdivided into zones,
divisions and sections, with ditch :iders responsible for distribution of
water to each section of about 400 ha.  A central equipment mnaintenance shop
for major overhauls -iould be established at Cabanatuan City.
Technical Assistance, Services and Credit to Farmers
6.08        Research. The Maligaya Rice Research and Training Center located
in the project area would provide the necessary research facilities to the
project. It w-ould also serve as a training center for extension service
workers. The Center is carrying out research activites on rice in the fol-
lowing fields: plant breeding; cultivation requirements; fertilizer and soil
management practices; irrigation and drainage requirements; pest contrd2 and
storage and processing. It also conducts experiments with cotton, soybean
and wheat. Several experirmients on rice and fertilizers are undertaken in
cooperation with the International Rice Research Institute, the Philippine
Atomic Energy Commission and the United Nations Special Fund. The Center
would be able to provide nll necessary research facilities to the project.
6.og        Extension.  Several Government agencies provide extension services
in the area under the supervision and coordination of the Agricultural Pro-
ductivity Commission (AEC). The principal extension workers in the area
are the farm management technicians, the home management technicians and the
cooperative officers. Presently there are about 50 extension workers in
the area. In conjunction with the land reform progran and the introduction
of double cropping, this number would be gradually increased so that by 1975,
whlen construction work on the project is completed, there would be about 390
extension workers in the area.  Out of this total about 200 would be farm
management teclhncians, each covering about 380 ha.  In addition, there would
be one supervisor for every 10 farm mnagement technicians. This number,
which could be easily recruited from among the graduates of the numerous
agricultural colleges in the country, would be adequate to meet the needs
of bhe area. Budget requirements for personel and operations of the ex-
tension services which is currently about P 220,000 annually, is projected
to increase to around P 1.8 million by 1975 and would be provided by the APC



- 18 -
out of its budgetary appropriations. The Government has agreed that the
necessary personnel and budget requirements for the extension services would
be made available to the project.
6.10        Credit.  Introduction of high yielding varieties and new cultiva-
tion techniques would require a large increase in short term (production),
medium and long-term credit. There are sufficient credit institutions in
the) area to meet the expected increase demand for credit. The major sources
of agricultural credit in the area are the Rural Banks followed by the Phil-
ippines National Bank, the Development Bank of the Philippines, the Agri-
cultural Credit Administration and about 33 private local banks. Eight out
of the 13 Rural Banks in the area participate in the IBRD Rural CGredit Pro-
ject (432-PH), for which a second loan (607-PH) has recently been signed.
These loans provide funds to select rural banks through the Central Bank for
medium and long-term loans to agricultural producers.  By augmenting the
rural banks' lending capacity for medium and long-term loans, the Rural
Credit Project also enables these banks to devote more of their own funds
for short-term production credit as well as utilizing substantial discount
facilities with the Central Bank.
6.I1        The total of all types of agricultural loans granted by the
various banks in the area amounted to about P 50 million (US$ 12.8 million)
in 1967. In addition, a considerable amount of credit was extended by other
sources such as landlords, farm input dealers, marketing and processing
firms and private money lenders. Upon completion of the project, production
credit requirements in the area for two crops of paddy are expected to amount
to about P 60 million (Us$ 15.4 million) annually.  The existing credit
institutions in the area would be able to meet this need.
VII. FINANCIAL RESULTS
Operation and M4aintenance Costs
7.01        Operation and maintenance cost estimates have been based on
actual expenditures experienced on the Angat Project, a similar type of
project in Central Luzon, adjusted upwards to reflect the level of opera-
tions and maintenance efficiency assumed for the project. Annual operation
-            and maintenance costs on the project would amount to about P 08.0 (US$ 12.3)
per ha. Operation and maintenance work on the existing irrigation systems
in the area are generally inadequate due to lack of equipment and shortage
of funds. Since the rehabilitation works on these systems would incorporate
deferred maintenance, no attempt would be made to intensify maintenance work
on these systems until the rehabilitation works are completed. Operation
and maintenance activities on the neTf irrigation areas would commence upon
completion of each system. The entire project system is expected to become
operational in 1975. Annual expenditures, including the cost of operating
Pantabangan Dam and Reservoir allocated to irrigation, are estimated to
be as follows:



- 19 -
Calendar Year              1970-1972     1973      1974     1975
Cost in P millions             0.9        1.8       2.7      3.7
US$ '000 equivalent            230        b60       690      950
Water Charges
7.02        The NIA has the necessary powers to collect from the users of
each irrigation system constructed by it such fees as may be necessary to
finance the continuous operation of the system and to recover the construc-
tion cost thereof. Presently, all such collections are paid into the Govern-
ment general revenues fund. Under the project, however, NIA would retain
for use on the project that portion of the irrigation fees collected by it
S             rwhich is necessary to cover actual operation and maintenance costs.  This
arrangement is required by the Congressional Act under which the Government
would borrow funds for the project from the Bank.
7.03        Irrigation fees presently charged by NIA on paddy lands amount
to P 25 per ha for the wet season crop and P 35 per ha for the dry season
crop. Collections, however, fall far short of assessments. Since annual
Government allocations to NIA for operation and maintenance activities are
directly related to water charges collections, failure to collect water
charges has brought about a serious deterioration in NIA's irrigation sys-
tems. The poor collection record of the NIA is partly due to an inadequate
collection system. In order to improve collections, the management con-
sultant firm which would be employed to review NIA's operations (see para
6.03), would also help install an updated billing and collection system.
7.Ob        The NIA has recently increased its irrigation fees on double
cropped paddy lands from P 12 to p 60 per ha per annum. This rate would
be adequate to cover all operation and maintenance costs on the project but
would contribute little toward capital recovery.  In order to recover the
total investment cost of the project including interest during construction
over a 50-year period, irrigation fees would have to be gradually increased
from the present annual level of P 60 per ha to P 150 (US$ 38.5) per ha
within ten years after completion of the project. In view of the substantial
increase in farmers' income which would result from the project, such a
charge would not be unduly high and could be met by farmers. To ensure sound
operation and maintenance practices on the project as well as equitable con-
tribution by benefiting farmers toward recovery of the capital cost of the
project, the Government has agreed that:
(a) should the irrigation fees collected by NIA in the project
area fall short of the amount required for the operation
and maintenance thereof, it would provide NIA with the
nccessery supplenentary funds.  It is currently estimnted
th<t total annual oxpenditurcas for operntion -nd maintenance
on the project wTould be P 3.7 million 0USs 950,000) starting
in 1975.



- 20 -
(b) ENIA would gradually increase the level of irrigation fees
to recover as much as practicable of the capital cost of
the project, taking into account farmers' incentives and
capacity to pay. In order to recover all capital costs
including interest during construction over a 50-year
period, it is presently estimated that irrigation fees
would have to be gradually increased to about P 100
(US$ 25.6) per ha within five years after completion
of the project and to P 150 (USs 38.5) within ten
years after completion of the project; and
(c) NIA wiould take all the necessary actions to ensure full
and prompt collections of the irrigation fees.
Farmers' Income
7.05        All farm labor requirements - family and hired - have been
costed at market values.  WTith an average farm size of 3.2 ha of irrigated
land, current annual net returns to a farming family from a single crop of
paddy after deducting all production costs, water charges and land rent,
amount to about P 330 (US$ 86). Net returns in the rainfed areas are sub-
stantially lower. By comparison with present returns, earnings from two
crops of rice on a similar farming unit at full agricultural development,
assuming water rates of P 150 per ha, would amount to about P 2,160 (US$ 555).
For details see Annex 6. This would represent a substantial increase in
farmners' income and should provide them with adequate incentives.
VIII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
8.01        Upon completion the project would enable farmers to produce two
crops of irrigated paddy in an area where production is currently limited to
one crop a year under partial irrigation or rainfed conditions. The avail-
ability of a secured regulated water supply and better flood protection
would permit farmers to use more inputs and to adopt the new high yielding
rice varieties on an economical basis.
8.02        Based on recent projections by the Philippines Government, the
country's population in 1980 is expected to be around 54 million. Per capita
cereal consumption in the Philippines, as well as the share of rice in this
total, has undergone little change during the past 30 years. Thus, using
the national average per capita consumption of rice of 83 kg per year for
the period 1909-196L as a base, demand for rice in 1980 wiould be approximately
b.5 million m ton. Assuming a 65% milling efficiency rate, this would re-
present a paddy demand of 6.9 million m ton, compared with the present
annual output of ),.2 million m ton. Thus, unless the drive to expand pro-
duction is continued, the country would have to import large quantities of
rice in the years ahead.



- 21 -
8.03        The major benefits to be derived from the project would be in-
creased paddy production wJhich would help the Government to meet the expected
increased demand without resorting to imports. For the purpose of economic
analysis it was, therefore, assumed that the h0,000 m ton of incremental
paddy production from the project area would serve as import substitution.
The value of production from the project area was calculated on the basis of
a future price equivalent for rice of US$ 126 m ton in the project areal/
Using the projected rice price, gross foreign exchange savings through the
project at full development would amount to about US$ 36.5 million annually
compared tsith an initial foreign exchange investment excluding interest, of
US$ 29 million. This total is exclusive of necessary foreign exchange out-
lays for farm inputs.
8.04        All farm labor requirements - whether family or hired - have been
treated as production cost. Yield projections of 3.8 m ton per crop per ha
used in the analysis are substantially below the potential of the high yield-
ing varieties and could be exceeded should farmers use more inputs than
were projected in this report.
8.05        At full development, 13 years after completion of all project
works, the annual gross value of incremental production is estimated at
P lbO million (US$ 36 million). The increase in the net value of production
after deducting all incremental production and operation and maintenance costs,
would be about P 55.8 million (US$ 14.3 million). No benefits were credited
to the project in this analysis from power generation or crops with higher
return than rice. Also, cautious assumpt-ions were adopted for future rice
prices, yields and the rate of agricultural development. When discounting
the benefits over the 50-year life of the project, the rate of return to
the economy would exceed 13% (for further details see Annex 8).
IX. CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01        The project would be multipurpose with primary benefits accruing
to irrigation. Upon completion, the project would provide a dependable
mater supply for year round paddy cultivation of 72,000 ha and an additional
area of 5,000 ha during the wet season only.
9.02        Overall project costs compare favorably with other projects of
this type. The cost of the distribution system is very low at around US$ 290
per ha. This, however, is partially due to the fact that all the necessary
diversion dams for the project are already in existence as is the distri-
bution system on about 60% of the area which would only require rehabilitation
and improvement. Including the cost of the proposed Pantabangan Dam and
1/ This price tqas derived from the 1961-1967 average rice import prices
(US$ 124 per m ton CIF M4anila) and world market price forecasts for 1975
(US$ 1b0 per m ton 5% broken FOB Bangkok) prepared by the Trade Policies
and Export Projections Division of the Bank's Economic Department. It
would be equivalent to about US$ 128 per m ton CIF Manila.



- 22 -
Reservoir, total investment in the project would amount to about US$ 8b0 per
ha. The National Irrigation Administration would be the executing agency.
Although the agency is relatively new and without prior experience in the
construction of major dams, it has competent personnel and with the assist-
ance of consultants should be able to implement the project successfully.
The project is technically sound and economically justified. It is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$ 3b million.  The borrower would be the Government of
the Republic of the Philippines and an appropriate term would be 25 years
including a seven-year grace period.
9.03        Prior to negotiations the Government:
(a) Passed the necessary legislation to remove the restrictive
provisions of existing laws with regard to international
competitive bidding and the procedure for comparing foreign
and local bids on equipment.
(b) Obtained the necessary authorization from Congress to finance
the local currency portion of the project through the sale of
Government Bonds and releases out of general revenues (para b.30).
9.0b.       Among others, the following assurances were obtained during
negotiations:
(a) The necessary water rights would be transferred to the NIA
and that no private water rights which could adversely affect
the project's water supply would be granted (para  .l15).
(b) A special fund would be set up, prior to the signing of the
loan, for the project into which the Government would deposit
every month the local currency requirements for the next
three months (para h.31).
July 30, 1969



PHILIPPINES: UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
1969                       1970                        1971                       1972                        1973                       1974                       1975
WORK   ITEM,                                                                                                           ,,
SEASON
WET    DRY    WET                        DRY    WET                 DRY    WET                  DRY    WET    DRY    WET                               DRY    WET                  DRY
PREPARATORY CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITPIES                                            .*.
ACJO;SS ROAD AND BRNEOGSS                                   ;                              ___________
CONSTRUCTION POWER LIIE
PANTABANGAN DAM
I} iSL;~~ND  .,SY I- RAT  B t    sAWARD    W
DESIGNS0, SPECCFTCATIOUS AN CO IAT   A
DANI FOUCOAATIOS
DAG ElNBASRENENI.-
DIKE AND SRIGE BLANIFFTIGR                                                                                                                                                                                                                 - . 
SPILLWAY AIID DIVERSIOI. TUNNEL                                                                                                                                                                             -
WATERWAY TUNNELSI_______
OUTLET WOUNS TAE OFF
ATIOXNEARY OUTLET WORKS                                                                                                                                                                                                                    -
Rh SI &  V. ER                                           . 
LANID ADD HUSHTS-
EDLOCAfT TONS                                                                                                                                                                                               -
CLKARINO OF RESERVOIRO                                                                                                                                                                                      -
IRRIGATIONT SYSTEM
NO0DIFICATION OF EXISTIU   DIVR                                                                                                                        -  AS 
CONP'LETION OUTSTANDING CONTRACTS
(A)  DIVERSION CANAL NO. 2A
(B) IRRIGATION SYSTEMI - AREA ITT
SUPPLE1NENTART WORE ON OUTSTANDOIG CONTRACTS
(A)  DIVERSION CANAL NO. 2-
(U)  IRRIGATION SYSTEm - ANYA IT -I 
DIVERSION CANAL NO. 1I
REHABILITATE L1551G. SlEET. IN AREAS I, II & IV-
NEW IRRIGATION SYSThlK - ARKA V-
PEfUlANENET PH5JT103U B  -INDGS ADM FACEITIES-
z
z
SUIUPTNONT PROGCRENCIIO Ph OAR, 
(2R)18RD-4155



AIINEX 2
Page 1
PHILIPP2IES
UPPER PA1PAVGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Description of TJorks
1.        The principal features of the project are:
(a)  Pantabangan Dam, including spillway and outlet
works, an access road and bridge, transmission
line for construction power and service facil-
ities at the dam site;
(b)  a new diversion canal and supplemental wiork on
a second diversion canal constructed in 1967
by the NIA;
(c)  a new irrigation and drainage system to serve
about 31,000 ha;
(d) modification of two existing diversion dams;
(e)  rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems
serving about L6,000 ha; and
(f)  construction of permanent project facilities.
Pantabangan Dam
2.        The Pantabangan Dam site is located in a canyon section of the
Pampanga River immediately below the junction of the Carranglan and
Pantabangan Rivers, about 10 km north of the torm of Rizal. The proposed dam
would be an earth and rockfill structure of impervious earth core and pervious
outer shell, rising ll0.5 m above streambed with a crest length of about 920 m
and a base width of about 600 m. A cut-off trench would be excavated to bed-
rock along the entire length of the dam, and the impervious core of the
dam would be carried to the bedrock level. A line of grout holes would
continue the cutoff into the foundation. Embankment volume is estimated
at 9,500,000 m3.  Along the left abutment ridge, a number of deeply
eroded ravines would be filled with compacted earth and protected by rip
rap to strengthen the abutment. Seven separate areas would be
strengthened and would involve placing an estimated 1,100,000 m3 of
material. Construction materials for the dam and blanketing would be
obtained from selected borrow areas in the vicinity of the dam site.
Impervious and semi-pervious materials in sufficient quantity were
located in the reservoir area about 3 km from the dam site. Pervious



AlNEX 2
Page 2
sands, gravels and boulders are to be obtained from gravel bars in the
river bed, both upstream and downstream from the dam site.   Suitable
rock for rip rap exists about 9 km northeast of the dam site.
Spillway and Diversion Tunnel Structure
3.        The spillway would be located through the left abutment and
consistsof an inlet control structure, an inclined shaft, and a
horizontal tunnel which would emerge at the river's edge, about 700 m
downstream from the toe of the dam.   The horizontal leg of the spill-
way tunnel would serve initially for diverting flows during construction
by extending a connecting length of the tunnel to the river upstream
from the dam.   The diversion tunnel would be plugged at its juncture
with the spillway tunnel upon completion of the dam embankment.   The
spillway inlet structure would have a fixed crest with radial gate
controls, and would connect to the horizontal tunnel by an inclined
transition tunnel.   The diameter of the spillway tunnel would be 10 m.
Two spillway gates would be provided, each 6 m wide and 12.8 m high.
The gate sill would be below the reservoir flood control space level, so
that the spillway gates would regulate releases for flood control
purposes.   The spillway discharge of 1,960 m3/ sec of maximum water
surface, together with 1,00h In3 of surcharge space, would be adequate
to pass the inflow design flood.   A flip bucket at the tunnel outlet
would dissipate the energy from the spillway discharges.
Outlet Works and Waterways
A single irrigation watenmywculd be constructed for the project.
H2eveP, .should the poucr studies indicate that a power plant at the site
is justified, theIi irrigation wztcri y would be enlargod or a second water-
way added alon- with a power penstock tunnel . If a second tunnel is to
b- 2.ddcd, its cbnstruction would be limited to ^ point dotmstreoam from a
conrrol gato inotallcd ir a shaft ncar tLe axis of the dm.  Tho remaining
length of the tuurnel lnd the penstock needed to conplete the second water-
a-.v7y wiould be constructad in conjunction with the power plant.
Access Roads
5.        Access to the left side of the site is by way of the existing
Rizal-Pantabangan unimproved road.   This road would be replaced with a
modern improved highway and a bridge crossing the Pampanga River near
Rizal.
Construction PoTnr
6.        To provide construction power at the dam site, a 37km long,
69 kv woodpole transmission line would be constructed, tapping the
existing National Power Corporation (NPC) 230 kv line at Munoz.   In



ANiEX 2
Page 3
the event that power facilities would be installed at Pantabangan, this
line would be replaced with a 230 kv steel tower transmission line, and
the 69 kvline would be salvaged and used elsewhere on the NPO power grid
sys,tem.
New Irrigation Systems
7.        New lands to be provided with an irrigation system under the
project consist of 12,000 ha in Area III and 19,300 ha in Area V (see
map).   Construction of the distribution system for Area III was
started in 1967 by the MTA and  has been completed.   Additional works
required to upgrade the system would be constructed as part of the
project.  (See Table 2).   The new systems would have a turnout for
approximately each 10 ha unit.   Delivery to individual holdings from
the turnout would be through farm ditches to be constructed by the
project.   All canals in the system, with the exception of certain
reaches of the main canals, would be unlined.   Sufficient checks and
structures are included in the system to enable close control of water
delivery which is essential for the successful production of the new
rice high yielding varieties.
Main Canals
8.        Two main canals wculd supply the new lands, as well as
supplement the supply to existing irrigated lands.   Diversion Canal No. 1
would divert from the existing Pampanga system main canal a short
distance downstream from the Rizal Diversion Dam and continue west-ward to
serve about 25,000 ha of new lands.   Its construction would involve
26 km of earthwork, 2 km of cut and cover section, a siphon at the
Talavera River crossing, canal check and turnout structures and main-
tenance roads along both banks.
S                9.        The second new main canal, Diversion Canal No. 2, diverts
from the Pampanga-Bongabon main canal, a short distance dovmstream from
the Pampanga-Bongabon Diversion Dam.   Construction of this canal was
undertaken by the NIA in 1967 and, with the exception of roadway sur-
facing, installation of gates and concrete lining in certain reaches, the
works are completed.   This canal generally parallels the right bank of
the Pampanga River and is about 42 km long.   The canal would serve
about 16,500 ha of land, including the 12,000 ha of new lands in Area III.
Remaining work on this canal would be carried out by contract to be let
after international competitive bidding and is included in the proposed
loan.
Modification of Existing Diversion Dam
10.       The main canal take-off at Rizal Diversion Dam would be
enlarged to increase its capacity from 33 m3/sec to approximately 65m3/sec.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
This would be accomplished by a 1.08 m heightening of the existing
diversion dam overflow crest in order to create additional head through
the headworks structure, and by reducing canal losses and salvaging
additional head by enlarging and lining about 1.0 km of the canal down
to its juncture with the new canal entrance.   Similar modifications
would be made at the Pamipanga-Bongabon Diversion Dam in order to
increase the diversion capacity from 3145 m3/sec to 40.5 m3/sec.   This
would be accomplished by a 0.2 m heightening of the existing diversion
dam overflow crest and by a 1.4 m widening of the main canal for a
distance of 2.4 km.
Rehabilitation and Improvement of Existing Irrigation Systems
11.       The existing NIA irrigation systems in the project area serve
about 46,000 ha and would be rehabilitated and improved to bring them
up to the standards of the new systems (see Table 2).
Project Facilities
12.       A permanent project headquarter would be constructed in
Cabanatuan City.   The headquarter would also serve as an operation
and maintenance district office and would include a central repair
shop.   Three additional operation and maintenance offices would be
set up at San Jose, Talavera and Santa Rosa in addition to an
installation at the dam site to operate the reservoir.   The various
field offices would be linked by a cnmnunication network.



AMNNEX 2
Page 5
Table 1
PHILIPP?FTrS
UPPER PA~TANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Statistical Data on PLeservoir, Dam, Spillway and Outlet Works
Reservoir:
Sediment storage                                            130 Mm3
Inactive 1/                                                 188  "
Irrigation and power J                                    1,627
Flood control                                               486  "
Sub-total                                              2,131  "
S               Surcharge                                                 1,00b
Total                                                  3,135 Mm3
Reservoir Area - at top of surcharge pool                 8,900 ha
- at top of flood control pool            6,930 ha
- at top of conservation pool             6,020 ha
at top of inactive storage               1,900 ha
Dam:
Type                                                      Zone Fill
Height above stream-bed                                   110.5 m
Crest length                                              920.0 m
Crest elevation                                           238.5 n
Maximum i-ater surface elevation                          235.5 m
Top of flood control pool                                 228.8 m
Top of conservation storage                               215.3 m
Top of inactive storage 1/                                172.1 mn
Volume of embankment                                   9,500,000 m3
Spillway:
Type            - inclined chute and tunnel
Gates           - 2 radical gates, 6 x 12.8 m
Design Capacity - at Elev. 215.3 -       260 m3/sec
at Elev. 222.8 -    1,100  "
at Elev. 235.5 -    1,960
Spillway crest elevation          -    210.0 m
Elevation top of spillway gates  -    222.8 m
l/ On the basis that power generation would be included in the
project plan. If power is omitted, these capacities would
be converted to irrigation use. This space also includes
about 10 I1n3 for domestic water supply.



ANNEX 2
P2ge 6
Table 1 (continued)
Outlet 'qbrks:
Type                               - 4.25 m diameter outlet pipe in tunnel
Controls                           - two 84" hollow jet valves discharging
into stilling basin
Capacity                           - 105 m3/sec at minimum reservoir level
Auxiliary outlet works             - 2.25 m diameter pipe in spillway
tunnel plug
Auxiliary outlet works capacity  - 20 m3/sec at reservoir, Elev. 147
- 70 m3/sec at reservoir, Kiev. 172
.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Table 2
PHILIPPINES
UPPER PAMPANTGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Construction lWork On Irrigation System
New Irrigation       Existing Irrigation
p                                       System i/                System          Total
Item         Unit       III         v        I & IT       II
Area            ha       12,000     19,300      34.,200    11,500     77,000
Canals and
laterals        km          210        276         700        231       1,h50
Gate con-
trolled farm
turnouts        Ho.       1,200      1,930       3,120      1,150      7,700
Farm ditches    km          600        965      1,370         500      3,435
Operation
and Mvainten-
ance and
Feeder roads    km          160        260        155         155      1,030
Drains          km           50         55        140          50         295
1/  Area III has been partially completed by NIA and the works included in
the above table represent additional works required to bring the area
up to the standards set for the project.



ANNEX 3
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
UPPER PAIePANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Hydrology
Water Supply
1.        The project would derive its main water supply from Pampanga
River regulated by storage at Pantabangan reservoir.   Tho major
tributaries, the Digmala and Coronel, enter the Pampanga River above
the existing Pampanga-Bongabon Diversion Dam and would also supply
water for project use.   Flows of the Talavera River would be available
for use on areas served by diversions from that stream.   Stored water
from Pantabangan Reservoir would be delivered to provide the dry season
supply, except the 5,000 ha lying above Diversion Canal No. 1.   All
these rivers have essentially the same flow pattern, and are influenced
by the distinct dry and wet rainfall seasons.   Low flows are normally
experienced in the period November-June, while the major portion of the
annual flow, about 75%, occurs in the wet months July through October.
2.        The Pampanga River has a drainage area of about 815 km2 above
the Pantabangan Dam site.   A gauging station was established about 3 km
upstream from the dam site in April 1959, and continuous records are
available from that date.   An estimate of flows for the period 19h9 to
April 1959 was synthesized by correlation with other records.   The
flows for the period 1909 through 1965 as estimated and recorded are
given in Table 1.
3.        Gauging stations have been operated since 1959 on the Talavera
River at Lomboy, the Digmala River at Labi and the Coronel River at
Bongkerohan.   These stations reflect inflow to the project area and
are above major irrigation diversions.   WSet season flows of these
streams will be largely unutilized.   Dry season flows to the extent
available will augment the releases from Pantabangan Reservoir and
allow a larger area to be irrigated than that which can be served
dependably by Pantabangan Reservoir alone.
Water Requirements
I.        The cropping pattern assumed for the project is based on two
crops of paddy in each calendar year.   The planting and harvesting
dates are geared to the wet and dry seasons,with the dry season
irrigation terminating around April 1 prior to harvest.   Under this
schedule, there would be about two months without irrigation demand
during April and May, at which time all maintenance works could be



ANNEX 3
Page 2
performed on the distribution system in the dry.   The schedules for
the two crops, showing the beginning and ending dates for the various
field activities, would be as follows:
Wet Season                 Dry Season
Land Preparation       May 21 - July 15       Nov. 1  -  Dec. 15
Planting               June 15- July 15       Nov. 18 -  Dec. 15
Harvest                Oct. 28- Nov. 27       Apr. 2  -  May  2
Project water requirements for each month we r determined on the basis of
the above cropping calendar and the consumptive use per crop described
below:
Dry Season                 Wet Season
A.  Land Preparation (20 days)        mm                          mm
Saturation                  51                         76
Submergence                 51                         51
Evaporation                 91                         99
Deep percolation            61                         63
Sub-total                  260                        289
Total Land Preparation                        549
B.   Transplant to harvest
(100 days of irrigation)
Evapotranspiration-/       639                         O10
Deep Percolation           292                        274
Sub-total                  931                        684
For Year:
Total for Growzing Season                   1,615
Land Preparation plus
Growing Season                             2,164
10% Waste on Farm                             216
Farm Water Requirement                      2,380
Less Effective Rainfall (average)             980
Farm Delivery Requirement                   1,400
Conveyance Losses 30%                         600
Diversion Requirement                       2,C000
1/ Evapotranspiration during the growing season is taken as equal to
the open pan evaporation for the particular month.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Operation of Pantabangan Reservoir
5.        Several operation studies were made for Pantabangan Reservoir
with various levels of irrigation demand imposed on the reservoir. The
studies were made using inflows into the reservoir as estimated and
gauged for the period 1909 through 1965, and imposing a variable
irrigation requirement representing various sizes of service area. The
per hectare diversion demand for irrigation was determined on a month
by month basis for the same period using the recorded rainfall for the
month to derive the required water to be supplied by irrigation.
Differing assumptions were also used on active capacity of the reservoir
useable for irrigation.   The studies take only into account water
supply from Pantabangan Reservoir and disregard the additional water
which would be available from the Talavera, Digmala and Coronel inflows.
6.        In all the studies, it was found that the critical years
during the period under review were 1956, 1959 and 1960.   Shortages
in irrigation water were experienced when larger irrigation demands
were imposed.   The results of the studies were summarized as follows:
Results of Operation Studies for Irrigation Only
Active Capacity    Service             Shortages -0 T3
for  irrigation     area       1956 1_99    1960          Total
1628          60,000       0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0
1629          63,000       6.8      0.0    48.7       55.5
1628          65,000      74.7      0.0   138.6      213.3
1810          62.,000      0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0
1810          68,000      33.2   11S.0   203.5       351.7
1810          70,000     137.1  228.7  238.2         6o0.0
7.        The shortages of 1956 occurred in June and July and are the
result of low reservoir inflow of 1955 and delay of start of rains until
August 1956.   A similar situation existed in 1959,   The shortages of
1960 occurred in February and March during the dry season irrigation.
8.        A second series of operation studies were made where production
of firm power was included in the project.   These showed that, if water
were released at tines of no or reduced irrigation demand in sufficient
quantities to generate 20 MtJ at 30% plant factor (7.2 hours per day),the
same level of shortages as for the irrigation only studies could be
achieved if the service area were reduced by 5,000 ha.
Size of Project and Adequacy of Supply
9.        The level of shortages in irrigation supply experienced at
70,000 ha with 1,810 Mm3 active storage, or at 65,000 ha with 20 MN



MTIEX 3
Page 4
generation at 30,'g plant factor, are acceptable.  In years of shortage,
a restriction could be placed on the area to be planted for the dry
season so that all areas planted would be assured a full supply. Such
shortages would occur with a frequency of about one in ten years, but
could occur in successive years as in 1959 and 1960. Since decision
on inclusion of power in the project will not be taken until the power
study has been completed (para  . 20) the lowver figure of 65,000 ha is
taken as the area which could be furnished an adequate dry and wet season
supply from Pantabangan Reservoir.
10.       Examination of flowt^ records of the Digmala and Coronel Rivers
indicate that in the dry season these rivers could dependably supply
about 7,000 ha in addition to the area supplied from Pantabangan storage
releases.  The nominal project area then, for which there is an
adequate water supply, is 72,000 ha in the dry season. The 5,000 ha
of land served from the Talavera and lying above Diversion Canal Mo. 1
can be irrigated in the vwet season, but wTould not have a dependable dry
season supply. Thus, the project would provide a dependable water
supply to 77,000 ha in the wet season and 72,000 in the dry.
11.       The above determination of project area which is limited by the
water supply is conservative and leaves a considerable margin of safety.
If power is not developed, or is developed on the basis of irrigation
releases only, a larger area could be served without increasing shortages.
Also, if full advaitage is taken of Talavera, Digmala and Coronel flows,
more stored water wrould be available for use at critical times.
Quality of Water
12.       Tests of water samples collected at the Pantabangan Dam site
indicated uniformly good quality of water with total dissolved solids
less than 300 ppm.
Floods
13.       The inflow design flood developed for the project represents
a maximum probable flood and was derived by imposing a design typhoon
type storm on the drainage basin above the reservoir and estimating the
resultant runoff by unit graph procedures.  It shows a peak inflow
of 12,0%5 m3/sec and a 6 1/2 day volume of 1,646 Mm3. This flood is
adequate for design purposes to insure safety of the structure.
Sediment
ih.       The 100 year sedirmnt deposition in the reservoir would be
approxirmtely 130 kmn3, or less than 6% of the active reservoir capacity.
This figure is based on analysis of sediment samples collected over a
period of time at the gauging station 3 Im upstream from the dam site.
Sediment accumulation in the reservoir would not be in sufficient
quantity to interfere with project operation in the foreseeable future.



Table 1                                 ANNEX 3
Page5
PHILIPPINEs
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Pampanga River Flows at the Pantabangan Dam bite
Year     J       F      M      A       x     J       J      A       S      0     N       D    Total
1949     37     15      10      7       5    22    163    212    294    273   104        80   1,222
1950     69      20     13     13      65    76    300    583    199    472    89        35   1,934
1951     20       9      4      6      89   no    176    531    340    120.   83         43   1,531
1952     17     11       6     13      49    89     78    299    245    232    93        36   1,168
*      1953      22      9      7       7      9   241    362    584    298    206   189        92   2,026
1954     35     13    1U       13      15    21     48    249    293    204   230    108   1,240
1955     25     12       6      5      10    17     71    142    176    149    59        11     674
1956     18       7      6     12      26    20     57    149    343    228   221    157   1,244
1957     75     28      18     10       7    94    239    248    457    257   163        74   1,670
1958     30     17      13      8       9   102    111    194    431    157    88        34   1,194
1959     21     11       9      4      10     7     57    221    186    243   268        55   1,092
1960     17     15      23      7      14   108      90    868    399    347    54       26   1,968
1961     14      6      12      6      34    94    362    275    240    183    56        31   1,313
1962     13      6       7      9       8    16    310    324    365    143    61        26   1,288
1963     14     12       8      5       5   171    281    335    394       97    29      22   1,373
1964     14       9      8      6      15    49     90    291    210    208   140    224   1,264
1965     76     30      20     18      31   118    391    181    307    113    51       27   1,363
Mean     30     14      11      9      24    8Co   187    335    305    213   116       64   1,388
%  of
Aninual    2     1       1      1       2     6     13      24     22      15     8       5     100



PHILIPPINES                         ArSC ).
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimate
Foreign
Local     Exchange      'ot S
Costs      Costa        Cost
(Ub$ Million Tnuiv-len5)
J. Pantabangan Dan and Reservoir
Dam and Structures                                       6.9         12.7        19.'
Access Roads and Bridges                                 0.2          0. 
Construction Power Line                                  0.1          0.h         CA
Right of Wday Acquisition                                4.7           -          L1.7
Relocations                                              0.9           -          0. 
Reservoir Clearing                                       o.4           -          0.1
6ervice Facilities                                       0.3          0.2         0.5
Engineering and Administration                           3.0           -          3.0
*                  Sub-total Dam and Reservoir                        16.2         13.d        30.3
II. Irrigation System and Roads
Modification of' existing diversion dams
and headworks structures                               0.2          0.2         0.1
Diversion Canal No. 2 and Irrigation
System Area III 1/                                     1.0           -          1.0
Completion of Irrigation System Area III 1/              0.7          0.4         1.1
Qompletion of Divers. Canal No. 2 1/                     0.3          0.2         C.5
Diversion Canal No. 1                                    0.9          1.0         1.0
Rehabilitation of Irrig. System Areas I, II & IV         2.1          2.0
Construction of Irrigation Sybtem Area V                 1.6          1.2
Roads                                                    1.8          2.2         L.a
Permanent Project Buildings and Compounds                0.2           -          C.'
Irrigation Project Service Facilities                    0.2          0.1         C.;
Engineering and Administration                           l.b           -
Sub-total Irrigation System and Roads              10.8         7.3         1'.
III.  Operation & Maintenance Equipment                          0.o          1.5           7
IV.  Consulting services                                          .3         115 .8
Sub-total I through IV                             27.8        24 a         51.9
Contingencies about 20%                             5.17         .9         ln.6
Total Investment Cost                              33.5        29.0         62.5?
V. Interest During Construction @ 7.%                          -           5.0            C
TOTAL Project Cost                                 33.5         3h.O         7.5
1/ Construction of Diversion Canal No. 2 and the irrigation system in Area III (see map)
have been partly completed by contract and force account.   The cost of these works
is shown as local currency expenditures.   Remaining works on these features would
be constructed by contract to be let following international competitive bidding
procedures and are included in the loan.



ANN Ex 5
Table 1                                 Page  1
PHILIPPINES
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment, Materials and Supplies
Construction Equipment and Supplies                                    Total Cost
For Force Account Work                                 Quantity            CIF
US$ '000
Dragline 1/2 cu. - 40' boom                                               140
Hydraulic excavator                                       4                120
Tractor w/angle blade dozer (Medium)                      4               140
p         Motor grader 110 hp                                       375
Wheeled tractor w/ ditcher and backhoe                    8                160
attachments
Sheepsfoot roller                                                            5
Pull type rubber tired roller                                                6
Dump trucks                                              1-4              112
Flat bed cargo trucks                                     6                 42
Front end loaders 1/2 cu. yd.                                               1 48
Equipment transporter 25 ton                              1                 30
Pickup trucks 3/4ton                                      6                 24
Concrete mixers 1/2 cu. yd.                              12                 24
Vibrators                                                12                  7
Pumps 2" to 6"                                            6                 18
Fuel and service trucks 4x6 2 ton                         3                 60
Mobile shop repair truck                                  1                 20
Misc. tools and equipment                                lump               'O
1,071
Spare parts 15%                                                 159
1,200
Supplies for structures and reinforcement
metal work and gates                                            1450
l,650
Contingencies 20%                                               350
TOTAL                           2,000



Table 2                                   ANNEX 5
PHILIPPINES                                 Page  2
UPPER PAIPANGA RIVEI IRRIGA.TION PROJECT
Equipment, Materials and Supplies                   Total- Cost
Operation and Maintenance Equipment                       Quantity            CIF
US' 00o
Dragline 5/8 cu. - 50' boom                                  3               120
Dragline 3/8 cu. - 40' boom                                  3                90
Hydraulic Excavator                                          3                90
Tractor w/angle blade dozer (Medium)                         3               105
Tractor w/angle blade dozer (Light)                          6              120
Motor grader 110 hp                                          6               150
p        Flatbed cargo trucks                                         12               84
Dump trucks 4 cu.                                           18               1i4
Front end loader 1/2 cu.                                     6                72
Low bed trailer with tractor 25 ton                          2                60
Pickup trucks 3/hton                                        12                48
Station Wagon                                                3                12
Truck bxh 4tGa                                              12                36
Pull type rubber tire roller                                 3                 6
Concrete mixer                                               6                12
Air compressor w/tools 105 cfm'                              3                15
*         Portable vibrators                                           6                 L
5 kw generator                                               6                 8
Welder, 300 cmp                                              3                 5
Pumps 211 to 6wt                                            12                36
Submersible sand pump                                        6                36
Mobile shop - hx6 2 ton, complete                            3                90
Stationary shop, Mech. equipment                             1                70
Shop equip. and misc. tools                                                   30
Miscellaneous and spare parts                                                 66
Subtotal                                                        1,500
Contingencies 20%                                                 300
TOTAL                             1,00



*                                          *S 
ANNEX 6
PHILIPPINEb                              Page  1
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER 1RAICATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Yields, Production and Returns
Paddy   Production'/   Return
Area          Paddy Yield         Total Paddy Production   Price         Cost       to varmer
ha      cavans/ha    Kg/hla      '000 cavans '000 m ton  P/cavan       P/ha          P/ha
I Wet Leason
A.  Before Development
Irrigated                 46,000                    1,760        1,840        80.96       15        350            250
Rainied                   31,000       28           1,  2          868        38.19        15       350              70
TOTAL                 77,000                                 2,708      119.15
B.  After Development
Irrigated                 77,000       87           3,825        6,699       29)4.76       15       7h5            560
I:  Dry beason
A.  Betore D3velopment
Irrigated                  7,000       40           1,760          280        12.32        15       350            250
B. After Development
Irrigated                 72,000       87           3,828        6,264       275.62        1        745             56o
Cultivated                                                       Groo  Value of      Net Value of'
Area                               Total Paddy Production        Proauction    Production to farmers
ha                                '000 cavans '000 m ton         P million         F million
III Total for Project
A.  Before Development         84,,000                              2,986        131.4            bb.82               15.42
B.  After Development        149,000                               12,963        570.38          194.44               83.44
C.  Increment (B-A)           65,000                                9,975        b38.91          1L19.62              68.02
1/  Production costs exclude land rent and water charge,. All labor requirements - whether family or hired - have been costed at
market value.



ANNTEX 6
Page  2
Paddy Production Budget
Estimated
Production Costs Per ha Per Crop      Present             Future
-    P/ha  -   -  -  -  -  -
A. Direct Costs
-  eed                                20                 30
Land Preparation                      60                100
Transplanting                         50                 60
Weeding                                60               100
Fertilizer                            30                135
Chemicals                             20                100
Harvesting and Threshing             100                200
Hauling                               10                 20
Sub-total                        350                745
B.  Indirect Costs 2/
Water Charges                         25
Land Rent                            120                 60
Sub-total                       15                 135
TOTAL PRODUCTION COSTS               095                880
Return Per ha Per Crop
Yield (cavans/ha) I'                    0                  87
Price (P/cavan)                         15                 IL
Gross Return                           600              1,218
Net Return                             105                338
Return Per Farm of  .  ha
(double cropped)_
Gross Return                         1,920              7,795
Total Production Costs               1,584              5,632
Net Returns                            336              2,163
US$ Equivalents                      86                555
1/  Present yield i, for irrigated paddy; on rainfed fields average yield is about
28 cavans/ha.  The future yield represents an average of tte wet and dry season
crop to be attained 11 years after the adoption of the high yielding varieties
by the farmer.
2/  Future indirect costs are diviced equally betwseen the twTo crops.
_/  Present return is for a single crop since there is no double cropping in the nre-



A'THEX 7
Page 1
PBILIPPIN&S
UPPER PAIIPAITGA RIV2R IRRIGATIal PROJECT
Organization and M4anagement
1.        Up to 1961j, responsibility for the national irrigation systems in
the Philippines was in the hands of the irrigation division of the Bureau of
Public Wviorks. At that time, in an effort to accelerate and intensify irri-
gation development in the country, all the division's functions, duties,
personnel and assets and liabilities were transferred and assigned to a new
agency, the National Irrigation Administration (NIA). The NIA wqhich was
set up under Republic Act No. 3601 has the following powers and objectives:
"(a)  To investigate, study, improve, construct and administer
all national irrigation systems in the Philippines;
(b)  To investigate all available and possible water resources
in the country for the purpose of utilizing the same for irrigation,
and to plan, design and construct the necessary projects to make
the following ten to twenty-year period as the Irrigation Age
of the Republic of the Philippines; and
(c)  To collect from the users of each irrigation system constructed
by it such fees as may be necessary to finance the continuous
operation of the system and reimburse within a certain period
not less than twenty-five years the cost of construction thereof."
2.        Overall responsibility for MIA is vested in a Board of Directors
composed of the folloring mernbers: The Secretary of Public WrJorks and CoTrmmi-
cations, who is also tho Chairman;the Secretary of Agriculture and Natural
Resources; the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the National Pow.Ter
Corporation; the Director of Plant Industry, the Commissioner of Agricultural
Productivity; and two other members appointed by the President of the Philip-
pines for a termx of six years.  The Board of Directors has the followqing power
and duties:
"(a)  To prescribe, amend and repeal, with the approval of the
President of the Philippines, rules and regulations governing
the manner in which the general business of NIA may be conducted;
(b)  Jith the approval of the President, to appoint, and fix
compensation of, an Irrigation Administrator and an Assistant
Irrigation Administrator, and by a majority vote of all the
members, to suspend and/or remove the said officials for cause,
with the approval of the President; and
(c)  To approve, subject to the final action of the President, the
annual and/or supplemental budgets of the NIA which may be
submitted to the Board by the Irrigation Administrator."



AINTE  7
Page 2
3.        The management of 1IIA's affairs is the responsibility of the
Irrigation Administrator, wrho has the following powers and duties:
"(a)  To direct and manage the affairs and business of the NIA, on
behalf of the Board of Directors and subject to its control
and supervision;
(b) To sit in all meetings of the Board and participate in its
deliberatiors, but without the right to vote;
(c)  To submit within sixty days after the close of each fiscal
year an annual report, through the Board of Directors, to
the President of the Philippines! and
S                  (d)  W-tith the approval of the Board, to appoint and fix the number
of such subordinate personnel as may be necessary for the proper
discharge of the duties and functions of the NIA, and, wfith the
approval of the Board, to remove, suspend, or otherwise discipline,
for cause, any subordinate employee of the NIA."
b .       NT.IAts organization structure is presented in the attached chart.  A
review of this structure as well as the agency's financial arrangements and
other operational aspects would be undertaken by a management consultant firm
(see para 6.03).



PHILIPPINES UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
NIA ORGANIZATION CHART
SCORPORTEOARY                                      NIA  BOARD OF DIRECTORS                        l
r    ADMINISTRATORl
|ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR                             rI
LEGAL STAFF              MANAGEMENT STAFF
ENGINEERING         |             |REGIONAL IRRIGAT1AN |H|FINANCE                                                         RADMINISTRATIVEND
DEPATMENT                                 EN  IN.LEERS'OFFICES               l|DEPARTMENT                            l|DEPARTMENT
|PLANNING, PROGRAMMING|                                                                  BUDGET AND          l|                    RECORDS AND          l
_  AND EVALUATION                      _       ENGINEERING                     _FISCAL                                   _         REPRODUCTION
DIVISION                               DIVISIONS                                DIVISION                                    DIVISION
AND PROPERTY                               ADMIN                                       DIVISION                                 TRAINING
DIIINDVSOSDIVISION                                                                                                          DIVISION
EQUIPMENT                                   NATIONAL                              ACCOUNTING                              GENERAL SERVICES
MANAGEMENT                                 IRRIGATION                              DIVISION                                   DIVISION
DIVISION                                    PROJECTS
DESIGN           1
DIVISION       N
z
December 1968                                                                                                                                                          fBRD-4513  -



PHILIPPITES
UPVER PAIIPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR PROJECT CONSTRUCTION
|NIA BO |E
*--  I    -'  -    .UPRP COMMITTEE AND
|BOARD OF CONSULTANTS               NIA ADMINISTRATOR               JOINT TECHNICAL STAFF
FiADMNISTRAIEF{RJC  MNGRtIICL
_   AS$T PROJECT MANAGER                  CONSULTANTS|ASST PROJ'ECT MANAGER|
ENGINERING SERVICES                                                | FIELD SERVICES       l
PROJECT ENGINEER             PROJECT ENGINEER
l   DAM    ||IRRIGATIC1 FACILITIES
ADMINISTRATIVE                - FIELD ENGINEERING                   - FIELD ENGINEERING
HYDROLOGY
-  INSPECTION                        - INSPECTION
DESIGNS & SPECIFICATIONS
PROGRAMMING AND CONTROL          OFFICE ENGINEERING                 - FORCE ACCOUNT
TECHNhCAL REPORTS
- MAINTENANCE FACILITIES                OFFICE ENGINEERING
L DRAWINGS AND FILE



ANNEX 7
Chart 3
PHILIPPINES
UPVER PMTPAEGA RIVER IRRIGATION PRO JYU'
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
NIA ADMINISTRATOR
PROJECT MANAGER
CABANATUAN
-SANTA ROSA DISTRICT
-ADMINISTRATIVE
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE                             -EQUIPMENT
ADMINISTRATION                                 - ROAD MAINTENANCE
FIELD OPERATIONS AND INSPECTION                  - WATER MANAGEMENT ZONE I
SHOP REPAIRS AND SERVICING                       H DIVISIONS
L                                                      $W- SECTIONS
PANTABANGAN DAM AND RESERVOIR                     - WATER MANAGEMENT ZONE II
. AADMTINISTRATIVE                                 H DIVISIONS
. RESERVOIR OPERATION                                 H- SECTIONS
MAINTENANCE                                     W ITATER MANAGEIENT ZONE III
H DIVISIONS
SECTIONS
SAN JOSE DISTRICT
|     AS ABOVE
TAIAVERA DISTRICT
NOTE: A Water Management Zone may be
made up of four or five
Divisions. Sections would be
limited to about hOO ha.
L AS ABOVE



ANNEX 8
Page 1
PHILIPPINES
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return
1.         For the purpose of economic analysis, a total project investment
cost of Us$ 62.5 million was adcpted. Annual operation and maintenance
costs charged against the project represent the increase to the level pro-
jected at full development (Us$ 950,000) over the current rate of expendi-
ture (US$ 230,000).  Farm production costs were adopted from Annex 6 with
all farm labor requirements - family and hired - treated as a production
cost at prevailing and projected wage levels.
2.         The rice price used for economic analysis is US$ 126 per m ton
(the equivalent price in Ianila would be about US$ 2.00 higher; the differ-
ence is accounted for by transport costs). This price was derived from the
average import price paid by the Philippines Government during 1961-67
(US$ 124 per m ton of milled rice CIF tInila,), and current projections of
world market price for rice in 1975 (US$ 140 per m ton of milled rice 5%
broken FOB Bangkok). In order to convert the rice price into a paddy price,
the prevailing milling efficiency of 65% was adopted. Assuming that milling
costs would be covered by the value of by-products, the equivalent paddy
price to US$ 126 per m ton of milled rice would be about US$ 82 per m ton
(P 14 per cavan). Using a rice price of US$ 126 per m ton and milling effi-
ciency of 65%, returns from the project would be as follows:
Net Value of
Paddy                             Production      Production
Production  Milled Rice 2i0L ualent    Cost        to economy
OOO- m ton  1000 m ton.US$ million  US$ million   US$ million
Present     131.5        85.5       10.8          7.5             3.3
Future      570.4       370.8       46.7         28.4            18.3
Increment   438.9       285.3       35.9         20.9            15.0



ANINEX 8
Page 2
3.        The shift from traditional rice varieties to the high-yield-
ing varieties was projected to occur over the next six years for the
wet season crop (i.e. the high yielding varieties would be introduced
following the completion of rehabilitation works or the ccnstruction
of a new system).   In the case of dry season cropping, all lands
brought under cultivation were assumed to be planted to the new
varieties.   The hectarage to be planted to the high yielding
varieties (also the basis for computing incremental benefits) would be
as follows:
Project Year                 Wet Season                   Dry Season-/
Existing Systems       New Systems
5                20,000               12,000
6                 35,000              20,000
7                 696,000            31,000             -
h                   ~~~~~~~8             t                                   0  
9                   4                                  50,000
10                                                     65,000
1/ Dry season area excludes the 5,000 ha above Diversion Canal No. 1,
which would not be served by the project, and 7,000 ha already
under irrigation during the dry season.
The projected yield level would be reached gradually over an 11 year
period following the introduction of the high yielding varieties in
any given area, while projected production costs for the same area
would be incurred in the eighth year.
Flood control benefits were computed on the basis of area
flooded, the frequency of each flood and corresponding annual losses.
The flood reduction which could be achieved by use of the 486 MN3 space
in Pantabangan Reservoir was then computed and used as the basis for
flood control benefits.   Annmal benefits would be about / 2 million
(us$ 500,000) wqhile the incremental cost of flood protection is US$ 2.5
million.   The rate of return on this phase of the project taken in
isolation would be about 12%.
5.        The rate of return to the economy from the project, excluding
power, would exceed 13%.   The incremental net benefits and project
cost streams used in calculating this rate are presented below:



AMNNB 8
Page 3
1/                                2/
Year          Project Cost              Incremental Benefits
- -US$ million -
1                1.2
2                2.3
3                8.2                             _
4               10.2                            0.4
5               14.6                           1.1
6               16.6                           1.8
7               10.8                            4.5
*  8             1.0                           6.2
I    I                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7 '5
.                t                             8.7
9.9
10.9
u.6
I X                         12.5
13.1
14.0
14.6
14.8
S                    1~~~~~~~~~~~ . 0
t                I                              t
50                 I                             I
1/ Project costs from the eighth year onward represent
annual incremental operation and maintenance costs.
2,/ Excluding the specific flood control benefits (see
para. 4) since flood protection is required to attain
the level of yields projected in this report.



LU.
s~~~~~~~~~L CM C =
II    ~CD
- --4-                 0                           0 >  --I
1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
rr .<                                                       :i
CX    sl                tig+:'=h-'S             <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E
s                   s       s    4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............



