RESTRICTED
FlLE    COAPY                 Report No. P-736
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES
FOR THE
UPPER PAMPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
July 30, 1969.



DITERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVEIOPNENT
REPORT AND REGOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPTJBLIC OF THE PHILIPPINES FOR
THE UPPER PANPANGA RIVER IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in various currencies equivalent to $34 million to the Republic of
the Philippines.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.        In September 1967 the Government applied to the Bank for a loan
to help finance the Upper Pampanga River multi-purpose project. The project
was prepared by the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation and included facilities
for irrigation and power development and flood control. After reviewing
the feasibility report and additional information submitted by the Government,
the Bank suggested to the Government that further studies be carried out
to confirm the justification for including power development in the project
and offered to consider financing a project comprising only the irrigation
and flood control facilities. we also advised the Government that if the
studies showed that power development was justified, it would be the subject
of a separate appraisal and possible loan. The Government agreed to these
arrangements and the Upper Pampanga Irrigation Project was appraised in
September/October 1968.
3.        Following the completion of the appraisal report the Government
was informed that the Bank would be unable to negotiate a loan until sat-
isfactory arrangements had been made to meet the Bank's requirements in
respect of international competitive bidding, preference for local supplies
and to finance the local currency costs of the project. To comply with
the Bank's requirements the Philippine Congress enacted special legislation
for the project in June 1969 which included the appropriation of 12CO
million,enough to cover the local currency of both the irrigation and power
elements of the project.
4.        Negotiations were held in Washington from July 7 to 18.   The
Government was represented by the Honorable Eduardo Romualdez, Secretary
of Finance; Dr. Placido Mapa and Mr. Alfredo Pio de Roda, Director-General
and Deputy Director-General of the Presidential Economic Staff; Mr. Alfredo
L. Juinio, Administrator of the National Irrigation Administration (NIA)
and Mr. Cesar Gonzales, Project Manager.
5.        The proposed loan would be the thirteenth in the Philippines and
it would increase the total amount lent to $217.2 million, net of cancel-
lations. The following is a summary statement of Bank loans to the



-2-
Philippines as at June 3C, 1969:
Loan                                                    Amount (US $ million)
No.    Year          Borrower             Purpose       Bank       Undisbursed
183 PH 1957   National Power Corp.    Power (Binga)     18.4            -
(NPC)
290 PH 1961   Philippines             Dredging           7.4            -
297 PH 1961   NPC                     Power (Angat)      33.5           -
325 PH 1962   NPC                     Power (Maria
Christina)        3.1           -
331 PH 1963   Philippine National     Relending to the
Bank (PNB)              Private Devel-
opment Corpor-
ation of the
Philippines
(PDCP)           114.8          -
386 PH 1964   National Waterworks
& Sewerage Authority   Manila Water
(NWSA)                  Supply           20.2          4.1
393 PH 1964   Philippines             Education (Col-
lege of Agri-
culture)          6.0          2.5
432 PH 1965   Central Bank (CBP)      Agriculture        5.C            -
467 PH 1965   PNB                     Relending to PDCP 25.0          11.6
491 PH 1967   NPC                     Power (Bataan)    12.C           9.2
607 PH 1969   CBP                     Agriculture       12.5 a/       12.5 a/
630 PH 1969   PNB                     Relending to
PDCP             25.0 a/      25.C a/
Total (net of cancellations)                    183.2
of which has been repaid
to Bank and others                             17.0
Total now outstanding                           166 .2
Amount sold                    12.0
of which has been repaid      8.C               4.C
Total now held by Bank                          162.2 b/
Total undisbursed                                             64.9 b/
a/ Signed in June and July 1969; not yet effective.
b/ Including $37.5 million not yet effective.



-3-
6.        Although project implementation in the public sector has improved
a number of difficulties still remain with Bank-financed projects. With
regard to the Manila Water Supply Project (Loan No. 386-PH) water service
has somewhat improved with the completion of the supply works in April and
during the next nine to twelve months, as the distribution system is
completed, improved service will gradually become available to most of
NWSA's customers. NWSA now has adequate funds to meet the peso costs of
construction and there has been some improvement in NWSA's revenues as a
result of improved collections. Nonetheless, NWSA's financial position
remains unsatisfactory and the Bank will continue to press NWSA to implement
the necessary rate increases at the earliest opportunity. Construction of
the Bataan Power Project (Loan No. 491-PH) is progressing resonably well,
and progress is being made in the implementation of consultants' recommend-
ations to improve National Power Corporation's (NPC) organization and admin-
istration. However, NPC's transmission construction program has fallen
behind because of a lack of funds. The Government has recently arranged
some interim financing for NPC until NPC can sell a sufficient amount of
its own bonds.
7.        A Grain Storage Project requiring a loan of about $15 million
is being appraised and is expected to be ready for the Executive Directors'
consideration in the first half of 1970.
8.        No IDA credits have been made to the Philippines.   IFC's loans
and investments in the Philippines consisted of an equity investment of
180C,CCC (equivalent to $205,CCC) in PDCP, which has since been sold to
other investors; and an equity investment of $4 million equivalent and
a loan of $8 million in the Manila Electric Company, of which IFC now holds
$3.6 million and $5.6 million, respectively, for its own accounts. IFC
is appraising two projects for loan and share investments - Philippine
Long Distance Telephone Company ($4.5 million) and Mariwasa Manufacturing
Inc., a ceramic tile plant ($1,20C,000) - and expects to submit these projects
to the Executive Directors for consideration in August.
PART II - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
9.        Borrower:                  Republic of the Philippines.
Amount:                    In various currencies equivalent to
US $3i million.
Purpose:                   To assist in financing the construction
of Pantabangan dam on the Upper Pampanga
River in Central Luzon; the construction
or rehabilitation of irrigation facilities
serving in total about 77,0CO ha; the
construction of about 1,00C km of feeder
roads; the purchase of equipment, materials
and supplies by National Irrigation Admin-
istration for construction and for operation
and maintenance; consulting services and
interest during construction.



-14-
Amortization:            In 25 years including a seven year
grace period through semi-annual instal-
ments beginning December 15, 1976 and
ending December 15, 1994.
Interest Rate:           7% per annum.
Commitment Charge:       3/4 of 1% per annum.
Estimated Rate of
Return of the Project:   13%.
PART III - THE PROJECT
10.       An appraisal report entitled "Philippines - Upper Pampanga
Irrigation Project" (PA 2a) is attached.
11.       Agriculture and related activities provide the livelihood for
about two-thirds of the country's population and generate about one-third
of national domestic product. Rice is the staple diet of the Philippines
and rice production takes up almost 4C% of the total area under cultivation.
Rice production is predominantly the occupation of small farmers whose
incomes are among the lowest in the Philippines. In the six years prior
to 1967 rice production had increased at an annual average rate of about
1.7% and the Philippines met part of its rice requirements through imports.
During the last two years it has been demonstrated that with controlled
year-round irrigation and other inputs the improved rice varieties can
produce substantially larger yields. In 1967/68 rice production increased
about 11% and there is a reasonable expectation that the Philippines will
be self-sufficient in rice production on a sustained basis for the first
time in the post-war period. However, to meet future demand additional
facilities for rice production will be required if large quantities of
imports are to be avoided in the years ahead.
12.       The project is located on the Upper Pampanga river about 8C km
north of Manila in the most important rice producing region in the
Philippines and will make a significant contribution towards meeting future
demand. It would provide year-round irrigation for the cultivation of
72,000 ha and irrigation through the wet season of an additional 5,000 ha,
as well as flood protection. The project will be carried out by the NIA,
a Government agency created in 1964 out of the Irrigation Division of the
Bureau of Public Works. NIA is responsible for the construction and admin-
istration of all national irrigation systems in the Philippines covering
about 30C,CC0 ha. Overall responsibility for NIA is vested in a board of
directors; fiveare members ex-officio by virtue of their positions as
heads of other Government departments or agencies and two are appointed
by the President. The management of NIA is vested in the Irrigation
Administrator who is appointed by the NIA board with the approval of the
President. NIA staff is technically competent in field irrigation works, but



-5-
it has had no previous experience in the construction of large dams.   NIA
will employ engineering consultants to design the dam and supervise its
construction. NIA's operating and administrative procedures will need to
be strengthened and its internal organization improved. For this purpose
NIA will employ management consultants to prepare a detailed program to
remedy these deficiencies and help NIA carry it out. In addition a
Coordinating Committee for the project under the Administrator of NIA has
been established to provide NIA with technical support in power and agri-
cultural development and road construction. These arrangements should
provide NIA with sufficient technical assistance to carry out the project
and improve its overall operations.
13.       The Upper Pampanga River Irrigation Project includes the construction
of an earth and rock-filled dam and reservoir at Pantabangan; the construction
of a new irrigation system to serve about 31,000 ha; rehabilitation of the
existing irrigation system serving about 46,0CC ha; the construction of about
1,000 km of feeder roads in the project area; the procurement of equipment
for operation and maintenance of the project and engineering and management
consulting services. The project also includes consulting services for a
study to determine the justification for power development at the dam. The
results of the power study will be known before the final design of the
dam is completed.
14.       The project would take six years to construct and is estimated to
cost $67.5 million including interest on the Bank loan during construction.
The proposed loan of $34 million would cover the estimated foreign exchange
costs, $29 million, and interest during construction, $5 million. The
local currency costs are estimated at 130 million ($33.5 million equivalent)
and would be met out of Government revenues appropriated for the project
under the special legislation or out of the sale of bonds. In order to
ensure a regular flow of funds for the project a special fund has been
established which would be adjusted and replenished monthly to a level
equivalent to the estimated amount of payments to be made by NIA for the
project for the following three-month period. NIA will levy and collect
charges for the use of irrigation water which will provide it with revenues
sufficient to cover all operating and maintenance costs of the project
and to recover the capital invested in the project in a period of not less
than 25 years. At full development, about 13 years after completion of
the project, the incremental increase in rice production is estimated at
44C,oCc tons a year. After deducting all incremental production, operation
and maintenance costs the increase in the net value of production would
provide estimated foreign exchange savings of $14 million a year. The
rate of return to the economy is estimated to exceed 13%.
15.       Construction of the Pantabangan dam and reservoir, the new
irrigation system and the feeder roads will be carried out by contractors
under unit price contracts awarded after international competitive bidding.
For bidding purposes contracts would be grouped so as to be of interest to



-6-
contractors outside the Philippines.   Rehabilitation of the existing
irrigation scheme and the construction of farm ditches throughout the
project is expected to be carried out by NIlA on force account.  The proposed
loan would finance the actual foreign exchange costs of contracts awarded
to foreign contractors, 47,, of contracts awarded to local contractors,
and 305 of the costs of work performed by NIA on force account. The loan
would also finance the c.i.f. cost of equipment, materials and supplies
imported directly by NIA and the c.i.f. costs of imported materials, supplies
and components for goods purchased in the Philippines and the foreign
exchange costs of consulting services.   All major equipment and supply
contracts will be awarded after international corpetitive bidding. All
payments to be made to contractors, suppliers, or to NIA for force account
work will be certified by NIA's consultants. iAny savings in the loan will
be cancelled.
16.       NIA is exempt from payment of all import duties on all equipment,
supplies and materials imported for the project, but by law NIA is required
to give equipment, materials and supplies of Philippine origin when
offered by Philippine bidders a 15'5 preference in the evaluation of bids.
These arrangements are reflected in the loan documents.
17.       The proposed loan includes an amount of $150,0OCO to finance the
foreign exchange costs of preconstruction work carried out by NIA since
April 30, 1969.   This work includes further exploration of the dam site,
access roads and the construction of the power line to the site. Financing
of these expenditures is justified because NIA needed to start preconstruction
work during the present dry season if the proposed construction schedule
is to be maintained.   All items to be financed were procured in accordance
with the procedures agreed for the project as a whole.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRIIENTS AID AUTHORITY
18.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Philippines
and the Bank, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank and the text of a
draft Resolution approving the proposed Loan are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.
19.       The draft Loan Agreement contains provisions normally used for
other Bank irrigation projects.   In addition, provisions are made in the
draft Loan Agreement to require the Borrower to maintain a special fund
established for the Project (Section 5.13) and to provide preference to
domestic suppliers (Schedule 4).
20.       The Borrower has enacted a special Act for the purposes of
carrying out the Project. Under the Act peso funds required for the
completion of the Project were appropriated and restrictions on inter-
national competitive bidding imposed under other laws were removed.



-7-
PART V - THE ECONOMY
21.       An Economic Report on "The Current Economic Position and
Prospects of the Philippines" (No. EAP-7a, dated July 24, 1969) is being
distributed to the Executive Directors seporately.
22.       Though the Philippines is encountering difficulties in respect
of short-term balance of payments and foreign debt management, on the
whole longer-term economic developments are favorable. There has been some
acceleration in the rate of growth touched off by a production breakthrough
in domestic agriculture, particularly rice. Private savings and investment
remain high and the Government has improved its very inadequate revenue
position through increased efficiency in tax administration and through
the enactment of new tax measures. In addition to the tax measures passed
in 1968, Congress enacted a further revenue measure in 1969 which is
expected to increase Government revenues by about Y8C million a year.
This has permitted a sizable increase in infrastructure investments. Steps
have been taken to improve sectoral planning and project preparation and
execution in the public sector, and to provide a sounder basis for actions
taken by Government in support of investment decisions in the private sector.
23.       The balance of payments problem stems from a significant rise in
imports in 1967 and 1968, aggravated by the rather disappointing performance
in exports. In net terms foreign exchange reserves are negligible. Monetary
measures to deal with this situation have not met the problem fully and
the Government has increased its short-term foreign borrowing. Attempts
are now being made by the Government to convert into longer-term debt part
of the $187 million Central Bank short- and medium-term debt maturing in
1969 and to roll over as much of the balance as possible. Because of the
approaching election to be held in November, it is unlikely for the time
being that basic action in foreign exchange management will be undertaken.
24.       The longer-term growth prospects of the Philippines are reasonably
good. Foreign capital obtained on a long term basis is required, however,
to supplement domestic saving. In addition the Philippines needs to re-
structure the short-term debt accumulated in recent years. In view of her
limited long-term public debt and the consequently low debt service ratio
(6.8% of current account receipts in 1968) the Philippines can incur
considerable additional long-term debt on conventional terms.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
25.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.



-8-
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
26.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
July 28, 1969



