Report No. PID11244
Project Name                     Republic of Paraguay-Financial Sector...
Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Sector                           Financial Sector
Project ID                       PYPE39994
Borrower                         Republic of Paraguay
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance and Central
Bank of Paraguay
Date this PID Prepared           May 21, 2002
Projected Board Date             November 30, 2002
1.      Country and Sector Background.   Paraguay is considered to be a middle
income country and has a GDP per capita of $1,360. The economic base depends
in large part on the agricultural sector and hydroelectric power generation,
although much economic power is concentrated in the cattle ranching business,
various trade activities and the State itself. There is a small domestic
consumer goods manufacturing sector but the agricultural sector provides
nearly 40t of employment, and constitutes 75t of Paraguay's merchandise
exports, primarily from the soybean business as well as cotton. Of a total
population of 5.6 million, 1.9 million are economically active, of which
between 15W-20t are unemployed.   Economic activity is distributed in
concentrated geographical pockets, since the Chaco region, which constitutes
about three fifths of the country's land, hardly contributes 3t of total GDP.
To date, economic activity has been concentrated around Asunci6n as well as
Ciudad del Este.
2.      Paraguay's economic growth in the past 4-5 years has been dismal with
real GDP growth being negative or close to zero. During the late 1970s and
early 1980s the economy had a brief spurt of very high growth which was mostly
due to the returns generated from the Itaipu hydroelectric project. The rest
of the 1980s had uneven though still positive growth, and in the early to mid
1990s high crop production due to weather conditions resulted in 4W-5t growth
which then fell after 1995. Given Paraguay's dependence on agricultural
products which are affected both by international prices and weather
conditions, as well as a lack of a solid industrial base, coupled with a spate
of partial banking crises in the mid to late 1990s, future prospects for
reasonable growth are unlikely unless a major industrial/economic
restructuring effort takes place coupled with a completion of ongoing
privatization efforts. Nevertheless, despite such conditions, risks have been
temporarily mitigated due to the significant economic activity in the informal
and contraband economy as well as the results from the power sector supported
by the Yacyreta hydroelectric project and demand from the Itaipu generator.



3.      Program Context.   The central bank has been able to keep inflation in
check by issuing central bank bills for open market operations in
order to absorb the liquidity in the banking system. Inflation has
been steadily declining from almost 40% in the early 1990s to just
under 8? for 2001.   However, the low economic growth also has
contributed to reduce inflation. The large devaluation of the
Brazilian currency in early 1999, however, put pressure on the
competitiveness of Paraguayan manufacturing and agricultural exports
given that Brazil is Paraguay's largest trading partner. The
Brazilian devaluation resulted in an influx of cheap Brazilian
products, of which some began competing with Paraguayan producers.
However, during mid-1999, the central bank began allowing the guaranU
to depreciate to gain competitive parity, although after mid 2001,
the Brazilian real again depreciated causing a similar situation, and
the central bank following some deliberation allowed the guaranU to
depreciate again. However, it has still not matched the cumulative
depreciation of the Brazilian currency in the last 3 years.
4.      The revealed problems in crisis management and the lack of cost
effective results from the first banking crisis in 1995, and in particular the
revelation that there existed a large sector of unregistered 'black' deposits,
prompted reforms to the banking and central bank laws and the eventual halting
of central bank lending to commercial banks. To avoid further direct
involvement in the banking system as well as to increase transparency,
deposits of public sector entities were transferred to the private banking
system. However, this policy which is still in effect, generates risks to the
local banks whose dependence on public sector deposits can cause liquidity
problems if the public agencies decide they need to withdraw substantial funds
on short notice. Another area that the Paraguayan authorities have become
increasingly involved in, along with U.S. cooperation, is the development and
strengthening of anti-money laundering techniques which are currently
supported by financial sector and criminal legislation in Paraguay - this is
particularly important to address the heavy contraband business and crime in
Ciudad del Este where there have been detections of alleged terrorist activity
as well.
5.      Project Objectives.   The project aims to modernize the banking
regulatory framework and to establish market friendly exit mechanisms for
insolvent banks as well as to rationalize state owned banking institutions to
prevent future losses and focus primarily on small rural lending. The
rationalization of the public banking component is primarily geared towards
improving access of credit by the micro and small rural and agricultural
businesses, by inter alia, limiting first tier public lending to these sectors
and excluding large corporate borrowers from preferential lending. For the
banking system as a whole, the implementation of bank resolution and deposit
insurance schemes will, as a priority, protect the smallest depositors with
the least economic assets, and assure prompt repayment of their deposits in
the event of bank failures.
6.      Project Components:
(a) Banking, Legal and Regulatory Framework: This component will focus on the
implementation of modifications to the Banking Law, to upgrade prudential
limits for capital, loan classification as well as strengthening of
supervision practices, in line with international standards and best
practices.
-2-



(b) Bank Resolution Framework: This component addresses modifications to the
Banking Law to incorporate mechanisms for the non traumatic and market
friendly resolution of bank through transfer/sale of assets liabilities to the
financial system.
(c) Deposit Insurance and Lender of Last Resort: This component entails
modification to the Banking Law and Central Bank regulations to set up a pre-
funded deposit insurance scheme with banking restructuring powers so as to
minimize cash outlays during the banking resolution and bank exit process, and
to provide proper incentives for access of the central bank's lender of last
resort credit facilities.
(d) Institutional Framework: This component aims to strengthen the autonomy
and independence of the financial regulatory and supervisory institutions via
the modification to the central bank charter and implementation of directives
to provide increased operational and political autonomy.
(e) Reform of the State Owned Banks: This component involves the restructuring
and consolidation of the state owned banking institutions so as to achieve
rationalization and downsizing of the state banks, and creation of one limited
first tier rural bank and one second tier development fund financed from
bilateral and multilateral external sources.
7.      Benefits.  The proposed project would have benefits in a number of areas
of the financial system. The new legal framework would significantly
modernize and facilitate the management and regulation of the financial
system. The modernization of bank supervisory practices would cover the early
application of sanctions to prevent deterioration of financial institutions
and reverse faulty management or operational decisions, as well as upgrading
the Superintendency's risk management monitoring tools. It would increase the
autonomy of the supervisory body, and upgrade prudential financial regulations
to enhance banking sector surveillance and reduce the frequency and severity
of bank failures.
8.      Institutional and Implementation Arrangements.    Macroeconomic targets
will be monitored by the Bank in coordination with the IMF. The reform of the
State banks component will be executed by the Ministry of Finance and jointly
monitored by the Bank and IADB. The reform of the regulatory framework of the
banking system will be executed by the Central Bank and monitored/verified by
the World Bank. Technical assistance in the form of grants and T.A.
operations are expected to be provided both by the World Bank and IADB to
support implementation of the reforms.
9.      Executing agencies:   The executing agencies are the Ministry of Finance
of Paraguay and the Central Bank. Within the Central Bank, the
Superintendency of Banks will have a key role in implementing the new legal
framework.
10.     Project Sustainability.   Sustainability is expected provided that the
reforms are supported by adequate technical assistance and an a priori public
information campaign is conducted to persuade all stakeholders (Congress,
banks, farmers, private sector, others). The principal risks to the reform
program are political and macroeconomic as well as the risk of potential for
incomplete implementation of the reforms given weak institutional capacity.
The restructuring of the state owned banking sector poses additional political
challenges: the closure of operations which do not cater to the small
entrepreneur or the small farmer could generate political issues from more
influential larger agricultural enterprises which currently benefit from some
of these programs.
11.     Poverty Category and Environmental Aspects.   The project, while
financial in nature, has a number of social oriented objectives which focus on
-3 -



the individual stakeholder and credit access for the small business owner.
The rationalization of the public banking component is primarily geared
towards improving access of credit by the micro and small rural and
agricultural businesses. For the banking system as a whole, the
implementation of bank resolution and deposit insurance schemes will, as a
priority, protect the smallest depositors with the least economic assets, and
assure prompt repayment of their deposits in the event of bank failures. The
project will not have any environmental impacts and thus its rating is "C".
Nevertheless, within the guidelines developed for lending criteria of banks in
Paraguay, the issue of environmental liabilities will be listed as one factor
in determining viability for lending to enterprises.
12.     Program Objective Category.     Economic Management (EM)
13.     Contact Point:
John Daniel Pollner
Task Manager
(202)473-0079
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Facsimile:    (202) 522-1500
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 31, 2002.
- 4 -



