Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7288-PA 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Programmatic Financial Sector Adjustment Loan) 
 
between  
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated  June 13, 2005 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7288-PA 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 13, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated March 
3, 2005: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies 
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
financial sector (the Program), which Program consists of actions (the First Phase of the 
Program)  that have already been taken as described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to 
the satisfaction of the Bank, and other actions and policies that the Borrower intends to 
take and adopt in the near future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the 
objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the 
Program during the execution thereof;   
(B) 
the Borrower has maintained a macroeconomic policy framework 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(C) on 
the 
basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the First Phase of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making 
the Loan  as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (as amended 
through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“
‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
Page  3
-
2
-
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Anti-Money Laundering Draft Law” means 
Proyecto de Ley que 
Previene y Reprime los Actos 
Ilícitos Destinados a la Legitimación de Dinero  y Bienes
,
the Borrower’s Draft Law of May 13, 2004 for the prevention of laundering of assets and 
goods which contains provisions for, 
inter alia
:
(i) the definition of money-laundering as 
Page  4
-
3
-
a
crime; (ii) the establishment of a centralized  intelligence unit of the Borrower to deal 
with anti-money laundering issues; and (iii) the definition of terrorism finance as a crime; 
(b) 
“Bank Resolution and Deposit Insurance Law” means 
Ley
 
de
Garantías 
de Depósitos y Resolución de Entidades de Intermediación Financiera Sujetos de la Ley 
General de Bancos, Financieras y Otras Entidades de Crédito
,
the Borrower’s Law No. 
2334/03 of December 12, 2003;  
(c) 
“Banking Draft Law” means 
Proyecto de Ley General de Entidades de 
Int
ermediación Financiera
,
the Borrower’s Draft Law of December 10, 2004 for 
Financial Intermediary Entities (which draft law has been previously approved by the 
Board of Directors of BCP (as defined below) and reviewed by the MoF (as defined 
below)) which establishes the new legal framework for financial intermediation activities 
in Paraguay and contains provisions for, 
inter alia
:
(i) stricter capital adequacy 
requirements; (ii) loan classification and provisioning standards; (iii) schedule of 
sanctions for breach of norms; (iv) exposure limits to related borrowers and within 
financial groups; (v) corporate governance and risk management; and (vi) minimum bank 
licensing requirements, as well as provides for the derogation of Law No. 861/96 (as 
defined below); 
(d) “BCP” 
means 
Banco Central del Paraguay
,
the Borrower’s Central 
Bank, established pursuant to Decree-Law No.18 of March 25, 1952 as said Decree-Law 
has been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(f) 
“Law No. 861/96” means 
Ley General de Bancos, Financieras y Otras 
Entidades de Crédito
,
the Borrower’s Law for Banks, Finance Companies and Other 
Financial Entities of June 24, 1996; 
 
(g) “MoF” 
means 
Ministerio de Hacienda
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Finance; and  
(h) 
“SB Strategic Plan” means the plan that defines the mission, objectives, 
strategies and short-, medium- and long-term targets of the 
Superintendencia de Bancos
 
(the Borrower’s Superintendency of Banks (SB) established within BCP), and provides 
for SB’s institutional commitment to, 
inter alia
:
(i) upgrade supervision procedures of 
financial institutions; (ii) undertake risk vulnerability ratings of financial institutions; (iii) 
enforce corrective actions against imprudent banking practices; and (iv) establish the 
institutional procedures necessary to implement the Bank Resolution and Deposit 
Insurance Law (as defined above) and the regulations to said law. 
Page  5
-
4
-
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to fifteen million 
Dollars ($15,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a 
Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of $14,925,000 from the 
Loan Account in support of the First Phase of the Program.  
(b)  
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request 
for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in BCP, a deposit account 
in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All withdrawals from the 
Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2006 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one 
percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan, subject to any waiver of a portion of such fee as 
may be determined by the Bank from time to time. On or promptly after the Effective 
Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and 
pay to itself the amount of said fee.  
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
Page  6
-
5
-
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15  in each year.
 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  7
-
6
-
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall, and shall cause the BCP to, exchange views 
with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Loan 
which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the Program, or any 
action taken under the Program including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
[four] months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a) 
A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, 
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
(b) 
The Borrower’s macroeconomic policy framework has become 
inconsistent with the objectives of the Program. 
(c) 
An action has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any 
action or policy under the Program (including any action specified in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, adversely affect the 
achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
Page  8
-
7
-
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01. The date September 12, 2005 is hereby specified for the purposes 
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of  MoF is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministerio de Hacienda 
 
Chile 128 c/Palma 
 
Asunción, Paraguay 
Facsimile:   (595-21) 448 283 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
 Telex: 
   Facsimile: 
 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in 
Asunción, Paraguay, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY 
 
By /s/ Ernst Bergen 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Pamela Cox 
 
Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
 
HONORARY WITNESS ON BEHALF OF THE 
REPUBLIC OF PARAGUAY  
 
By /s/ Nicanor Duarte Frutos 
 
President of the Republic of Paraguay 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the Association shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                           
- 
 
Alcoholic beverages 
 
121                           
- 
 
Tobacco, unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122                           
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525                           
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
        
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
 
Page  11
-
10 - 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718                          
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897                          
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971                          
- 
 
Gold, non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of 
goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation.
 
Page  12
-
11 - 
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying:  (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies.
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
2.78% 
 
Beginning April 15, 2010 
 
 
through April 15, 2027 
 
 
On October 15, 2027 
  2.70 % 
 
2.  
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  13
-
12 - 
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of  withdrawal. 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate.  
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  14
-
13 - 
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Recital (A) (i) of the Preamble to this Agreement 
A.  
Modernization of the Bank Resolution and Deposit Insurance System
1. 
The Board of Directors of BCP has issued resolution No. 6  (duly recorded in its   
Minutes (
Acta
)
No.24 of March 15, 2004) which regulates paragraphs (a), (c), (h) and (j) 
of Article 6 of the Bank Resolution and Deposit Insurance Law through the establishment 
of specific technical criteria for subjecting troubled financial institutions in Paraguay (as 
the term “financial institutions” is defined in Law No. 861/96) to adopt regularization 
actions to improve their financial condition.  
2. 
The Board of Directors of BCP has issued resolution No. 31 (duly recorded in its   
Minutes (
Acta
)
No.25 of March 18, 2004) which regulates Article 20 of the Bank 
Resolution and Deposit Insurance Law by explicitly prohibiting  all financial institutions 
in Paraguay (as the term “financial institutions” is defined in Law No. 861/96) to pledge 
their assets as security for deposits held by individuals and/or legal entities in the 
pertinent financial institution. This prohibition does not prevent financial institutions 
from pledging their assets as security for the payment of mortgage notes (
letras 
hipotecarias
)
issued by the same.  
3. 
(a) The Borrower, through MoF,  and the association of private banks operating 
in Paraguay (which signed the “Preliminary Declaration of Intent” between the MoF and 
said association of banks dated November 6, 2003) have agreed to renegotiate the public 
internal debt represented in the Borrower’s national treasury bonds (the Old Bonds) 
issued pursuant to the Borrower’s laws Nos. 1633/00, 1720/01, 1726/01 and 1857/02 (as 
said laws have been supplemented and amended) through the exchange of the Old Bonds 
with new bonds (the New Bonds) to be issued by the MoF  in accordance with the terms 
and conditions stipulated in said Preliminary Declaration of Intent; and (b) the 
Borrower’s legislature has approved law No. 2336/03 dated December 12, 2003 which, 
inter alia
,
authorizes the Borrower’s executive branch (through the MoF) to issue and 
circulate the New Bonds, and exchange the same with the Old Bonds in accordance with 
the terms and conditions stipulated in the Preliminary Declaration of Intent mentioned in 
(a) herein.  
B. 
Bank Legal, Regulatory and Institutional Framework
4.
 
The Board of Directors of BCP has issued resolution No. 8 (duly recorded in its   
Minutes (
Acta
)
No.92 of November 27, 2003) which establishes norms to be followed by 
all financial institutions in Paraguay  (as the term “financial institutions” is defined in 
Law No. 861/96) concerning, 
inter alia
:
(a)  the classification of said institutions’ assets 
Page  15
-
14 - 
and credit risks; and (b) the definition and recognition of: (i) loan loss reserves; (ii) 
accrued interest payments; and (iii) refinancing operations, all resulting from said 
institutions’ loans to individuals and/or legal entities.  
5. 
The Borrower’s executive branch has furnished to the Borrower’s legislature for, 
approval thereby, the Banking Draft Law.  
6. 
The Borrower’s executive branch has furnished to the Borrower’s legislature for, 
approval thereby, the Anti-Money Laundering Draft Law.
 
7. 
The SB Strategic Plan has been approved by BCP’s Board of Directors.
 
