                                                                                         48849



                                        DATASHEET
                               Ghana-EducationSector Project




                                                  Environmental category: B




Revisedestimateddisbursements (Bank FY/SDRm)
FY                    2008            2009            2010            2011


                 date: October 31 2009

   dicate ifthe restructuring is:

Boardapproved-

Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?           No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                     NIA
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                     No

Reviseduroiect develoument obiective/outcomes:
The revisedProject Development Objectives are to (i)   improve equitable accessto and
completion o fbasic education indeprived districts; and (ii)
                                                           improve quality o f teaching and
learning, management efficiency and relevance o fpost-basic education

Outcomes: Performance and access will be measured by:
(i)PrimaryGrossEnrolmentRateindepriveddistrictsincreases
(ii)GenderParityIndexatPrimaryLevelindepriveddistrictsimproves
(iii)PrimaryCompletionRateindepriveddistrictsincreases.
(iv) SupportedPrograms underTALE show improvementsinteaching, management
      efficiency or learning outcomes
(v)    75 % o fnew polytechnic andpost graduate programs assessedas satisfactory.
(vi) Skills Development Fund(SDF)mechanism is hnctional




                                                                       0.00




                                                iv


                                     Restructuringofthe
                              Ghana-EducationSector Project

                                         Project Paper


A.       Introduction

1.       This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Ghana Education Sector Project (EdSeP), Credit No. 3865-GH
(Project ID P050620) o f SDR 52.7 million and accompanying amendments to the
project's legal documents.

2.       Theproposed changes include: (i)    revisions to the project development objectives;
(ii) introduction o f new activities and improved alignment o f planned activities with the
national sector strategy; (iii) revisions to outcome and output indicators and targets; (iv) a
reallocationo f Credit proceeds; and (v) a two-year extension o f the project's closing date
from October 31,2009 to October 31,201 1.

3.       The revisions inthe development objectives are more consistent with the original
project design and more relevant interms o f the Government's evolving sector priorities.
The reallocation o f funds responds to emerging needs including the need to reconstruct
schools destroyed by floods in2007 and to develop capacities in skills development. The
extension would allow the project to implement some activities that were hinderedby the
slow implementation o f the overall decentralization o f public services, to firm up efforts
in deprived districts and also to better monitor the outcomes of other activities that are
initiatedto achieve the revisedProject Development Objectives (PDOs).


B.       BackgroundandRationalefor Restructuring

Sector Context

4.       Since appraisal, Ghana has enjoyed fast economic growth, and improvements in
accessing basic educational services. As a result, demand for post-basic education has
increased and so has the need to improve links between the world o f work and the world
o f education. The new National Education Reform Program (NERP) attempts to
tackle these challenges in the context o f the decentralization process o f public services
taking place in the broader framework of public administration. Although this process has
not progressed as fast as it had been expected at project appraisal, some new Government
priorities have emergedinthe process, including the needto strengthen fiuther the capacity
at the district levels. This is warranted inview o f the importance o f their role inachieving
more equitable access andalso efficiencies in education

5.      Over the last five years, Ghana has progressed in improving higher education. This
includes increasesin enrollment and private financing o f education as well as innovations
such as the Students' Loan Trust, increase inthe internally generated revenues especially
through user fees. Despite these successes, a widely adopted medium term higher
education financing strategy that focuses on outcomes i s still not formulated for it would
have created undue tensions inthe sector.

6.      On September 11, 2007, the implementation o f the NEW started. The Program
calls for changes in the higher education system to make it more relevant to the key
economic and employment priorities o f the country. Therefore, higher education finance
needs to bedevelopedwithinthis broader policy context.

7.      The economic growth also ledto increaseddemand for skilled professionals which
the existing technical and vocational education institutions cannot fully supply because of
management efficiency short comings and dissociation from market requirements. The
Government i s committed to expand technical and vocational education and skills
training (TVET). This expansion also needs to make vocational and technical skills
training morerelevant andbetter aligned with the requirementso fthejob market.

8.      Following the August 2007 floods, the emergency situation in Northern
Ghana required the fast action o f the Government to focus on the livelihood and access
to services by the affected population. The region also represents the poorest part o f
Ghana. Consequently, the Government initiated several steps, includingrefocusingits own
resources and engaging the development partners to target external funding towards the
Northernregions.

9.      Finally, the Government initiated the revision o f the Education Strategic Plan that
requires new policies and new forms o f financing for all levels, especially for post-basic
and tertiary education.

ProjectBackground

10.     The IDA Executive Directors approved the project on March 9, 2004, and it
became effective on March 25, 2004. The original objectives were to: (i)promote
equitable access to, and efficient delivery o f quality services in pre-tertiary education;
and (ii) innovation, relevance, quality and efficiency in tertiary education. Inthe
         foster
original design the target groups o f the interventions were: (i) and local agencies
                                                                  central
o f education administration and management; (ii)    district education offices, and primary
andjunior secondary schools in 53 deprived districts; and (iii) tertiary institutions o f
                                                                  all
the country. It included three main components (respectively Parts A, B and C in
Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement): (i) capacity buildingpartly for
                                                          sector
the central agencies o f education management, partly for the 53 deprived districts; (ii)   a
pilot programmatic scheme to provide programmatic funding to the 53 deprived districts
to implement activities planned in their Annual Program o f Work; and (iii)        a tertiary
education innovation scheme involving demand driven grants to universities,
polytechnics and private higher education institutions to support institutional initiatives


                                              2

improving teaching, learning and management as well as to start new polytechnics as
well as post-graduate programs.

11.     The project i s in compliance with the key covenants agreed upon in the
Development Credit Agreement, and there are no outstanding audits, although there have
been some delays incompleting some audits and management letters. IDA, however, has
addressed these delays through regular supervision. Schedule 4, Section 2 o f the
Agreement required that by June 1, 2005 the Borrower submit to IDA a sustainable and
equitable financial strategy for the tertiary education sub-sector and implement this
strategy taking into account IDA'Scomments. Some elements o f a financial strategy have
been introduced, but the development o f a comprehensive strategy was postponed. The
Government proposed this postponement so that the financial strategy i s better aligned
with its NEW andhumanresource development strategy. Accordingly, the Government
requested that a new intermediary outcome indicator will target the adoption o f a higher
education policy with targets on equity, efficiency, quality, relevance, and accountability.

12.     The project has performedwell interms o f achieving the key objectives related to
basic education, although it had slow disbursement in the Pilot Programmatic Scheme
component o f the project. This i s largely due to the slower than expected overall
decentralization process of public services in the broader framework o f public
administration reform agenda. The activities piloted by the project underlined the
importance o f the role o f districts inachievingmore equitable access and also efficiencies
in education. Consequently, improving the capabilities of the deprived districts has proven
to be more important inachieving the PDO.

13.     Education was clearly ahead o f the rest o f the public sectors by defining sector-
specific roles and responsibilities for central, regional and district level governmental
agencies, by decentralizing the Education Management Information System, by carrying
out regional sector performance reviews and by empowering the District Education
Offices to define and implement their Annual Programs o f Work. Many o f these were
strongly assisted by EdSeP financed activities. However, other key steps in the
decentralization that were beyond education were constrained by Governmental inaction,
such as the division o f work between District Assemblies and District level
administrative units, the larger scale devolution o f financial resources or regulations for
local level revenue generation. In all, the EdSeP has been instrumental in preparing the
various sector agencies to an eventual overall decentralization program, consequently, the
sector expects less disruptions in service delivery when all hurdles in front o f
decentralization are removed.

14.    Inlinewithits generalpolicyto providefocused support to therehabilitationofthe
Northern regions, the Government requested that districts affected by the floods receive
more support to reconstruct schools damagedbythe floods through their Annual Programs
o f Work. Action to refocus IDA to attend rebuilding destroyed schools is not only a
sensible approach to achievethe PDO but is also clearly pro-poor.




                                              3

15.      At tertiarylevel, the establishment ofthe Teaching andLearning InnovationFund
(TALIF) contributed to the improved policy environment by introducing demand-side
financing. Its implementation progressed well. However, measuring the expected
outcomes on tertiary education has remained challenging. The key reasons have included
the fact that the TALIF design entailed a demand-drivenapproach in which institutions
themselves define their own strategic objectives and central priorities play less important
roles in the institutional proposals. Secondly, the originally agreed outcome indicators
required a lag-time between investments and results that would be longer thanthe EdSeP
implementation period itself. Thirdly, some o f the original indicators lacked realism, as
they targeted improved employment at times when there are factors beyond tertiary
education constraining employment opportunities.

16.      At mid-tern review', the Government decided to set up a more rigorous
implementation schedule for pre-tertiary education, concentrate capacity building on 53
deprived districts and strengthen monitoring and evaluation for the tertiary education
component. The impact o f these changes has started to show during the second half o f
2007 as disbursement has accelerated and the implementation o f capacity building has
speededup. Based on the experience o f four years of implementation, the elaborate and
complex monitoring system that was built on the original results framework calls for a
simplifiedandmore focused outcome-oriented results framework.2

17.     As at December 2008, total disbursement was SDR 27.7 million, representing
52.6 percent o f the total Credit proceeds o f SDR 52.7 million with commitments
amounting to SDR 6.9 million, leaving an uncommitted but planned balance o f SDR 18
million. At the component level, disbursements were 65%, 26%, and 70% for the
Capacity Building, Pilot Programmatic Scheme and Tertiary Education Innovation
components, respectively.


C.      ProposedChanges

18.     Outline below i s a summary o f the changes proposed inthe restructuring:

        (a)       The revisedProject DevelopmentObjectivesare to (i) equitable      improve
                  access to and completion o f basic education in deprived districts; and (ii)
                  to improve quality o f teaching and learning, management efficiency and
                  relevance ofpost-basic ed~cation.~

        (b)       The Results Framework is revised to support and measure progress
                  towards achieving the PDO. The Results Framework reflects the
                  adherence to three key principles: (1) they represent a subset o f indicators


1The Implementation Status Reportrating at mid-term and the previous reportingperiodwas Marginally
Unsatisfactory.
 Followingthe implementation o f key changes agreed at the mid-term review, the project rating was
upgraded to Marginally Satisfactory.
 Especially tertiary education and technical and vocational education and training.

                                                    4

                defined in the Education Strategic Plan, which are reviewed annually
                during the Sector Performance Review; (2) they are more consistent with
                the project's scope and targeting; and (3) they are harmonized with the
                NEW. See Annex 1 for a complete Results Framework. The revised
                Results Framework will be also incorporated into the updated Project
                Operational Manual.

         (c)    A new Skills DevelopmentFund (SDF) sub-componentis introduced.
                The Government is committed to expand technical, vocational education
                and skills training (TVET). This expansion also needs to make skills
                training more relevant and better aligned with the requirementso f the job
                market. To achieve these goals, the Skills Development Fund, a demand-
                driven and performance-based funding mechanism for TVET institutions
                i s being developed and adopted by the Government. Training providers
                including institutes and centers will be eligible to access the Fund
                according to proposals that are evaluated based on set criteria by a
                committee. The Fund will be a subcomponent within the Sector Capacity
                BuildingComponent. The Council of Technical Vocational Educationand
                Training (COTVET) under the Ministry o f Education (MoE) will be
                responsible to          manage the Fund. Responsibilities for financial
                management, including managing the flow o f hnds and in fiduciary
                oversight will be given to the Financial and Procurement Management
                Unit under the MoE which has beenresponsible for the SCB component
                since project effectiveness. Details about the Skills Development Fund
                mechanism will be presented to IDA for approval and will be integrated in
                an updated Project Operational Manual satisfactory to IDA, as a condition
                o f disbursement o f IDA-financed grants under the SDFa4

         (d)    A legal covenant on Higher Education Finance Strategy is dropped.
                Paragraph 2 o f Schedule 4 to the Development Credit Agreement required
                the Borrower to submit to the Bank by June 1, 2005, a sustainable and
                equitable strategy for the tertiary education sub-sector and thereafter
                implement such strategy. Subsequently, the Bank team agreed with the
                Government's request that tertiary education financing should be aligned
                with its tertiary education policy and with the country's general economic
                and social priorities with the key objectives o f the NERP. The tertiary
                education strategy will thus be developed and monitored as an
                intermediary outcome o f the project and the dated legal covenant
                containingthis requirement will be dropped.



         (e)    Funds are reallocated between and the disbursement categories to
                support the proposed changes. A reallocation across categories is


 DANIDAis also planning the creation o f a funding mechanism for skills development within its overall
business development support to Ghana; the plannedcreation of the Fundis expected to lead to ajoint
DANIDNWorldBank support either throughjoint or parallel co-financing.

                                                  5

                   requiredfor the new skills training activities, includingdeveloping, testing
                   and piloting the Skills Development Fund mechanism estimated at US$
                   0.8 million, and for the reconstruction o f the schools destroyed by the
                   flood estimated at US$7.5 million equivalent.' Annex 2 provides a
                    summary o f the original versus the proposed project costs by category and
                   bycomponent.

                   The project closing date is extended from October 31,2009 to October
                   31, 2011. The full completion of the school rebuildingand re-equipment
                    as well as the full completion o f the skills training pilot (including
                    assessing the early impact on the propensity o f increased enrollment)
                   require that the project implementation be extended by 24 months. A
                   detailed implementation schedule will be developed and integrated in the
                   updated Project Operation Manual. The extension requires a new time-
                   based results matrix, agreed with the Government. The time-based results
                   matrix i s attached inAnnex 3.



D.        Analysis

19.       The restructured project would be consistent with the strategic priorities of the
current Joint Assistance Strategy, Ghana's Growth and Povedy Reduction Strategy, and
the revisedNational EducationReformProgram.

20.       The environment category would remain "B". The project restructuringwould not
entail a change in the scope o f the project in terms o f its procurement categories and
priorities. Rather, it would incur greater emphasis on the reconstruction o f schools that
were destroyed by the flood. The Ministry o f Education, Youth and Sports issued a
detailed Environmental and Social Management Framework (ESMF) for the EdSeP in
December 2003. The ESMF analyzed the areas targeted for interventions and possible
construction activities, made recommendations for project site selections, resettlement
issues, sources and quality o f raw materials, operations and waste management. Based on
the recommendations, the MoE set standards for schools and for district education offices
as well as for the Environmental Impact Assessment procedure for each sites. The
recipient will review the effectiveness o f the ESMF and updates and discloses as
necessary.

21.       The proposed changes would not have any major impacts in the original
economic, financial, technical, institutional or social aspects o f the project. The
restructuring would not involve any exceptions to Bankpolicies.




 The estimated allocation for the Skills Development Fundwillprovide funding to pilot the mechanism
with a few training institutes. Inthe meantime, the Government is considering providing parallel financing
to other institutions through the same Fundmechanism.

                                                     6

22.     The proposed changes will improve the Project's relevance in the context o f the
NEW. Especially the fundingmechanism for skills development will allow a potential
scale-up to cover a large section o f TVET programs.

23.     The proposed Skills Development Fundwill also allow harmonization with other
donor partners, including possibly DANIDA, the African Development Bank and the
Japanese International Cooperation Agency, all o f whom have interest in supporting
skills development.


E.      ExpectedOutcomes

24.     The purpose o f revising the existing outcome indicators i s to better align them
with the corresponding activities and to simplify the results matrix. As a result of the
simplification, some indicators have been eliminated from the results matrix. The revised
indicators are sufficient indeterminingeffectiveness and efficiency o f project effort. The
modifications to the key performance indicators are attached in Annex 4 o f this Project
Paper.


F.      BenefitsandRisks

25.     By focusing on 53 deprived districts, the direct benefits will go to the people
living in these districts, however, since these districts are lagging behind the national
average, the nation as a whole will benefit from raising the overall performance o f the
education sector.

26.     It is expected that during the pilot phase up to 5 technical training institutes and
up to 5,000 trainees will benefit from the newly established Skills Development Fund.
However, the funding mechanism would facilitate the support to many more institutes
andtrainees as more Governmental and external fundingwould be channeled through the
Fundand the Fundwould have a significantly larger number of institutions and trainees
benefitting still before EdSeP i s beingclosed.

27.     Most risks identified during appraisal have turned out to be less significant than
anticipated. However, as in other countries, decentralization process i s slower than
expected and particularly information systems to provide timely information for
management decisions remain slow and inadequate. There i s a strong cooperation
between the GoG and the Development Partners around ajoint Education Sector Group
which i s committed to addressthis problem.


G.      Procurement

28.     The proposed changes in restructuring the project will not affect the established
processes and procedures which are currently in use for implementing the main project.

                                             7

The existing procurement arrangements assessed remain adequate and acceptable and
will continue to beusedafter the restructuring.

29.      The new Skills Development Fund sub-component which is being introduced
aims at expanding technical, vocational education and skills training (TVET). It i s a
demand-driven program to be implementedby selected technical training institutions and
identified private sector bodies. Procurement under this new sub-component will be
managed by the GESFinancial Procurement Management Unit, the selected institutions
and identified private sector institutions. Depending on agreed needs, it i s expected that
procurement packages under ICB and all consultancy service contracts will be managed
centrally by the GES/FPMU. Other procurement will be processed by the TVET
institutions. Under the provisions o f the Ghana Public Procurement Act, these institutions
have inplace procurement units and Entity Tender Committees and will be supported by
the GESFPMU.

30.      Procurement will continue to be guided by the Bank's procurement guidelines for
all contracts as follows: "Guidelines: Procurement under BRD Loans and IDA Credits"
dated May 2004, revised October 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004, revisedOctober 2006.

31.      Procurement expected to be processed by private sector entities benefiting from
this sub-componentwill be guidedbyCommercialPractices acceptable to the Bank.

32.      Insummary the assessment of the procurement management arrangements under
the project concludes that there are systems in place that satisfy the Bank's minimum
requirement. Overallprocurement management arrangement i s ratedas Satisfactory.


H.       FinancialManagement

33.      The changes proposed for the restructuring will not affect the established
processes and procedures which are currently in use for implementingthe main project.
The existing financial management systems were assessed and found to be adequate.
Responsibilities for financial management, including managing the flow o f funds and in
fiduciary oversight will be given to the Financial and Procurement Management Unit
under the MoE which has been responsible for the SCB component since project
effectiveness. Details about the Skills DevelopmentFundmechanism will be presented to
IDA for approval and will be integrated in an updated Project Operational Manual
satisfactory to IDA, as a condition o f disbursement o f IDA-financed grants under the
SDF. The SDF sub-projects will be treated like any other subproject inthe sense that the
expenditure i s not the lump sum transfer a sub-project grant but its end use for subproject
activities and costs as definedinthe approved subproject proposal.

34.      Since the SDF i s a new activity the internal control procedures are being
developed andwill have approved by IDA prior to disbursement and implementation.



                                             8

35. Currently the FM performance has been rated marginally satisfactory based on
RAPMAN-PRIMAdatabase.




                                    9

                                          Annex 1:RevisedResultsFramework




Project Development        Improve equitable access to and completion of basic education indepri
       Objective            quality of teaching and learning, management efficiency and relevanc of post-basic education
    PDO Outcomes                                      Outcome Indicators                                     Use of Information
1.Improve equitable       1.1 Primary Gross Enrolment Rate indeprived districts increases                Establish contribution o f
access to, and            1.2 Gender Parity Index at Primary Level in deprived districts improves.       project to higher level
completion of basic       1.3 Primary Completion Rate indeprived districts increases                     objectives set inthe
education in deprived                                                                                    Education Strategic Plan
districts.                                                                                               and inthe National
                                                                                                         EducationReform
2. Improve quality of     2.1. Supported Programs under TALIF show improvements inteaching,              Program.
teaching and                   management efficiency or learning outcomes.
learning,                 2.2. 75% o fnewpolytechnic and post graduate programs assessedas
management                     satisfactory.
efficiency and            2.3. Skills Development Fund(SDF) mechanism is functional.
relevance of post-
basic education.'


Sector Capacity                                                                                          Strengthen accountability
Building                                                                                                 o f educationmanagement
1.Inbasic education,      1.1 Implementannualprograms o f work (APW) indeprived districts to             at central and local levels.
capacities o f DE0             improve access and gender parity.
offices inthe 53          1.2 Targeted deprived districts have improved resource management
deprived districts             capacities.
increased.                1.3 % o f targeted districts for which the EducationManagement
                               Information System is usedto generate annual reports.
                                                                                                         Provide information for
2. Inpost-basic           2.   Technical training institutes supported by SDF achieve 80% o f the        systemic scale up and
education, capacities          targets o ftheir institutionaldevelopment plans.                          basis for engagement o f
o f selected Technical                                                                                   other development
Training Institutes                                                                                      partners.
increased.
Pilot Programmatic        1.1 Gross Admission Rate to Primary Iindeprived districts improves             Provide GoG with lessons
Scheme                    1.2 Gross Enrollment Rate at JHS Iindeprived districts increases               on how inthe context o f
                          1.3 Gender parity index at JHS level indeprived districts improves.            decentralization, service
                          1.4 67 schools inthe NorthernRegion re-constructed.                            deliverycanbe improved.
                          1.5 Capitation grant piloted indeprived Districts and adopted for national
                               scale up.
Teaching and              1.1 TALIF financing and project assessment mechanisms are functional           Provide GoG with
Learning Innovation       1.2 % o f HIV/AIDS specific measures assessedsatisfactory                      appropriate accountability
Fund(TALIF)               1.3 Higher educationpolicy i s aligned to principles o f equity, efficiency,   measures for assessing for
                               relevance, quality and accountability.                                    higher education
                                                                                                         performance.




             6
             'Unlessindicated otherwise, targets inthe table are set as o f the Closing o fthe Project.
              Especially inTVET and at tertiary level.

                                                                 10

       1I




d
m
n

Y
El


.I
c,


0
daiea
d




a
a

$
W
u
a
e
.I
c,

v2
a

u
0
m
1
c,
3;
a
..
c'1


2
3El




            *

      I  L




..
rn

I    I /I




             m
            d

c
8
?g ?
n u
  +
E "




L
m
?





               G
               c




2
E&    %a %a
      E  E

Li
5
I)
3
3
a3
23
a


                            Annex 5: Skills Development Fund

Skills Development Fund

1.    The establishment o f a Skills Development Fund (SDF) is the Government's
request to set up a demand-driven funding mechanism as a sustainable source o f
financing technical and vocational education and training (TVET). Such a mechanism i s
strongly owned by the Government as it appeared first in the 2002 Education Reform
Report:  and later inthe 2004 TVET policy framework document,"                 The intention with
the SDF is to unify and supplement public financing for TVET as well as make it easier
for funds to be allocated in line with both general national socio-economic priorities but
also sector priorities. A SDF mechanism would draw on a variety o f income sources,
including training levies, government budgetary allocation, development partner funding
and income generated by the fund itself. It i s expected that the Government would
provide funding from 2010 and there i s also interest by other donors, including
DANIDA.

2.    The EdSeP sub-component will focus on establishing a solid fund mechanism with
transparent processes. I t will involve various government agencies, training providers and
employers in the process. The intended beneficiaries o f the SDF also include TVET
providers, trainees and employers. The objectives o f the SDF include the improvement o f
productivity andthe increased employment o f skilled labor inselected sectors.

3.    The Council for Technical Vocational Education and Training (COTVET) (which
includes key GoG and non-governmental stakeholders, including industry) will have a
keyrole indefining(and redefining) priority areas for the SDF. The COTVET will set up
a SDF Secretariat which will administer the SDF as part o f the Sector Capacity Building
Component. Thus, the MoE and the Financial Procurement and Management Unit will
exercise fiduciary oversight for the SDF.

4.    The pilot would run for approximately 12 months, after which it is expected that
COTVET would scale up and manage the Fund, possibly with WB as well as DANIDA
short-term support. Duringthe period up to December 2009 it i s envisaged that the GoG
(and COTVET) would play a key role in getting an industry training levy established
which would provide sustainable financing to the SDF. Eventually, the SDF would
become akey funding instrumentto sustainably support skills development inGhana.

5.    The membership to the Board o fthe SDFwould be broadbased to avoid conflict o f
interest and there would be very strong employer involvement in managing the fund;
COTVET would have a key role to play on the SDF Board. The pilot SDF would be
sector neutral: public and private sector TVET institutions would be eligible, as would
micro, small, medium and large enterprises.

  GoG (2002) Meeting the Challenges of Education in the Twenty First Century. Report of the President's
committee onthe Reviewo f EducationReforms inGhana (October, 2002): Accra.
10GoG (2004) Draft TVETPolicyFrameworkfor Ghana (August2004), MoEYS:Accra.

                                                22

6.    The operation o f the SDF would be clearly defined and agreement would be
reached at the highest level (e.g., COTVET Board, Ministers and Chief Directors o f
MoE, MoESW, MoTI, MoF, GEA, AGI etc). The specific activities for which financial
allocations could be made would be clearly defined (e.g. financing the needs o f TVET
institutions for equipment, raw materials, teaching materials and wages o f trainers;
developing training and retraining programs for public and private companies;
scholarships based on the financial needs o f eligible students; vocational awareness
campaigns in the media; and training needs surveys). Furthermore the SDF would be
specific about who could benefit from the fund. The DANIDA consultants proposed that
the SDF should consist o ftwo funding windows:


         Support to training providers (government and non-government institutions) for
        the development o f new (short) courses including support for upgrading and
        training o f teaching staff at the training institutions.
        Training incentives to enterprises (in the medium and small scale sector)
        including tailor-made training with focus on product development, productivity,
        maintenance, and quality assurance on the basis o f an overall business
        devehpment plan (for enterprises or sector organizations). Support can include
        identification o f training needs on the basis o f HRD plans and training needs
        assessments at enterprise or sector level.

7.    During the pilot of the SDF, according to the request by the Government, WE3
support would be focused on support to government training providers under MoE (as the
EdSEP - which i s being restructured to accommodate a SDF pilot - i s currently under
MoE). The Fund would initially support a small number o f training providers who will
develop proposals for developing linkages with industries, expand admissions and
graduations, improve skill levels o f graduates. The objective o f the pilot i s to assess the
effectiveness o f this type o f funding as opposed to traditional input-drivenpublic support
to TVET providers and to refine the SDF mechanism according to the lessons learned
duringthe pilot phase.

8.    The allocation mechanism o f the SDF would help develop a demand-driven
approach and not perpetuate a supply-drivenone. The decision o f SDF allocations would
focus on the planned results and outcomes that the applicants aim to achieve. The design
o f the SDF should be such that it would boost not only supply o f skills training but also
demand for it. It would be a dynamic hnding system in which the providers o f the
endowment will be able to define and redefine priority areas.

9.    Eligible beneficiaries would define their plans, submit proposals and independent
expert committee would decide about the relevance, quality, and eligibility o f the
applicants/applications. In the medium-long term, training institutions could have their
financial allocations from the SDF linked to their performance (including the
performance o f their graduates), for which benchmarks and indicators would have to be



                                                23

developed and monitored. The pilot SDF would also help to develop various monitoring
approaches and indicators.

10. Initially, the SDF would have an upper ceiling o f about US$150,000 per proposal.
IDA would finance up to five proposals in the first year. In addition to IDA, it is
envisioned that the Government would also use the SDF mechanism to extend the
numberofpilots.

11. Procurement under this new component will be managed by the GESRPMU, the
selected institutions and identified private sector institutions. Depending on agreed needs,
it is expected that procurement packages under ICB and all consultancy service contracts
will be managed centrally by the GES/FPMU. Other procurement will be processed by
the TVET institutions. Under the provisions o f the PPA, these institutions have in place
procurement units and Entity Tender Committees (ETC) and will be supported by the
GESRPMU.

12. Regarding Financial Management, SDF funds are part o f the Sector Capacity
Building Component. The details of the transfer i.e., lump sum, tranches etc will be
addressed inthe approved SDF Operations Manual. The internal controls specifically for
the use of the SDF to beneficiary agencies or training institutions is now being finalized
inthe SDF Operations Manual and this is a condition for disbursement. Disbursements
for SDF will be conditionedupon the Bank approval o fthe SDF Operations Manual.

13. As a next step, the SDF mechanisms as well as the monitoring and evaluation
system need to be urgentlyset up with latest internationalbest practices. This mechanism
would be definedina SDF manual, ina TORfor the implementingagency inthe setup o f
a decision making committee (SDF Committee) and in the M&E manual. This
documentation needs to be agreed upon in a workshop that would include key decision
makers from the GoG andfrom the industries.




                                              24

