Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H173-NEP 
 
Development Grant Agreement 
 
(Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL  
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated August 1, 2005 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H173-NEP 
 
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated  August 1, 2005, between the KINGDOM OF NEPAL (the 
Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association). 
 
WHEREAS the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, 
to extend the Grant provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Grant) to the 
Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.0
1. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through May 1, 2004), 
with the modifications set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Challenge Fund” means the fund created under the Project for the 
purpose of financing Subprojects (as hereinafter defined); 
 
(b) 
“Economic Advisory Services Unit” or “EASU” means the Economic 
Advisory Services Unit to be established within the NPC (as hereinafter defined) 
Secretariat for the purpose of, 
inter alia,
 coordinating and supervising the implementation 
of the Project;  
 
(c) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(d) 
“Fiscal Year” or “FY” means the twelve (12) month period 
corresponding to each of the Recipient’s fiscal years, which period commences and ends 
in mid-July of each calendar year; 
 
(e) 
“MOGA” means the Ministry of General Administration of the 
Recipient, or any successor thereto; 
 
(f) 
“National Planning Commission” or “NPC” means the National Planning 
Commission of the Recipient, or any successor thereto; 
 
(g) 
“Nepal Rastra Bank” means the central bank of the Recipient established 
and operating pursuant to the provisions of the Recipient’s Nepal Rastra Bank Act,  
2058 (2001); 
 
(h) 
“Operational Guidelines” means the Operational Guidelines to be 
prepared by the Recipient and setting out details of procedures, guidelines, timetables and 
other institutional and implementation arrangements for the carrying out of the Project 
(including without limitation guidelines for preparing proposals for Subprojects, entry 
eligibility criteria for Subprojects and operational modalities (including procedures for 
disbursements of Subproject funds), internal control mechanism and monitoring, audit 
and reporting arrangements for Subprojects), as the same may be updated from time to 
time with the agreement of the Association; 
 
(i) 
“Participating Entity” means any ministry, department or agency within a 
ministry, or any other agency or entity which participates in the carrying out of a 
Subproject; 
 
(j) 
“Procurement Plan” means the procurement plan to be prepared by the 
Recipient and covering the initial twelve (12) month period (or longer) of Project 
implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding twelve (12) month 
periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 
(k) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(l) 
“Subproject” means an economic reform activity to be carried out under 
Part E of the Project; 
 
(m) 
“Subproject Agreement” means a memorandum of understanding or a 
similar arrangement to be executed between the Recipient and each Participating Entity 
for the carrying out of its Subproject; and 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
(n) 
“Technical Assistance Steering Committee” or “TASC” means the 
Technical Assistance Steering Committee to be established by the Recipient to, 
inter alia,
 
take decisions on proposals for Subprojects. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Grant 
 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to two million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,000,000). 
 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn from the Grant 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for carrying out the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in Nepal Rastra Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2008, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Recipient of 
such later date. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) The Recipient shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the amount of the Grant not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the 
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above.  
The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.05 of this Agreement. 
 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Recipient; and (iii) in Dollars or in such other eligible currency or 
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.05. Commitment charges shall be payable semiannually on January 1 
and July 1 in each year. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, shall 
carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the implementation program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the Association not 
later than four (4) months after the date of the preceding Procurement Plan, for the 
Association’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such 
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Association, a 
plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Recipient on said plan. 
 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in accordance with 
consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association, adequate to 
reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any 
part thereof. 
 
(b) The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) audited, in accordance with consistently applied 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such Fiscal 
Year (or such other period agreed to by the Association),  
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such Fiscal Year (or other 
period agreed to by the Association), as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements by said auditors, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records and accounts, and the audit of such financial 
statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: 
 
(i) 
retain, or cause to be retained, until at least one (1) year after the 
Association has received the audit report for, or covering, the 
Fiscal Year in which the last withdrawal from the Grant Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(iii) 
ensure that such statements of expenditure are included in the 
audit for each Fiscal Year (or other period agreed to by the 
Association) referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section. 
 
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s progress reporting 
obligations set out in paragraphs 9 and 10 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said Report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of such funds;  
 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said Report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said Report. 
 
(b) 
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the end of the first Fiscal Year 
trimester after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the 
first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first Fiscal Year trimester; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association not 
later than forty-five (45) days after each subsequent Fiscal Year trimester, and shall cover 
such Fiscal Year trimester. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effectiveness; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(b) of the General 
Conditions: 
 
(a) 
The Procurement Plan satisfactory to the Association has been prepared; 
 
(b) 
The TASC has been established; 
 
(c) 
The EASU has been established with an adequate number of professional 
staff with skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, including without limitation: (i) a project coordinator; (ii) a deputy project 
Page  8
-
7
-
coordinator; (iii) a financial officer; (iv) a procurement specialist; and (v) support staff as 
needed; 
 
(d) 
The Operational Guidelines satisfactory to the Association have been 
prepared; and 
 
(e) 
The format for Financial Monitoring Reports satisfactory to the 
Association has been prepared. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
His Majesty’s Government of Nepal 
 
Singha Durbar 
Kathmandu 
 
Nepal 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(977-1) 4259-891 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
   Telex: 
 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
   248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
     64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Kathmandu, Kingdom of Nepal, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
KINGDOM OF NEPAL 
 
By /s/ Bhanu Prasad Acharya 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Tashi Tenzing 
Acting Country Director 
Nepal 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1  
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant 
 
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the Grant to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Grant Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1) Goods 
 
 
 
150,000 
  100% 
 
under Parts A-D 
 
of the Project 
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
Services 
   240,000 
  
100% 
 and 
Studies 
 
under Parts A-D 
 
of the Project 
 
(3) 
Training, 
Study 
Tours 
   150,000 
  
100% 
 and 
Workshops 
 
under Parts A-D 
 
of the Project 
 
(4) 
Goods, 
 
  1,330,000 
  
100% 
 Consultants’ 
Services, 
 Studies, 
Training, 
 
Study Tours and  
 
Workshops for Subprojects  
 
Under Part E of the Project  
 (Challenge 
Fund) 
 
(5) 
Incremental 
    
30,000 
  
100% 
 Operating 
Costs 
 
(6) Unallocated 
 
 
 
100,000
100% 
 
TOTAL                        2,000,000
Page  11
-
10 
-
2. 
For the purposes of
 this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means 
costs of the operation and maintenance of facilities, vehicles and equipment used by the 
EASU for Project implementation (including without limitation payments for office 
rental, utilities, fuel for vehicles and office consumables). 
 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
 
(a) 
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR80,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (2), (3) and (5) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but on or after July 16, 2005; and 
 
(b) 
payments made for any Subproject unless and until: (i) the proposal for 
such Subproject has been approved by the Association; and (ii) the Recipient and the 
Participating Entity have executed a Subproject Agreement for such Subproject in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association and furnished a copy thereof to the 
Association. 
 
4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services of consulting firms costing 
less than $200,000 equivalent per contract; (d) training, study tours and workshops; and 
(e) Incremental Operating Costs; all under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Recipient. 
 
5. 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount of the Grant 
was used in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association for deposit 
into the Grant Account, an amount equivalent to the amount so used. 
 
Page  12
-
11 
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Recipient in strengthening its capacity 
to implement economic reforms aimed at improving service delivery, public sector 
management, increasing inclusion and reducing government intervention in the economy 
and putting the Recipient on a higher growth path. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective: 
 
Part A
:
Improved Governance and Public Sector Management
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for human resource management and 
development, including: (i) provision of support where necessary for communicating and 
implementing policy changes envisaged under the proposed Civil Service Amendment 
Act, Governance Act, and Umbrella Public Administration/Management Act; 
 
(ii) strengthening MOGA’s capacity to manage an integrated human resource function, 
and to support the Administrative Reform Committee and the Administrative Reform 
Commission Monitoring Committee in monitoring progress on reform; (iii) support for 
civil service reform in the areas of wage decompression, position reclassification, 
performance management, pension reform and health insurance; (iv) expansion of human 
resource management information system; and (v) establishment of a transparent and 
effective recruitment, transfer and promotion process. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for strengthening anti-corruption initiatives, 
including: (i) support to the institutions charged with enforcement, prevention and public 
awareness, such as the Commission for the Investigation of Abuse of Authority, the 
National Vigilance Centre, to expand institutional reach; and (ii) support for analysis and 
implementation of reforms aimed at changing business practices to ensure transparency 
and accountability. 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for implementing public procurement 
legislation, including: (i) support to the proposed procurement regulatory body that deals 
with public procurement policy and oversight and independent review panel; and  
(ii) support to the capacity building in procurement. 
 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance for improving financial accountability, 
including: (i) support for implementation of the development action plans resulting from 
the country financial accountability assessment; and (ii) updating reviews of the 
Recipient’s fiduciary risk assessment. 
 
Page  13
-
12 
-
Part B
:
Accelerated Privatization
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for privatization of the following key public 
enterprises: (i) Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (RNAC); (ii) Nepal Oil Corporation 
(NOC); and (iii) Nepal Telecom (NT). 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for changes to the legislative and institutional 
framework for implementing privatization, including the creation of a separate body for 
privatization. 
 
Part C
:
Improved Service Delivery
1. 
Provision of technical assistance for improving institutions to deliver better 
services, including: (i) support to analysis and implementation of the institutional 
framework to support decentralized recruitment; and (ii) management of local cadres and 
support to line ministries to re-engineer business processes for better planning and 
coordination of activities including better information management and monitoring. 
 
2. 
Provision of technical assistance for private health sector assessment to 
recommend appropriate public private partnership models for the health sector, including: 
(i) assessment of the health sector market; (ii) survey of private sector providers;  
(iii) assessment of views and perceptions of policy makers and stakeholders in public and 
private sectors; (iv) survey of pharmaceutical companies and their impact on the health of 
poor and vulnerable populations; and (v) review of past and existing public private 
partnership models (such as contracting in/out specific health services, health facilities, 
social marketing and franchising models). 
 
3. 
Provision of technical assistance for review of health sector regulatory 
provisions, including: (i) gaps in legal bases of health policies, reform programs and 
actions; (ii) existing legal provisions that facilitate or constrain service delivery, including 
training and deployment of service providers; (iii) gaps in environmental and 
occupational hazard aspects in health care; (iv) gaps in existing health system including 
decentralization; and (v) regulation of private health care providers in terms of quality, 
standards, pricing and other practices that affect the poor. 
 
4. 
Provision of technical assistance for capacity building for community 
management, including capacity building of government officials, school management 
committees, including their Community School National Network and support 
organizations for the new mode of service delivery. 
 
5. 
Provision of technical assistance for development of the legal and institutional 
framework for the establishment of an autonomous entity, HIV/AIDS Trust, including:  
(i) comprehensive assessment of the institutional capacity of organizations involved in 
HIV/AIDS activities (including public, private, non-profit and international partners);  
(ii) development of suitable institutional options and associated costing implications; and 
Page  14
-
13 
-
(iii) review of staffing issues (including public service rules, human resource issues and 
pay scales). 
 
Part D
:
Implementation of Strategic Communications Program
Undertaking a strategic communications campaign program aimed at raising 
awareness of the benefits of economic reform and building consensus around reform 
actions, including: (i) assessment of the communications needs, identification of 
stakeholders and issues, determination of communication strategies, and carrying out of a 
communications audit; (ii) public relations campaign; (iii) dialogue between government 
representatives and reform stakeholders; and (iv) discussions among government, 
employers and unions on the reform process. 
 
Part E
:
Challenge Fund
Support of other activities aimed at implementing economic reforms, to be 
selected in accordance with eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Guidelines. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2008. 
 
Page  15
-
14 
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with the 
provisions of this Schedule. 
 
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule. 
 
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of particular contracts, 
have the meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Works and Services (other 
than Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, contracts shall be awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2. 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
(a) 
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National Competitive Bidding and 
the following additional provisions.  
 
(b) 
In order to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad 
consistency with the provisions of Section 1 of the Procurement Guidelines: 
 
Page  16
-
15 
-
(i) 
invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely 
circulated national daily newspaper, at least thirty (30) days prior 
to the deadline for the submission of bids; 
 
(ii) 
bid documents shall be prepared in accordance with the sample 
for the Project approved by the Association; 
 
(iii) 
bid documents shall be made available, by mail or in person, to 
all who are willing to pay the required fee; 
 
(iv) 
evaluation of bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format and specified 
period agreed with the Association; 
 
(v) 
bids shall be opened in public in one place, immediately after the 
deadline for submission of bids; 
 
(vi) 
no firm, regardless of its class of registration, shall be denied the 
participation in bidding for reasons unrelated to its capability and 
resources to successfully perform the contract, nor shall it be 
disqualified for such reasons; 
 
(vii) 
foreign bidders shall not be precluded from bidding and no 
preference of any kind shall be given to national bidders; 
 
(viii) 
qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried 
out) shall be stated in the bidding documents, and if a 
registration process is required, a foreign firm declared as the 
lowest evaluated bidder shall be given a reasonable opportunity 
of registering, without let or hindrance; 
 
(ix) 
contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders; 
 
(x) 
post-bidding negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest 
evaluated bidders or any other bidders; 
 
(xi) 
bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison 
with an official estimate without the prior concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(xii) 
contracts shall not be awarded on the basis of nationally 
negotiated rates; 
 
(xiii) 
re-bidding shall not be carried out without the prior concurrence 
of the Association; 
Page  17
-
16 
-
(xiv) 
all bidders/contractors shall provide bid/performance security as 
indicated in the bidding/contract documents; 
 
(xv) 
a
bidder’s bid security shall apply only to a specific bid, and a 
contractor’s performance security shall apply only to the specific 
contract under which it was furnished; 
 
(xvi) 
split award or lottery in award of contracts shall not be carried 
out. When two or more bidders quote the same lowest price, an 
investigation shall be made to determine any evidence of 
collusion, following which: (A) if collusion is determined, the 
parties involved shall be disqualified and the award shall then be 
made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder; and  
(B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids 
shall be invited after receiving the concurrence of the 
Association; 
 
(xvii) 
extension of bid validity shall not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for 
extension if it is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all 
subsequent requests for extension irrespective of the period; 
 
(xviii)  bids shall not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or 
discount over the estimated cost; and 
 
(xix) 
there shall not be any restrictions on the means of delivery of the 
bids. 
 
2. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
 
3. Direct 
Contracting
Goods which the Association agrees meet the requirements for Direct 
Contracting may be procured in accordance with the provisions of said procurement 
method (including without limitation Direct Contracting to local communities). 
 
Page  18
-
17 
-
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection. 
 
2. 
For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines, the short list of 
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract may 
comprise entirely national consultants. 
 
B. Other 
Procedures
1.
 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget, Least-cost Selection, or Selection Based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
2.
 
Single Source Selection
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the requirements of 
 
paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set forth in the first sentence 
of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under contracts awarded 
to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.2 and 5.3 of 
the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances described in paragraph 5.4 of the 
Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded to individual consultants on a 
single-source basis. 
 
Section IV
.
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
A. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association: 
 
(a) 
each contract for goods procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; 
 
Page  19
-
18 
-
(b) 
each contract for goods procured on the basis of National Competitive 
Bidding and estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more; 
 
(c) 
the first three (3) contracts for goods procured on the basis of Shopping, 
regardless of value; 
 
(d) 
the first three (3) contracts for goods procured on the basis of Direct 
Contracting, regardless of value; 
 
(e) e
ach contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm and estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more; 
 
(f) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by a firm procured on 
the basis of Single Source Selection and estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more; and 
 
(g) 
each contract for consultants’ services provided by an individual and 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more.  With respect to each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual and estimated to cost the equivalent of 
less than $50,000, the proposed terms of reference and the proposed selection of a 
particular consultant shall be provided to the Association for its prior review and 
approval, and the contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given. 
 
B. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association. 
 
Page  20
-
19 
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
 
Technical Assistance Steering Committee (TASC)
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain the TASC consisting of senior officials of key 
stakeholder ministries and agencies and representatives of civil society. 
 
Economic Advisory Services Unit (EASU)
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain the EASU with an adequate number of professional 
staff with skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association, including without limitation: (i) a project coordinator; (ii) a deputy project 
coordinator; (iii) a financial officer; (iv) a procurement specialist; and (v) support staff as 
needed. 
 
Operational Guidelines
3. 
The Recipient shall implement the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Guidelines and shall not take any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such implementation. 
 
Subprojects under Part E of the Project
4. 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Subproject under Part E of the Project:  
(i) shall be selected by the TASC in accordance with eligibility criteria set forth in the 
Operational Guidelines; and (ii) shall be carried out only with
 the Association’s prior 
approval of the proposal for such Subproject setting forth detailed terms of reference and 
budget estimates. 
 
5. 
Prior to the commencement of each Subproject, the Recipient shall execute a 
Subproject Agreement with the Participating Entity for such Subproject, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, setting forth the respective obligations of the 
parties thereunder for the carrying out of such Subproject, and furnish a copy thereof to 
the Association. 
 
6. 
The Recipient shall ensure that each Subproject shall be implemented in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Guidelines and the Subproject 
Agreement for such Subproject and shall not take any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such implementation. 
 
7. 
The Recipient shall exercise its rights in respect of each Subproject and under the 
Subproject Agreement for such Subproject in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests 
of the Recipient and the Association; and (ii) achieve the purposes of the Project. 
Page  21
-
20 
-
8. 
The Recipient shall ensure that procurement of the goods and services required 
for Subprojects and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further 
elaborated in the Procurement Plan. 
 
Trimesterly Implementation Progress Reports
9. 
The Recipient shall, within forty-five (45) days after the end of each Fiscal Year 
trimester, provide to the Association a trimesterly implementation progress report setting 
forth: (i) a Financial Monitoring Report; (ii) the progress of Project implementation and 
achievement of the indicators referred to in paragraph 10 below; and (iii) proposed action 
plans for Project implementation for the following Fiscal Year trimester. 
 
Monitoring and Evaluation; Mid-Term Review
10. The 
Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association by August 31, 2007, a report or reports integrating the results 
of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to subparagraph (a) of this 
paragraph, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report(s) and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof 
during the period following such date; and
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by September 30, 2007, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report(s) referred to in subparagraph (b) of this 
paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion 
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report(s) and the Association’s views on the matter. 
 
Page  22
-
21 
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$1,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation.  On 
the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or 
amounts as the Recipient shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Association requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the 
Grant Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent 
amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
Page  23
-
22 
-
4. 
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit 
of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals 
from the Grant Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; and 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such 
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or  
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the 
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided 
such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
 
Page  24
-
23 
-
(b) 
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, including the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  25
-
24 
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Modifications to the General Conditions 
 
For the purpose of this Agreement, the provisions of the General Conditions are 
modified as follows: 
 
1. 
Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04(a), 3.04(b), 6.05 and Article VII are deleted in their 
entirety. 
 
2. 
Wherever used in the General Conditions, the following terms are modified to 
read as follows: 
 
(a) 
The term “Borrower” is modified to read “Recipient”. 
 
(b) 
The term “Credit” is modified to read “Grant”. 
 
(c) 
The term “Credit Account” is modified to read “Grant Account”. 
 
(d) 
The term “Development Credit Agreement” is modified to read 
“Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
3. 
Section 1.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 1.01. 
Application of General Conditions
 
These General Conditions set forth the terms and conditions generally 
applicable to the Development Grant Agreement to the extent and subject 
to any modifications set forth in such agreement.” 
 
4. 
Paragraph 3 of Section 2.01 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
“Recipient” means the party to the Development Grant Agreement to 
which the Grant is made.” 
 
5. 
Article III is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The heading of Article III is modified to read “Grant Account; Partial 
Payment”, and the heading of Section 3.04 is modified to read “Partial 
Payment”. 
 
(b) 
The words “The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit” in 
Section 3.05 are modified to read “All amounts required to be paid under 
the Development Grant Agreement”. 
 
Page  26
-
25 
-
6. 
Article IV is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
Section 4.02(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02. 
Currencies in which Payments are to be Made
 
(a) The Recipient shall pay all amounts required to be paid by it under 
the Development Grant Agreement in the currency specified in such 
agreement or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from 
time to time be designated or selected pursuant to paragraph (c) or (e) of 
this Section.” 
 
(b) 
Wherever used in Section 4.02(c) and (e) of the General Conditions, the 
words “principal and service charges” are modified to read “amounts”. 
 
(c) 
Section 4.03 is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03. 
Amount of the Grant
 
The amount of the Grant withdrawn from time to time shall be the 
equivalent in terms of SDR (determined as of the date or respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Grant Account) of the value of the currency or 
currencies so withdrawn.” 
 
(d) 
Section 4.06(b) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(b) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without restrictions of any 
kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
7. 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 5.08. 
Treatment of taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the Development Grant Agreement, the 
proceeds of the Grant may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in 
the territory of, the Recipient on the goods or services to be financed 
under the Grant, or on their importation, manufacture, procurement or 
supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to the Association’s policy of 
requiring economy and efficiency in the use of the proceeds of its credits 
and grants. To that end, if the Association shall at any time determine 
that the amount of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant is excessive or otherwise 
unreasonable, the Association may, by notice to the Recipient, adjust the 
percentage for withdrawal set forth or referred to in respect of such item 
Page  27
-
26 
-
in the Development Grant Agreement as required to be consistent with 
such policy of the Association.” 
 
8. 
Article VI is modified as follows: 
 
(a) 
The word “credit” in paragraphs (a)(ii) and (c)(i) of Section 6.02 is 
replaced with the words “credit, grant or financing”. 
 
(b) 
Section 6.03(c) is modified by replacing the words “corrupt or 
fraudulent” with “the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive or coercive”. 
 
9. 
Section 8.01(a) is modified to read as follows: 
 
“(a) All amounts which the Recipient shall be required to pay under the 
Development Grant Agreement shall be paid without deduction for, and 
free from, any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Recipient.” 
 
10. 
Section 12.05 and its heading are modified to read as follows: 
 
“Section 12.05. 
Termination of Development Grant Agreement
 
The obligations of the Recipient under the Development Grant 
Agreement shall terminate on the date ten (10)  years after the date of the 
Development Grant Agreement.” 
 
