                                            Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                 FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                               ReportNo: 31928-NF




                               PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                       PROPOSEDGRANT
                              INTHEAMOUNT OFSDR2MILLION
                                (US3.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                              TO THE

                                      KINGDOM OFNEPAL

                                              FORAN

                  ECONOMICREFORMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                                            May 25,2005




FinanceandPrivate Sector Development
SouthAsia RegionalOffice




This documenthas a restricteddistribution and may be usedby recipients only inthe performanceof their
official duties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                 CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective March 25th2005)


                Currency Unit = Nepalese Rupees ( N R s )
                    NRs70.50 = US$1
                       US1.5 = SDR1

                         FISCAL YEAR
                       July 15  - July 14

           ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB       Asian Development Bank
APL       Adaptable ProgramLoan
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CBS       CentralBureau of Statistics
CIAA      Commissionfor the Investigationof Abuse of Authority
CFAA      Country FinancialAccountability Assessment
CPAR      Country Procurement AssessmentReport
DFID      Department for InternationalDevelopment
EASU      Economic Advisory Services Unit
ERTA      Economic ReformTechnicalAssistance
HMGN      H i s Majesty's Government of Nepal
IDA       InternationalDevelopment Association
IF1       InternationalFinancialInstitutions
IMF       InternationalMonetaryFund
JICA      JapanInternationalCooperation Agency
LIL       Learning and InnovationLoan
MDG       MillenniumDevelopment Goal
MOGA      Ministry of General Administration
MOF       Ministry of Finance
MTEF      MediumTerm Expenditure Framework
NOC       Nepal Oil Corporation
NPC       National Planning Commission
NRB       Nepal RastraBank
NT        Nepal Telecom
PE        Public Enterprise
PMAS      Poverty Monitoring Analysis System
PRSP      Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
PRSC      Poverty ReductionSupport Credit
RBB       RastriyaBanijya Bank
RNAC      Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation
TASC      Technical AssistanceSteering Committee
VRS       Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme

                Vice President:     Praful Pate1
     Country Managermirector:       KenichiOhashi
                Sector Manager:     Simon C. Bell
           Task TeamLeader:         Ismail RadwadSabin Raj Shrestha

                                                                                         FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                                                 NEPAL
                                               NepalEconomicReformTA

                                                             CONTENTS
                                                                                                                                                     Page

   A .  STRATEGIC CONTEXTAND RATIONALE                                             .................................................................   1
     1   Country and sector issues            ....................................................................................................     1
     2.. Rationale for Bankinvolvement                    .........................................................................................    2
     3.  Higher level objectives to which the project contributes                                 .................................................... 3

   B .  PROJECT DESCRIPTION                      .................................................................................................     4
     1 Lendinginstrument
      .                              .............................................................................................................     4
     2.  Project development objective andkey indicators                               ..............................................................  4
     3.  Project components          .............................................................................................................     5
     4.  Lessons learned andreflected inthe project design                               ............................................................  9
     5.  Alternatives consideredandreasons for rejection                               ............................................................    11

    C.  IMPLEMENTATION                  ........................................................................................................       12
      1. Partnership arrangements (if applicable)                       ..........................................................................     12
     2.  Institutionaland implementation arrangements                              ................................................................    12
     3.  Monitoringand evaluation of outcomes/results                              ................................................................    14
     4.  Sustamablhty
               . . .       ....................................................................................................................        15
     5.  Criticalrisks andpossiblecontroversial aspects                             ...............................................................    15
     6 .  Grant conditions andcovenants                  ........................................................................................      16

    D.  APPRAISAL SUMMARY                      .................................................................................................       17
      1.  Economic and financial analyses                  ......................................................................................      17
      2. Technical   ...........................................................................................................................       17
      3.  Fiduciary  ...........................................................................................................................       17
      4.  Social.................................................................................................................................      19
      5.  Environment     ......................................................................................................................       19
      6.  Safeguardpolicies        .............................................................................................................       20
      7.  PolicyExceptions andReadiness                    ......................................................................................      20

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
                                                                .
without World Bank authorization                        .

Annex 1:Country and Sector or ProgramBackground                               .........................................................      21

Annex 2: Major Related ProjectsFinanced by the Bank and/or other Agencies                                                    .................23
Annex 3: Results Framework and Monitoring                     ........................................................................       24

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description          ......................................................................................        28

Annex 5: Project Costs...............................................................................................................        37

Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements                  .................................................................................       38

Annex 7: Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                                           .....................................  41

Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements               ......................................................................................       49

Annex 9: Economic and Financial Analysis                 .............................................................................       53

Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues        ............................................................................................        54

Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision                     .....................................................................      55

Annex 12: Documentsinthe Project File                .................................................................................        56

Annex 13: Statement of Loans and Credits                 ..............................................................................       57

Annex 14: Country at a Glance       .................................................................................................         58

Annex 15: Map N o IBRD 33455
                  .                   ...............................................................................................         60

                                         NEPAL

            ECONOMIC REFORMTECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT

                         PROJECTAPPRAISAL DOCUMENT

                                    South Asia Region

                     Finance andPrivate Sector Department (SASFP)

Date: June 6th2005                         Team Leader: IsmailRadwan/Sabin Shrestha
Country Director: Kenichi Ohashi           Sectors: GeneralPublic Administration
Sector Managermirector: Simon C.           Themes: Other economic management,
Bell                                       infrastructure for private sector development,
Project ID: PO93294                         state enterpriserestructuring andprivatization.
Lending instrument:Technical
Assistance Grant                          I Environmentalscreening      category: C
                                            Safeguard screening category: S3
                                 Project FinancingData:
[ ] Loan   [ ] Credit    [XIGrant   [ ] Guarantee      [ ] Other:
For LoandCredits/Others:
Total Bank financing (US$m.): 3.0
Proposed terms: IDA Grant

                 Source                           Local       I   Foreign    I    Total
Borrower
IBRD/IDA                                    1.oo               2.00           3.00
Others
Total                                     I 1.00              I 2.00         13.00
Borrower: Kingdomof Nepal
Responsible agency: Ministry of Finance, His Majesty's Govemment of Nepal, Singha
Durbar, Kathmandu, Nepal. Facsimile: (977-1) 4259-891
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/IJS$m)
FY               2006
Annual          0.50           1.oo




Does the project depart from the CAS incontent or other significant          o Yes     No
respects?
Does the project require any exceptions from Bank policies?                  oYes .No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                                 N/A
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?                 oYes * N o
Does the project include any critical risks rated"substantial" or "high"? o Yes        No

Does the project meet the Regional criteria for readinessfor           .Yes     oNo
implementation?




Which safeguardpolicies are triggered, if any?

None
Significant,non-standardconditions,ifany,for:

Boardpresentation:

Loadcredit effectiveness:

The conditions of effectiveness include:

       (a)     A ProcurementPlansatisfactory to the Association has beenprepared;       I
       (b)     TheTASC has beenestablished;

       (c)     The EASUhas been established with an adequate number of professional
staff with skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.

       (d)     The Operational Guidelines satisfactory to the Association have been
                prepared; and

       (e)     The format of Financial Monitoring Report satisfactory to the Association
                has beenprepared.


 Covenantsapplicableto projectimplementation:

 None

A. STRATEGICCONTEXTAND RATIONALE

1. Country andsector issues

1. Nepal's recent history i s marred by political instability and violence. With per capita GDP of
   around $250, Nepal remains one of the poorest countries in the world. Difficult geography and low
   endowments of physical and human capital that Nepal had to tackle with when it started concerted
   efforts towards development in the 1950s, remain significantly relevant challenges today. Liberal
   economic policies were met with significant gains, but the gains -in the form of increased private
   investments and accelerated economic growth- did not accrue equitably across all segments of a
   diverse population. Persistent poverty coupled with widespread political neglect particularly inthe
                                                                                      -
   midand far western regions of the country    - sparked a violent Maoist uprisingwhich has developed
   into a nationwideinsurgency that has to date claimed more than 11,000 lives.

2. Improved service delivery, promoting social inclusion and reducing corruption are the keys to
   peace and prosperity.       In late January 2003, a cease-fire was agreed upon by His Majesty's
   Government of Nepal (HMGN) and the insurgents. Though the cease-fire endedinAugust 2003 and
   the conflict has continued, key policymakers inNepal were acutely aware of the needto make public
   services and economic growth more inclusive in order to arrive at lasting peace. This awareness is
   reflected in Nepal's Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and has formed the foundation for a strong
   internalpressure to reform. Nepal's PRS has four broadpillars, namely:

             (i)    generating equitable and broadbasedgrowth;
             (ii) improvingservicedelivery;
             (iii)promotingsocialinclusion;and
             (iv)   improving governance.

3. Important technocratic reforms have taken place despite considerable political uncertainty.
   Duringaperiodofcontinued political uncertainty, abroadcoalitionofreformers emergedcomprising
   technocrats, intellectuals, business leaders, and civil society representatives who pushed forward the
   change agenda. The poverty reduction strategy, a product of wide national participation, gave these
   reform leaders a platform from which to operate. The reforms o f the past three years focused on
   improving the delivery o f basic services complemented by far-reaching structural and governance
   reforms. Key reforms included: (i)   revampingthe expenditure management systemto focus resources
   on priority development activities; (ii) handing over management of public schools and sub-health
   posts to local management committees; (iii)      strengthening the legal power of the anti-corruption
   authority (which usedthis authority to file charges inhighprofile corruption cases); (iv) bringingthe
   two largest loss-making commercial banks under external management teams; (v) increasing private
   sector participation in power and telecom with provisions for rural services; (vi) setting up an
   independent Roads Board to improve road maintenance; (vii) passing legislation that improved
   women's legal rights to parentalproperty and (viii) significantly reducing the number of civil service
   transfers. Inorder to support reform initiatives, the World Bank approved the first PovertyReduction
   Support Credit (PRSC I)    inNovember 2003.

4. A unique political challenge remains to continued economic reform. The political situation in
   Nepal has changed drastically since October 2002, when the government was dismissed by H i s
   Majesty the King. Three different prime ministers presidedover the implementation of the reforms
   under PRSC I,and most recently, on February 1, 2005, His Majesty the King took over executive
   powers, imposed a state o f emergency (subsequently liftedon April 29,2005) and maderestoration of
   peace his highest priority.



                                                     1

5. An ongoing commitment to reform exists across the new government. The new council of
  ministers formed under the chairmanship of the King has made a clear commitment to continuing,
  and even accelerating reforms. Most of the reform-minded, high-level officials have been retained
   and additional reformers promoted to key positions. The King is taking a personal interest in the
  performance o f key reforms particularly in the areas of improving service delivery and rooting out
   corruption.

6. The reform agenda will continue to focus on good governance and economic growth. The first
   Cabinet meeting produced a 21- point programwhich is broadly consistent with the spirit of PRS and
   articulates in detail the areas o f immediate priority. The program includes measures to combat
   corruption, including the creation of a Royal Commissionfor Corruption Control (RCCC), measures
   to improve service delivery including an enhanced monitoring and inspectionregime and a program
   of measures for the rural poor including the creation of a land bank to distribute land to squatters and
   landless peasants, and support for irrigation schemes and cottage industries.        The Cabinet also
   endorsed reforms in public sector management, decentralization and outlined a program of
   affirmative action for the civil service. The program also includes measures to neutralize the rebel
   movement including a special development program for the Kamali region, employment creation
   measures and an amnesty for ex-combatantsthat are willing to eschew violence.

7. Rapid implementationof a sound program of economic reform is a vital ingredientfor ending
   the current conflict and providingcombatantswith an economic stake in the country's future.
   Although budgetary support, provided by successive tranches of the PRSC, i s able to expand the
   fiscal resources to back the reform process, it has not been able to expand the administration's
   capacity to implement reforms.        Severely constrained by limited capacity, the government is
   experiencing difficulty inaccelerating the reformprocess. Within this context, HMGNhas expressed
   interest ina possible Economic ReformTechnical Assistance Project (ERTA) that would facilitate the
   implementationo f the economic reformprogramby providing additional resources to augment public
   sector capacity.



2. Rationale for Bank involvement

8. The proposed ERTA will provide continuity to the Bank's ongoing program of support to
   Nepal. The Bank has been supporting Nepal's economic reform program for a number of years.
   Most recently through the first o f a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs). The first
   PRSC was approved by the board in November 2003. A second PRSC was under consideration for
   fiscal year 2005. As key reform actions were not completed within the agreed timeframe, possible
   processing o f the PRSC I1was suspended, although discussions are ongoing and a PRSC I1remains a
   possibility for fiscal year 2006. As such the Bank remains deeply involved in development policy
   dialogue and providing ongoing assistance in sector dialogues. The proposed ERTAproject will help
   ensure that this ongoing sector dialogue i s translated into tangible reforms. In all reform areas, the
   proposed project will support existing initiatives. Rather than driving the process from the center it
   will create a hub that can provide additional human and financial resources to facilitate ongoing
   sectoral reforms.

9. The public sector lacks the technical capacity to implement a broad economic reform agenda.
   Development policy lending i s often accompanied by ambitious reform targets and while there is
   commitment inprinciple to achievingreform targets, inpractice capacity to implement the program is
   lacking. The proposed ERTA project could provide funds that would be used to support capacity to



                                                    2

   implement the program. This can help overcome otherwise debilitating constraints within the public
    sector e.g. limited human resources, limited specialist skills, lack of equipment, limitedexposure to
   international best practice etc.

10. Structural and policy based reforms are a key area of Bank comparative advantage. Capacity
   building, governance and service delivery along with the achievement of peace form the core of the
   Bank's support for Nepal as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). By supporting
   Nepal's key reform priorities, the Bank would achieve a number of CAS and national development
   objectives. Such support would come at a critical juncture inNepal's history when there is a need to
    accelerate and deepen reforms despite a more difficult political and security environment.

11. The Bank can help HMGN to further its donor harmonization efforts. More important than
   providing additional resources, the Bank can use this project as a vehicle to establish an appropriate
   mechanism through which HMGN can ask other donors to also channel their assistance. The CAS
   revealed that substantial resources are spent annually on capacity buildingactivities which often have
    disappointing outcomes. Establishing a broad pool of untied Technical Assistance (TA) funds and
    encouraging other donors to contribute would effectively achieve donor coordination; relieve the
    reporting burden on government and also ensure government leadership and ownership in the use of
    TA resources. This could bring about an end to supply driven support and help to bring donors
    within a budget prioritization framework.

12. The key elements of the reforms, once implementedwould provide strong and sound foundation for
    mediumterm growth and stability. Furthermore, the reform programis sufficiently well definedand
    formulatedwith strong commitment and ownership.



3. Higher level objectives to which the project contributes

13. The proposed grant will support all four pillars of the Nepal's PRS including growth, improved
    service delivery, social inclusion and governance. In these areas the TA i s envisaged to provide
    financial resources to support; passing of the Governance and Civil Service Reform Acts, improved
    monitoring and evaluation of statistics (especially the Millennium Development Goal related
    statistics), and measures to promote greater private sector participationinthe economy. Ifthe reform
    program i s implemented successfully, it could also contribute to increased confidence inthe current
    government's ability and authority to negotiate a peaceful settlement to the ongoing conflict.

14. The objective of this project is to build public sector capacity to implement the stated economic
    reform program. The TA resources would be used in `an outcome driven manner and focused on
    implementation. The project would also seek to recruit and retain skilled nationals (including ex-
    patriot Nepalese) wherever possible. This would ensure that although the project i s focused on
    implementing priority reforms it will also support the need to buildnational capacity on a sustainable
    basis.




                                                     3

B. PROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. Lendinginstrument

15. The lending instrument proposed is a Technical Assistance Loan, financed by an IDA grant. Under
    the ForeignAid policy, Nepal is not permittedto borrow for TA needs and as such a grant financing
    I s appropriate.

2. Projectdevelopmentobjective andkeyindicators

16. The long term objective of the programis to support the implementationof key short term measures
    of the reform agenda as embodiedinthe Royal Proclamation, the 21-point program, and the PRS. As
    explained above, there is broad consistency between the new government's economic management
    program and the reform programs of the previous governments (including the PRS and the reforms
    supported by the Bank's first PRSC).

17. The proposedERTA project will strengthenpublic sector capacity to implementthe economic reform
    agenda. This will be achievedby funding priority technical assistance that will provide the executive
    capacity requiredto implement the reform agenda. The implementation of economic reforms will
    improve service delivery, public sector management, increase inclusion and reduce public sector
    interventioninthe economy, putting the countryon a higher growth path.

18. The projectwill be outcome driven; with a focus on implementation, it will avoid funding studies and
    undertakingpolicy analysis, wherever possible. Inmany areas of the economy such as civil service
    reform, privatization and labor regulation, large amounts of technical assistance have been disbursed
    by several donors with disappointing results. The detailed outcome indicators for this project are
    includedinAnnex 3.

19. The immediate recipients of the project funds will be reform-mindedpublic sector agencies that will
    be able to design and implement better selected reform measures that will improve economic
    management. The central focus of these reforms is to improve governance and pro-poor service
    delivery.

20. Indirectly, the people ofNepal will be the major beneficiaries of the reformprocess. The reformswill
    promote transparency, reduce corruption, improve public sector management, reduce the losses of
    public enterprises (PES) and improve labor market flexibility. Taken together these measures will
     ensure that public sector finances that are currently wasted on inefficient subsidies can be channeled
    to moreappropriateareas, e.g. increasedspendingon socialpriorities.

21. Ending wasteful subsidies to state-run utility companies implies introducing and maintaining tariff
     increases that cover the costs of production. Studies in Nepal and other countries suggest that such
    price increases will not hurt the poor whose typical consumption basket i s not highly dependent on
     electricity or petroleumproducts. Likewise tariff increases inurbanwater supply and sewerage will
     not affect the very poor as they currently have limited access to such services. Inthe mediumterm,
     ending subsidies to infrastructure services will ensure that government has the ability to expand the
     reachof these services while at the same time devotingmore resources to the poor.

22. Such reforms are all likely to come at the cost of public servants and the urbanpopulationsthat have
     enjoyed access to subsidized goods and services. Many such workers are heavily unionized and
     wield considerable political power and therefore integrating them into the reform process and



                                                      4

   engendering their buy-into the reform process will present an enormous challenge for the present
   government. However, inthe longterm, even these groups of reformopponents standto gain fromthe
   reform process as scarce economic resources are allowed to follow market price signals leading to
   greater efficiency and productivity.

3. Project components

ProvidingFlexibleTA Resources

23. The Nepal Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (NERTA) should be structured to provide
    flexibility insourcing andbuilding capacity. This can be done inseveral forms;

    (i)      Hiringskilled professionals, often from the private sector, on a contract basis for extended
             periods o f time to help support general ministerial capacity, e.g. a long term advisor to a
             reform committee.'
    (ii)     Hiring consultants, either local or internationalto address key issues and transactions on a
             project basis, e.g. transactions advisersto divest a state-owned enterprise.
    (iii)    Training and exposure visits to learn relevant experience from other countries, e.g. the recent
             visit o f a senior Nepalese delegation to Sri Lanka to learn from the latter's recent
             privatizationexperience.

24. At the outset of a reform program, some of the reform initiatives will be well-defined, while others
    are not as well defined. Ina country like Nepal, it i s not unreasonableto expect that the development
    of unforeseen circumstances duringthe project implementationperiod may mean that government i s
    unwillingor unable to implementreforms that at the outset appearedpromising. On the other hand a
    window of opportunity may open for other reforms.              Successful reform initiatives often seize
    opportunisties and therefore the proposed ERTA project has built in a large degree of flexibility to
    reflect this.

25. At the outset only a few areas have been defined where reform initiatives are relatively well
    developed complete with a short concept note, terms of reference for consultants and budget
    estimates. These proposals are programmed into the project and will have funds pre-allocated to
    them at the project launch (see below). The remainder of the project resources will then be placed
    into a pool of unallocated resources,the "challenge fund".


IdentifiedPriorityAreas for Support

26. Duringthe preparation and appraisal meetings, Bank support was requestedinthe following areas; (i)
    improving governance and public sector management; (ii)         accelerating privatization; (iii)
                                                                                                   improving
     service delivery; and (iv) implementing a strategic communications program. A brief overview o f
     support in each of these areas i s presented below. It i s proposed that these areas form the areas of
    pre-identifiedtechnical assistance while the remainder o f the resources is placed in a challenge fund
     (see below).

I        Improving Governance andPublic Sector Management

27. Improving governance i s an urgent priority and it receives prominent billing in both the Royal
     Proclamationand the 21-point program. A number o f changes at the policy and legislative levels as
     well as at the structural and operational levels are needed. Several donors have been working inthis



                                                       5

area includingAsian Development Bank (ADB), the UK Department for International Development
(DFID) and Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA). Much of the analysis and
groundwork has therefore been completed. The Ministry of General Administration (MOGA) is led
by a strongly reform-minded leadership. Within this context it is suggested that the project focuses
on the following areas;

        Improved Governance: In the short term, there i s a desire to strengthen the policy and
        legislative framework by passing the Governance Act which establishes and demarcates the
        roles and responsibilities of the political and bureaucratic arms of the executive branch of
        government.      The Civil Service Act amendments also under consideration will set the
        legislative framework for aprofessional civil service and establish the principle of affirmative
        action within the civil service that will in turn support increased social inclusion. In the
        medium term an Umbrella Public Administratioflanagement Act is being prepared to
        create an integrated civil service and to provide general norms o f the public administration
        that is focused on service delivery.

        Civil Service Reform: Although Nepal's civil service i s not overstaffed by some measures, it
        suffers from poor incentives, fragmented decision-making, large numbers at the lower levels,
        and inflexible working practices. In addition to the policy and legislative improvements
        outlined above, improvements at the structural and operational levels are also needed.
        Immediatepriorities for government action include addressingissues around human resource
        managementand development within the civil service including wage decompression, health
        insurance, a contributory pension scheme and an effective promotion and transfer policy
        Expanding the inclusiveness of the civil service through effectively targeting minorities
        through aprogramof affirmative action remains an important priority. Inthe mediumterm, a
        potential Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme (VRS) will be considered to allow redeployment
         of central staff to the regions as part of the decentralization program.

        Public Expenditure Management: Addressing growing concern over the limited impact of
        public expenditures on improved service delivery, governance and accountability, HMGN
         introduced an improved public expenditure management process - the Medium Term
         Expenditure Framework (MTEF). By prioritizing public expenditures, aligning policies and
         spending priorities, focusing on an Immediate Action Plan (IAP), reducing budget transfers
         and increasing capacity, government has improved fiscal discipline and improved the
         budget's pro-poor impact. Notwithstandingthis impressive progress, the MTEF process still
         needs to be broadened and deepened across the public sector and additional measures are
         needed including; donor harmonization, increasing institutional capacity, and improving the
         alignment of plans to budgets. This will require a concerted effort on technical and change
         managementprocedures that could be supported through the TA.

         Systems improvements: A comprehensive Human Resourcedatabase within MOGA has been
         implemented. Rolling out this database and Management Information System (MIS) across
         central government and then to the districts will be a priority for TA support.             The
         establishment of a modernized records and file management system and performance and
         grievance managementsystems inline departments couldbe supported by the TA.

         Combating corruption: Procurement practices have been improved several important anti-
         corruption measures have been taken.           Work i s on going to harmonizing procurement
         legislation with international practices.        A new procurement law is expected to be
         promulgated by the end of this fiscal year. Continued support to implement the law and



                                                     6

           enhance procurement capacity within the country will be required. Donors have supported
           the strengthening of the Commission for the Investigationo f Abuse of Authority (CIAA) and
           more recently, the King has establisheda Royal Commission for Corruption Control (RCCC).
           There is scope to further support and strengthen the institutional framework for tackling
           enforcement and a particular need to focus on prevention through analysis and reform of
           corruption prone processesindifferent sectors.

           Statistical Upgrading: Improved statistics will help to strengthen the evidence base for
           improved policy making as well as monitoring and implementation of development
           programs. The TA could provide important support for National Accounts, Trade Statistics,
           and other statistical series. Initial discussions with the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS)
           indicated that internal capacity i s weak and given limited resources the survey cycles and a
           large part of the program of CBS is driven by donor priorities. CBS staff is inthe process of
           preparing a detailed action program for TA support, based on the recently completed
           consolidated national statistical plan.

           Tax and Customs Administration Reform:           This i s a key cornerstone of improved fiscal
           managementwhich i s inneedof additional resources. The Department of Customs embarked
           upon a Three Year Custom Reform and Modernization Action Plan inFY 2003/04 to keep up
           with international norms and best practices. Potential areas of technical assistance include:
           training, developing human resources to meet WTO requirements, and computerization and
           automation o f strategic customs offices.

           Improved Financial Accountability: In close collaboration with the World Bank and other
            development partners, government has carried out the Country Financial Accountability
            Assessment (CFAA) in 2002 and identified a number o f actions to improve the country's
            financial accountability structure.    While some of these actions have been or are being
            implemented, continued support will be required to make improvements in the financial
            accountability framework. The steering committee i s reviewing the action plan and will
            identifythe priority areas, where further support may berequired.


11     Accelerating Privatization

28. Heavy public sector intervention in the economy continues with Pubic Enterprises (PES)representing
    a significant drain on the public purse. But restructuring and privatization of PES in Nepal has
    progressed slowly. The heaviest loss-makers are the state banks, Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation
    (RNAC), the utilities and large industrial sector enterprises.         Other donors have focused on
    streamlining the privatization process with little success. Privatizations can still take decades to
    achieve and are sometimes reversed inthe face of political pressures.

            Privatization of key Public Enterprises: Rather than get involved in these smaller
             transactions, it i s proposed that the T A focus its resources on potential support to the three
             most important entities RNAC, Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC) and Nepal Telecom (NT).
             Government has indicatedits interest indivestiture ineach of these areas and progress inone
             or all of these areas would produce significant benefits for the country (see Annex 4).

             Creating a separate body for privatization: The privatization process i s currently handled
             from a small privatization cell within the Ministry of Finance (MOF). Unfortunately this
             institutional setup results in weak capacity as the cell is unable to attract competent



                                                       7

             transactions advisers on government salaries. Furthermore, the process of approvals is
             tremendously convoluted requiring a resort to Cabinet on no fewer than three separate
             occasions. It i s suggested that the TA support changes to the legislative and institutional
             framework including the creation of a separate body for privatization.

111     Improving sewice delivery

29. Nepal has significantly improved child survival rates, reduced fertility rates and achieved gains in
    communicable disease control during the 1990s. However, critical challenges remain, including a
    high maternal mortality rate of 539 per 100,000 live births and widespread malnutrition. Weak
    institutional capacity, inadequatepublic financing and inefficient spending, limited coverageand poor
    service quality, poor value from private health spending and a difficult topography, all impact health
    service outcomes. HMGN has developed a health sector strategy to address these issues.             The
    strategy includes decentralizing service delivery, introducing an Essential Health Care Package that
    focuses on reproductive health, child health, communicable disease control and improved outpatient
    services and public-private partnerships.

30.'Similarly in the education sector, Nepal i s moving away from public sector delivery of school
    education to delivery by school management committees headedby local communities inpartnership
    with support organizations and with technical and financial support from the public sector. This is a
    profound shift and to make this transition successful there is a need to develop new skills within the
    public sector, and buildcapacity of school managementcommittees and support organizations. Some
    suggestedareas of TA support to improve service delivery include:

              Private Health Sector Assessment: to recommend appropriate public private partnership
              (PPP) models for the health sector. The assessment would examine: a) health labor market;
              b) survey of private sector providers; (c) views and perceptions of policy makers and
              stakeholders inboth public and private sectors; (d) survey of pharmaceutical companies and
              their impact on the health of poor and vulnerable populations; and (e) review of past and
              existing PPP models e.g. contracting idout specific health services, health facilities, social
              marketingand franchising models.

              Health Sector Legal Review: review and recommendation of regulatory provisions including:
              (a) review gaps in legal basis of health policies, reform programs and actions; (b) existing
              legal provisionsthat facilitate/constrain service delivery including training and deployment o f
              service providers (human resource); (c) review gaps in environmental and occupational
              hazard aspects in the existing health system including decentralization; and (d) regulation of
              private health care providers in terms of quality, standards, pricing and other practices that
              affect the poor.

          e   Capacity Buildingfor Community Management: The proposed TA could support capacity
              buildingof public sector officials, school managementcommittees, includingtheir Network -
              Community School National Network - and support organizations for the new mode of
              service delivery.




                                                        8

            Establishment of a new HIV/AIDS Trust:          Development of the legal and institutional
            framework for this new autonomous entity including: (a) comprehensive assessment of the
            institutional capacity o f all the organizations currently involved in HIVIAIDS activities
            (including public and private, non-profits and international partners) ;(b) developing suitable
            institutional options and associated costing implications; and (c) staffing issues (public
            service rules, HRissues, pay-scales, etc.).


IV      Implementing astrategic communications program

31. In order to maintain support for the PRS, the Royal Proclamation and the 21-point program, a
    strategic communications campaign will be undertaken to raise awareness of the benefits of economic
    reform including liberalizing factor markets and introducing increasedprivate sector participation in
    all aspects of the economy. A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize
    reforms, and to the extent possible, buildconsensus around reform actions as a pro-active choice that
    will promote economic development, improve service delivery and increase opportunities for
    individuals.

32. The recently createdPublic Information Center (PIC) and the PRSPResource Center has been chosen
    as the focal body to implement the strategic communications program. The country-wide effort to
    involve and inform stakeholdersof the reform process will beginwith a detailed segmentation of the
    key stakeholders and will result in customized strategies to reach as much o f the population as
    possible especially those inthe rural areas. The mass communications strategy will consist of three
    interlinked parts; (i) outsourced public relations campaign to "sell the reform process", (ii) two-way
    dialogue between public sector representatives and reform stakeholders to inform and refine the
    reform process and (iii)    tripartite discussions between government, employers and unions on the
    reformprocess.

33. A communications audit will assess the communications needs inrelation to the political, social and
    cultural environment for the reforminitiative. Itwill also help to identify key clusters of stakeholders
    and gain insight into various concerns and roadblocks either real or potential. The audit will help to
    determine which strategies are needed to build consensus, and the messages and ways to
    communicate effectively to these audiences.


 4. Lessonslearned and reflectedinthe project design

 34. The Bank's recent experience in channeling technical assistance to Nepal especially through the
    Financial Sector Restructuring Project and under the Public Private Infrastructure Advisory Facility
     (PPIAF) provides several lessons for the proposed project (see below). Elsewherein the region, the
     recent Bank TA operations in India, Sri Lanka (ERTA and Central Bank Restructuring Project) and
     Pakistan(Public Sector Capacity BuildingProject) provide several lessonsfor the proposed operation.
     This section has also drawn valuable lessons from other donor TA support to Nepal including DFID
     support to the privatizationprocess and ADB support to public administration reforms.

 35. Reform Timing and Management Capacity: One important lesson i s that in rushing to fulfill
     International Financial Institutions (IFI) conditions, the authorities can be prone to over-commit
     themselves. Government often agrees to move on too many areas without realizing the technical and
     managerial capacity as well as the political capital that is required to deliver on these requests. One
     mitigating factor i s the creation of a reform unit within the ministry or a steering committee that i s
     empowered to take hard decisions to move the reform process forward. Several reform committees


                                                       9

   are already inplace for various reform initiatives inNepal. The proposed ERTAproject will follow
   this model with the creation of a dedicated steering committee. Moreover, the TA will be flexible
   enoughwith a large amount of unallocated fundingso that it can be directed to sectorsthat are able to
   progresswith urgentlyneededreforms. The project will support the effort to address reforms ina few
   areas and make progress where possible.

36. Management Turnover: The last 18 months have witnessed three successive governments. Each
   new government i s accompanied by change at the political and, to a lesser extent, the technocratic
    levels. Each new incumbent has to take time to familiarize himselfwith the key issues inthe sector
    and chart a suitable course of action. However, the new government has moved quickly and
    appointed reform-minded candidates in several key positions and have demonstrated its political
    commitment to both implement the reform agenda and support reform-oriented civil servants and
    politicians.

37. GovernmentCommitment: The government has outlined an ambitious reform agenda for improved
    governance and pro-poor service delivery.          Past experience reveals that sustained political
    commitment to tackle the key reform issues, especially tariff increases and labor legislation, i s
    difficult to achieve and has hinderedeconomic growth and service delivery inNepal. Reforms inthe
    petroleum, telecom and power sectors, as well as the privatization agenda have all moved slowly
    despite substantial resources being spent to support the process over the past few years. The new
    government i s keento implement its reform programwithin its current window of opportunity. There
    are clear indications of political commitment from the highest levels of government, including the
    Kinghimself.

38. UsingPrivate Sector Participationas a Panacea: Inmany instances reform agendas have failed as
    the underlyingissues leadingto the need for reformwere not well-thought out. I t is oftenthought that
    introducing some form o f private sector participationwould be the answer to a myriad of problems in
    a particular sector. However, the private sector responds to incentives just as the public sector does
    and unless these incentives are well aligned with government's reform objectives, the resulting
    program can end in failure. For instance, there are a number o f public service fkctions that RNAC
    could take on in a post-privatization scenario (loss-making transport services to the rural areas).
    These issues need to be carefully thought through prior to privatization.

39. IneffectiveProject Monitoring: The state roads TA in India for example, did not have adequate
     resources devoted to overall project monitoring. For a project of this nature, it i s essential to ensure
     that the requiredinformation for financial management is collected and that a check i s kept on the
     extent to which funds are committed and disbursed. To overcome this potential problem this project
     will start with the steering committee appointing a full time financial manager (see below).

40. Clear Eligibility Criteria: The ERTA in Sri Lanka shows that clear identification of up-front
     eligibility criteria for access to TA funds, and in particular clear outputs from the TA, provides
     incentives for efficient usage of the resources. This proposed operation highlightsthe need for strong
     borrower commitment and action plans to follow through on reforms identified as priorities. In
     collaboration with government counterparts, the preparation team has drafted clear eligibility criteria
     and operational principles for the project.

41. Procurement Challenges: Delays often result from a lack o f understanding o f the different
     evaluation methods and the need to follow bureaucratic administrative procedures. Support could be
     provided by the World Bank on procurement issues which for the smaller sub-projects will be
     handled by the project management unit within the National Planning Commission.                It is very
     important that the project hires a fill-time procurement specialist to handle the procurement aspects


                                                      10

   centrally. The other problem that Bank projects have experienced in Nepal i s the unwillingness to
   procure "expensive" international consultants. The project will ensure that expatriate Nepalese or
   nationalconsultants are drawn on whenever possible. Strong regionalconsultants can also bring good
   technical expertise at a reasonable cost. InternationalTA will be usedwhen necessaryand only when
   such expertise is not available locally or regionally.


5. Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection

Project rationale

42. The new government is committed to undertaking sweeping economic reforms; however, it lacks the
   required technical capacity. Therefore, the project team proposes to provide an untied pool of
   resources to be usedto support reformactivities over a broadrange of areas.

43. Simply funding international consultants on a short-term basis will not prove the most effective
    method of plugging this gap as even the capacity to manage the consultants does not exist in many
    ministries and agencies. Although the proposed membersof the steering committee are committed to
    setting the policy direction and taking the key decisions at the technocratic level they will not have
    time to manage the process. Therefore the project will start by creating the requiredmanagement
    capacity as a secretariat within the National Planning Commission, initially hiring such expertise
    from the private sector on a short term contract basis. This small, task-oriented and temporary reform
    cadre will then implement the detailed reform process over project lifetime. The rationale for this
    approach is basedonthe following observations:

        0    The public sector i s unable to attract these individuals on civil service salaries. Even ifthe
             public sector was able to hire them, it is clear that such specialist skills are not needed on a
             long-term basis. Therefore the ability to hire such individuals on sunset clauses through one
             year renewable contracts is considered the most sensible way forward.

         0   It is far cheaper and more effective to recruit nationals from the private sector rather than
             employing expensive expatriate consultants when the expertise exist in-country.

         0   This capacity once strengthened would also be sustainable and even once the reform units
             were disbanded the capacity and experience o f the individuals involved would remain in-
             country.

             This approach also has the benefit that it will lead to home-grown solutions to reform
             challenges and that government would have complete ownership of the reformprocess.

         0   Finally, the Bank would proceed according to Nepal's own reform schedule. If government
             were able to quickly staff the units and prepare an actionable business plan for the reform
             process, the Bank would be able to follow with timely disbursements.

Alternatives Considered

44. The possibility of using single-sector credits was considered and rejected for the following two
    reasons. Firstly, given the broad nature of reform challenges facing the public sector a single sector
    credit would be too narrow and constrictive and would not have the required critical mass to be
     funded by an individual credit. Secondly, the pace of reform in a particular sector may quicken or

    slow depending on a myriad of reasons, many of which may not be foreseen during project
   preparation(or even implementation) and therefore including a wide range of reforms appearedto be
   the most appropriatechoice.

45. Another alternative considered for this project included using institutional development funds
    and/or trust funds. Howeverthese would be too smallto address some ofthe larger needs outlinedby
    HMGN and managing numerous small trust funds would add extra administrative burden to Bank
    operations.

46. Alternative instrumentswere also consideredincluding a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL)which
    would have matched the desire for a fast-track process but would be difficult to justify given the
    nature of the proposedoperation(little innovativecontent). An Adaptable ProgramLoan (APL) was
    rejected because the pace and extent of government reforms is not yet sufficient to reasonably
    establish the need for a longer term multi-project program. A structuraladjustment credit (SAC)
    was not consideredas the TA is closely tiedto PRSCI1discussions.



C. IMPLEMENTATION

1. Partnershiparrangements(ifapplicable)

47. At the outset of the project no additional donor funding is foreseen. However, the CAS revealedthat
    Nepal receives substantialamounts of technical assistance that are often donor driven. The financial
    management arrangements will be structured to allow other donors to support the project later on. It
    i s hopedthat a succe@d implementationof the first year of the programwill encourage other donors
    to support this approach leading to greater public sector ownership of the reform program and
    improveddonor harmonization.

48. Initial discussions with donors indicate that DFID and ADB might be interestedto co-finance the TA
    structuredinthis way. Other donors could be approached for additionalfunding ifnecessary.

49. Even if direct donor co-financing is not forthcoming, the project can capitalize on the financing of
    other donors by allowing government the resources and freedom to implement the findings of
    upstreamanalysis funded by other donors. Knowing that this source of funding is available will also
    encourageother donorsto support line ministries indevelopingrequests for TA assistance.


2. Institutionalandimplementationarrangements

InstitutionalArrangements

50. The project implementationinstitutional arrangements addresses the need for building a foundation to
    sustain this initiative within the government's system so that initiatives undertakenunder the project
    can be sustained as part of the government system. This will basically encompass three vital
    mechanism; (i)    A project steering committee; (ii) project coordination unit, i.e. the Economic
                                                          A
    Advisory Services Unit; and (iii)  mechanismto access the challenge fund. All are highlighted below
    and describedinmore detail inAnnex 6.

51. Theproject steering committee: The National Planning Commission (NPC) Secretariat will be the
    primary implementationagency. The NPC Secretariatwill create a specializedunit called "Economic



                                                     12

   Advisory Services Unit" (EASU) under the Poverty Monitoring Division to coordinate the project
   activities. The Joint Secretary o f the Poverty Monitoring Division will coordinate the overall project
   activities.    In order to steer and manage the process, the Government will create a Technical
   Assistance Steering Committee (TASC) under the chairmanship of a senior NPC official and includes
   the Chief Secretary, Finance Secretary, Secretary of MOGA, the Financial Comptroller General, and
   the Joint Secretary of the Poverty Monitoring Divisionas the membersof the Committee. The Joint
   Secretary who serves as the Project Coordinator, will also serve as the member-secretary to the
   TASC.      This arrangement will facilitate bridging arrangements between the TASC and the
   implementing unit, EASU. The steering committee may also nominate an additional member from
   the civil society with relevant expertise inthe field to discuss any sectoral sub-project. The steering
   committee will take a decision on requestsreceived for resources from the challenge fund (see Annex
   6). The EASUwill liaise with the relevant line ministries, public enterprises and other agencies as
   requiredimplementing the reform agenda and overseeing the project administration implementation
   activities. The EASUwill report to the TASC.

52. The Economic Advisory Sewices Unit (EASU):            A specialized dedicated unit, the ``Economic
   Advisory Services Unit" will be created to coordinate the project activities and oversee the project
   implementation. The Unit will be staffed with full-time financial officer, procurement specialist and
   Deputy Project Coordinator who is a second-class gazetted technical officer to assist the Project
   Coordinator to monitor the project activities. The Team will be supported by two assistants and a
   computer operator. Under the guidance of the TASC, the unit would be responsible for providing
   necessary instructions to various implementing agencies, monitoring the activities of sub-projects
   approved by the Steering Committee, managing the flow of resources to the project components,
   preparing detailed statements o f expenditure based on information received and approved consulting
    expenditures incurred, and for producing timely progress reports. Detailed reviews would be carried
    out duringproject supervision.

53. The challengefund: The challenge fund is a pool of untiedresources that can be flexibly allocated to
    reforminitiatives once they have beenprepared, appraisedand approved. Inorder to access resources
    from the challenge fund, reform agencies would have to submit a well-developed concept note to the
    steering committee through the Economic Advisory Services Unit (see Annex 6). It is agreedthat the
    TA will be focused on implementation (rather than studies and planning exercises) o f reforms
    wherever possible. Short, timely and well-focused studies will be considered only if they are needed
    to implement a specific strategy. In order to protect the national interest, sectoral reforms under the
    proposed TA must be submitted for approval to the TASC. Each proposal to be funded under the
    challenge fund needs to be carefully thought through with the proposal clearly spelling out the
    objective, strategy to achieve the objective, the key challenges or bottlenecks, and how the proposed
    activity contributes to removing the bottlenecks in achieving the objective. The proposal may also
    need to assess the "likelihood" of the reform happening. Very specific and clear entry criteria for
    proposals need to be designed and adhered to. In order to monitor the success of the project, a
    monitoring framework should also be described. Proposals should take the form of a concept paper
    that spells out the reform implementationstrategy and highlevel policy decisions (see Annex 3). The
    concept paper can be submitted to the Bank for comments and amendments prior to submission to
    TASC for approval. Within the parametersof the approved concept paper, flexibility will be givento
    proceed expeditiously. TORSderived from the approved strategy paper need only be forwarded to the
    Bank by the EASU. The Bank will provide support by reviewing and strengtheningthe TORSupon
    request and ensuring that the suggested procurement procedures meet the national guidelines (see
    Annex 6).




                                                     13

Fundsflow and Disbursement Arrangements

54. The Economic Advisory Services Unit (EASU) of the National Planning Commission will prepare
    the annual budget in accordance with the annual program and implementation plan, and will be
    submitted to the Technical Assistance Steering Committee (TASC) for approval. Following the
    approval of the proposed program and budget by the TASC, the EASU submits its program and
    request for the budget to MOF. The NPC and MOF review the request and approve the budget
    submitted by the EASU. HMGN will indicate the budget as approved in the Red Book under a
    separate identifiable budget head in the name of the "Economic Reform Technical Assistance
    Project" referring World Bank as the source of funding. NPC will prepare a TA Operational
    Guidelines describing the detail procedures, institutional mechanism for fund disbursements, entry
    eligibility criteria, fund flow mechanism, internal control mechanism, procurement procedure, and
    monitoring and reporting mechanism. The TA Accounts created for the purpose of receiving all
    proceeds o f grants from IDA or other donor partners with prior concurrence o f TASC, will be
    maintained inthe Special Account which will be inU S Dollars at Nepal Rastra Bank. The Accounts
    will be operatedunder thejoint signature ofthe Project Coordinator and the FinancialOfficer.

55. Use o f IDA resources i s through the Foreign Exchange Account (Special Account) established to
    facilitate quick payments of various activities under the project. The special account funds will be
    primarily used for making direct payments and for transfer of funds to HMGN's consolidated fund
    after the statement o f expenditures are consolidated and reconciled. The special account will be
    managedunder thejoint signatureof the Project Coordinator and the Financial Officer.

56. Disbursements will be made to applicants against Memorandum of Understanding or contracts
    between EASU on behalf of the TASC, based on specific approved proposals in multiple tranches,
    based on delivery o f specific outputs of various reform oriented tasks or activities for sub-projects
    carefully selected and approved following certain approved criteria and norms. Disbursements will
    also be made for (a) the procurement of various equipments required for the strengthening o f the
    EASUinNPC, (b) the consultancy services for payments of various services including, supervision
    and monitoring of implementation of various activities, (c) various training, orientation program,
    study tours, seminars and workshop, (d) capacity buildingwhich include the EASUand TASC, and
    (e) incremental operating costs of the EASU.



3. Monitoringand evaluation of outcomeshesults

57. Monitoring and evaluation of results will be undertaken on a portfolio / outcomes approach. Each
     concept paper or proposal for fundingwill be carefully prepared including: (i) a clear indication of the
     objective; (ii)  strategy to achieve the objective; (iii) bottlenecks to be overcome; (iv) indication
                                                            key
     of how the bottlenecks will be overcome; and (v) assessment of the likelihood of the reform taking
    place (see Annex 3).

58. In addition to setting up a system o f monitoring and evaluation for this project, we hope to build
     public sector capacity to monitor and evaluate outcomes. One key component to achieve this aim i s
     the strengthening o f the Central Bureau o f Statistics and the Office of the Financial Comptroller
     General (see above).

59. Nepal has some o f the key elements needed to monitor the implementation of policies and programs
     at the ministry level and at the NPC. However, they still fall short of an effective monitoring system.
     Cognizant of this deficiency, the PRS lays strong emphasis on the development of a systematic



                                                       14

   monitoring systemwithin the government. Towards this end, the recently changedorganogram of the
   National Planning Commission has established a Poverty Monitoring and Analysis System (PMAS),
   to monitor how policies, programs and projects included in the PRS are being implemented. It
    includes a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (to monitor the performance of priority programs) under
   the Central Monitoring Unit. The proposal also streamlines and limits the number of surveys to be
   conducted; identifies intermediate and outcome indicators with their frequency of measurement,
    sources of information and major agencies responsible for supplying data and information; fund
   releases for all activities have been linked to PRS priorities; a system o f making budget allocations
   and expenditure reports public established; and Public Expenditure Tracking Surveys initiated.

60. Although the above initiatives have significantly strengthened the monitoring of development
    activities, there are a number o f areas where much more needs to be done. These areas include: (i)
    strengthening the present capacity of monitoring physical and implementation progress; (ii)         fully
    institutionalizethe PMAS and (iii)     strengthening the reporting of local level activities. The TA will
    provide this support.

4. Sustainability

61. The project is not intended to be sustainable over the longer term. It i s designed to support and
    implement a number of high profile reform initiatives. As such, all support is effectively being
    offered on a sunset clausebasis.

5. Critical risks andpossible controversial aspects

62. The risks underlyingreform implementationcan be mitigated and are balanced by the opportunity to
    strengthen the reform momentum. Moreover, these risks are balanced by the benefits that can be
    brought about by continued progress on the reform agenda. The major risks and challenges of such a
    program include:


    0    Governance: Although the project i s aimed at improving governance, some stakeholders have
         taken issue with the idea that one can support improvedaccountability, transparency and reduced
         corruption in the context of political instability. The project team has approached the challenge
         with an open mind. Given Nepal's recent violent history and the pro-poor records of several
         other Asian countries that do not enjoy political stability the team i s prepared to provide support
         within the current context.

    0    Increased conflict: An increase in the intensity of the conflict would dampen the impact of
         reforms and make it much more difficult to implement the reform program especially the
         decentralization and pro-poor service delivery aspects. As such the project needs to have an exit
         strategy. Hiringindividuals on one-year renewable contracts will achieve this objective.


     0   Tariff increases: Tariff increases for basic utilities and petroleum are never popular with the
         people who have to pay for them. Although petroleum prices were increased recently to
         international rates they mighthave to rise again given that oil prices remain high. It is important
         that the government continues to communicate why this i s important for the country and why
         subsidizing utilities i s a regressive measure.


     0   Mismanagementof resources: As with any project this is a potential risk. However, with a TA
         project the risk i s greater because it i s often impossible to point to something tangible that has
         been built or produced as a result of the assistance. To overcome this risk, a strong culture of


                                                        15

        transparency and accountability is necessary- using a high authority such as Cabinet and
        collective decision-making can guard against this. It i s also important to focus the project
        entirelyuponimplementationand avoidstudies, analysis and reports.

    0   Timely delivery: Certain reforms often have a window of opportunity in which they can be
        implemented. This means that the project will have to have a streamlined modus operandi in
        order to take advantage of the opportunity.            The several steps that lead from idea to
        implementation of the proposal should not take longer than a few weeks. This implies that the
        steering committee must meet regularly and that the Bank's internalteam providing no objections
        mustbeable to turnaroundrequestswithinafew days at most.


    0   QuickWins: There is a narrowingwindow of opportunity to implementthese reforms, and some
        "quick wins" are needed inkey areas to maintain credibility and support. Reformers are looking
        to `quick-wins' to deliver wide benefits and broaden the support for reforms. They are also using
        the Immediate Action Plan to set realistic implementation targets in line with capacity. Given
        such a situation, it i s clear that a 4-5 year project will not fit in with government's objectives or
        national needs. This calls for fast tracked TA support and a project cycle that i s either shortened
        to 2-3 years or heavily front-loaded. This situation also indicates the importance of the mass
        communications campaign to the government's reformobjectives.

     0  Lack of managementcapacity. The ERTA is beingplanned precisely because the public sector
        does not have the capacity to manage and implement the envisaged reforms alone. However, if
        lack of capacity implies that the public sector cannot manage the reforms alone, it i s fair to
        question whether there is capacity to manage the TA itself. Bringinginconsultants alone will not
        be useful unless they are extremely well managed. This will be addressedby creating a strong
        project coordinationunit andproviding support to line ministries undertakingimportantteforms.


     0  Duplication: There are a number of other donors active inNepal that is supporting various parts
        o f the reform program. I t i s important that such a wide-reaching TA project fundedby the Bank
        i s coordinated with other ongoing and planned donor efforts. The best way of doing this could be
        to establish the project and allow other donors to put money into the challenge fund. This way
        the public sector would effectively take leadership of the project and ensure that all TA requests
        were coordinated by the central steering committee.            The project team has also used the
        preparation mission as an opportunity to consult widely with other donors to avoid duplication.

6. Grant conditions and covenants

63. The conditions o f effectiveness include:

         (a)      A ProcurementPlansatisfactory to the Association hasbeenprepared;

         (b)      The TASC has beenestablished;

         (c)      The EASU has been established with an adequate number of professional staff with
skills, qualifications, experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, including (i)      a
project coordinator, (ii)a deputy project coordinator, (iii)financial officer, (iv) a procurement specialist
                                                               a
and (v) support staff as needed;

         (d)      The Operational Guidelines satisfactory to the Association hasbeenprepared; and




                                                        16

        (e)     The format of Financial Monitoring Report satisfactory to the Association has been
                prepared.




D. APPRAISAL SUMMARY

1. Economicand financialanalyses

64. Economic analysis: Where TA funds are usedto support sub-projects that have a clearly measurable
    economic rate of return or cost effectiveness, the steering committee supported by the Bank will
    complete an economic analysis and/or quantify the economic benefits of the sub-project.

65. Financial Analysis: A standardfinancial analysis i s not applicable to such a TA project. However, if
    successful, the project couldhave a significant fiscal impact as TA fundingwill beusedto address the
    under-pricing of services and commodities and will therefore contribute to restoring the fiscal
    balance. Where the TA is involved ina substantive reformarea, an attempt will be made to undertake
    an estimate of the fiscal impact of the reform measures.Clearly the reforms of the large infrastructure
    parastatals are likely to have a significant positive fiscal impact, although the size and sustainability
    of the impact will dependon the particular content and timing of the reforms actually undertaken.

66. As there are no recurrent costs associatedwith the provision o f TA, the project i s likely to improve
    the fiscal position considerably. Moreover, the successful early completion of key reform measures
    supported by the TA i s likely to trigger additional funding from the Bank's proposed PRSC I1and
    additional resourcesfrom the IMF.



2. Technical

67. Bank staff will have to appraise sub-projects over the threshold without having been involved
    extensively in the design and preparation of the sub-projects. However, ongoing dialogue and early
    review of the respective TORSand short listed candidateswill ensure technical quality and relevance.



3. Fiduciary

Financial Management

68. A financial management capacity assessment of the implementing agency, the National Planning
    Commission, was carried out, and is generally considered satisfactory subject to the completion of
    agreed actions for financial management improvement. The creation of the EASUunder the Poverty
    Monitoring Division inthe National Planning Commissionhas to be formalized and announced. The
    EASUhas to be appropriately staffed with the Joint Secretary o f the Poverty Monitoring Division as
    the Project Coordinator supported by a full-time second-class gazetted technical officer to assist the
    Coordinator, a full-time procurement specialist and a financial officer. The core team would be
    supported by two Assistants and a computer operator. Initially, the EASU may have to rely on
    national consultants to develop the system in strengthening the Unit. The Procurement Specialist, in
    particular, due to scarce resources within the government, may have to be recruited from the market.
    The Finance Officer, who should preferably be a second-class gazetted officer, will have to be a
    competent and experienced staff familiar with donor and government fund management procedures,


                                                      17

   and with the ability to take leadership inmanaging the TA financial activities. The EASUwill be the
   main administrative body of the TASC to provide necessary input for the TASC. The formation of
   the TASC has also to be appropriately formalized.

69. Under the guidance of the TASC, the EASU will prepare the Operational Guidelines which should
    describe amongst others the operational modalities, entry eligibility criteria, guidelines for preparing
   proposals for accessing challenge fund, monitoring mechanism, internal control mechanism,
   procurement procedure, audit arrangements and reporting arrangements. The World Bank will
    provide necessary guidance in the preparation of the Operational Guidelines. The annual project
    accounts (including statement of expenditures and special account) of the Grant will be maintained
   which will be audited by the Auditor General o f Nepal as required by the Constitution of the
    Kingdom of Nepal, with audit reports due within six months of the end of each fiscal year. The
    implementation progress report in the form o f Financial Monitoring Reports will be submitted on a
    trimester basis. For better internal review arrangements, the EASUmay recruit from time to time a
   professionally qualified accounting or management firm or individual to assess the control and
    performance of the project and sub-projects implementedthrough the challenge fund. The EASUwill
    organize orientation program to prospective applicants of the challenge fund briefing about the TA
    Operational Guidelines.

70. The risk associated with the system which is yet to be finalized and tested is high. In order to
    mitigate the risks, the implementing agency, the National Planning Commission i s taking all
    necessary steps to minimize the risks which include (a) formalization of the establishment of the
    EASU staffed with qualified and experienced staff and/or consultants, (b) formalization of the
    creation of a permanent Technical Assistance Steering Committee, (c) preparation and adoptionof the
    Operations Guidelines, (d) training and workshop on the process, (e) institutionalizing the
    accountability measures such as, supervision by the EASU, internal review process for special
    purpose through national consultants, performance audit by the Auditor General of Nepal, and
    making transparent of the funds disbursed to the applicants, and (0 improving the system as
    feedbacks are received and programs are implemented on the ground. Subject to the completion of
    actions agreed in the Action Plan, the financial management system to be adopted i s considered
    satisfactory.   The EASU will strengthen its monitoring capacity to monitor the accounts and
    performance of various applicants o f the challenge fund.

71. Financial Management Challenges: Economic Reform Technical Assistance Program managed by a
    high-level steering committee is a new initiative in Nepal geared towards providing necessary
    resources to help government ensure that ongoing sector dialogue is translated into tangible reforms.
    The program will be managedby the National PlanningCommissionthrough its Poverty Monitoring
    Division by creating a specialized and dedicated Economic Advisory Services Unit. The Unit will
    function under the policy guidance of the TechnicalAssistance Steering Committee to be chaired by a
    senior official of NPC. The key objective of this approachi s to mainstreamthe policies, mechanisms
    and approaches pioneered by this initiative into the government's mainstream development activities.
    Since the Unit has yet to be created, the Unit after its creation will be staffed with full time dedicated
    team of staff to manage the program. The financial management system and practices will basically
    follow the standardpractice followed in the country. The riskassociatedto the system which is yet to
    be finalized and tested is high. Inorder to mitigate the risks, the implementing agency, the National
    Planning Commission i s taking all necessary steps to minimize the risks which include (a)
    formalization of the establishment of the EASU staffed with qualified and experienced staff and/or
    consultants,    (b) formalization of the creation of a permanent Technical Assistance Steering
    Committee, (c) preparation and adoption of the Operations Guidelines, (d) training and workshop on
    the process, (e) institutionalizing the accountability measures such as, supervision by the EASU,
    internal review process for special purpose through national consultants, performance audit by the


                                                     18

   Auditor General o f Nepal, and making transparent of the funds disbursed to the applicants, and (0
   improving the system as feedbacks are received and programs are implemented on the ground.
    Subject to the completionof actions agreedinthe Action Plan, the financial managementsystemto be
   adopted is considered satisfactory. The EASUwill strengthen its monitoring capacity to monitor the
   accountsand performance of various applicants of the challenge fund.

4. Social

72. One social issue that is likely to arise from the reform process in general is employment. Reducing
    public sector intervention in the economy i s likely to be accompanied by changing patterns of labor
    demand and staffing within firms that are transferred from the public to the private sectors. A
    voluntary down-sizing process has begun in state banks and there are plans to amend the labor
    legislation to introduce greater labor market flexibility. These are signs that path is beingprepared
    for more voluntary retrenchment schemes in the public enterprises and within the public sector in
    general.

73. If such operations are planned in the future, their potential impact on the labor market and the
    economy in general should be studied as part of the operation. However, other funds can be used to
    study the feasibility of such options. The International Labor Organization (ILO) is currently in
    dialogue with Nepal on a potential social safety net to reduce the social burdens associated with
    adjustment. The project team is in constant dialogue with the ILO on this initiative which could
    receive Bank support ifappropriate.

74. Tariff increasesfor basic commodities such as petrol, electricity, water and transport are foreseen, and
    have startedto take place, as part of the reforms supported by this project. Inevery case the potential
    adverse impact on the poor has beedwill be studiedand mitigating measures will be taken to ensure
    that the poor are not adversely affected by the reform process. For instance, initial studies on the
    petroleum sector reveal that petrol and transport formed a very small part of the budget of poor
    households and providing these services below cost was effectively subsidizing middle income
    groups. The study also demonstrated that a significant amount of subsidized petroleum was being
    smuggled across the open border with India and therefore Nepal was effectively subsidizing India's
    consumption and creating corruption in the process. Potential hikes intariffs could be accompanied
    by concession fares as appropriate.

75. The project does not trigger any Bank policies on social issues and any subproject proposals that
    could trigger any of those Bank policies will not beapproved for the challenge fund.

5. Environment

76. The main environmental challenges inNepal pertain to the sustainable use of natural resources and
    adequate integration of environmental planning in development programs and their implementation.
    HMGN has responded to the environmental challenges by incorporating conservation activities in
     sectoral plans and programs. Furthermore, environment-related provisions have been incorporated in
    various acts.'      Despite these efforts to address environmental management, weak institutional
     capacity and poor coordinationhas constrained the implementationof various environmental policies
     and programs. There is also a significant gap between the content of the internationalenvironmental
     conventions and their implementationat the national level. With a large donor and NGO presence in

' Environmental provisions feature in the Local Self-Governance Act (1998), the Forest Act (1992), the National Parks and
Wildlife Conservation Act (1973 and amendedin 1993), the Environment Protection Act (1996).




                                                           19

   this area, the CAS proposes that Bank involvement inthe environmental agenda be highly selective,
   focusing on helping HMGN articulate an effective strategy for environmental conservation,
   managementand capacity building.

77. There are three types of policy reforms supported by the proposed TA that may potentially have an
    environmental impact: (i)PE reform; (ii)phasing out of the kerosene subsidy and (iii)
    expanding access to electricity. Incases where PE's are leased or sold to the private sector, HMGN
    would retain liability for any past irreversible impacts (stemming from land use changes and air
    pollution emissions).     Assets that are sold would be operated under existing environmental
   regulations pertaining to soil excavation and control of industrial emissions. The phasing out of the
    kerosene subsidy is also unlikely to lead to any significant increase in firewood consumption as it i s
    mainly used for cooking inurban areas and among the relatively well-off. Hence the environmental
    impact i s expectedto be negligible. Finally, the reforms to increase access to electricity inrural areas
    center around the promotion of small and medium scale hydropower projects that will replace the
    need for fossil fuel based power generation plants. Moreover, the expansion of grid connected
    electricity will reduce the demand for kerosene used for lighting thereby reducing the impact of
    kerosene subsidy elimination on poor households.

78. The project does not trigger any Bank policies on environmental issues and any subproject proposals
    that could trigger any of those Bank policies will not be approved for the challenge fund.

6. Safeguard policies

  Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project                                         Yes                   No
 Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)                                             [I                    [XI
                                                                                       ~~


 Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)                                                        [I                    [XI
 PestManagement COP 4.09)                                                              [I                    [XI
  Cultural Property (OPN 11.03, being revised as OP 4.11)                              [I                    [XI
  Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)                                                [I                    [XI
  Indigenous Peoples(OD 4.20, being revised as OP 4.10)                                [I                    [XI
  ForestsCOP/BP 4.36)                                                                  [I                    [XI
  Safety ofDams (OP/BP 4.37)                                                           [I                    [XI
  Projects inDisputedAreas (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*                                             [I                   [XI
  Projects on InternationalWaterways COPIBPIGP 7.50)                                    [I                   [XI

Any subproject proposals that could trigger any of the Bank policies on safeguard issues will not be
approved for the challenge fund.


7. Policy Exceptions and Readiness

79. The project complies with all Bank policies and procedures; no exceptions are sought.




*By supporting theproposedproject, the Bank does not intendtoprejudice thejnal determination ofthe parties' claims on the
disputed areas



                                                           20

                        Annex 1:Country andSector or ProgramBackground
                                  NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA


1. At the macroeconomic level, the Nepali economy has shown unusual resilience to the adverse
climateof insecurity and politicalstrife. According to preliminary estimates, the economy grew by 3.5
percent in FY2003/04, compared to 3.1 percent growth the previous fiscal year. Growth in both the
agricultural and non-agricultural sectors (3.7 and 3.3 percent respectively) contributed to Nepal's steady
recovery since the contraction inFY2001/02 (Table 1). The strong growth intourism receipts partly the
                                                                                                   -
result o f aggressive marketing by the private sector and Nepal Tourism Board - and unprecedented
increase inremittances have bolstered aggregate demand and helped counteract the adverse impact of the
conflict on growth. CPI inflation (on an annual average basis) declined to 4 percent in FY2003/04
compared to 4.7 percent the previous fiscal year. The growth forecast was lowered for the ongoing fiscal
year from an initial 4.5 percent to 4 percent, largely on account of non economic factors like blockades in
various parts of the country that has dampenedmanufacturing growth and a 3.7 percent decline inpaddy
production over the last year due to drought and floods inthe Terai'.

2. The country's prudentfiscal stance throughout FY2003/04 hasbeenpreservedin the FY2004/05
budget framework. In FY2003/04, revenue exceeded budgetary targets as income tax and excise
collections registered robust growth on account of reforms implemented in customs and tax
administration. On the expenditure side, despite an anticipated shortfall owing to the deteriorated security
climate - particularly on investment in infrastructure projects and District Development Committee
(DDC) and Village Development Committee (VDC) grants              - development spending was 13 percent
higher than the previous fiscal year. However, substantial implementation risks challenge fiscal
performance in FY2004/05. The mid-term budget review in January lowered revenue expectations by 2
percent. Nonetheless, an anticipated NRs 2.2 billion increase in revenue due to an increase in the VAT
rates from 10percent to 13 percent from the secondhalfof the fiscal year will keep pressures on domestic
financing low. Additionally, the resources thus raised will also finance additional security measures for
the upcomingelectionwithout derailing the fiscal framework.

 3. Maintainingprice stability and consolidating the balance of payments (BOP) position are the
 primary objectivesof the monetarypolicyfor FY 2004/05. With inflationtargeted at 4 percent and the
 BOP surplus projected to increasenon-financial asset holdings ofNepalRastraBank (NRl3) by 9 percent,
 there will be no unnecessary pressure on the current exchange rate peg o f the rupee (with the Indian
 rupee). The real effective exchange rate has been stable so far and is likely to remain so. Despite the
 challenges inthe external sector arising from the phasing out of the Multi-FiberArrangement (MFA), the
 government is comfortable with the current level of peg with the Indian rupee and is committed to
 accelerating reforms to relieve key "behind the border" constraints to increase export competitiveness.
 Broad money growth, which was, 14 percent in FY 2003/04 is expected to slow down to 12.5 percent in
 FY 2004/05 as part ofthe increasedmoney demand arisingout of the projected real growth of 4.5 percent
 in the economy will be met by the liquidity overhang from the previous fiscal year. This growth will
 comfortably accommodate domestic financing needs of the public sector budget while at the same time
 provide space for realprivate sector credit growth of 9 percent.




 ~~




   Paddy alone accounts for roughly 14 percent ofNepal's GDP.

 The Manufacturing Production Index (MPI) grew by 3.8 percent during the first quarter of FY 2004105 compared to
  a 4.9 percent increase duringthe same period last year.


                                                         21

                                 Table 1:Selected Economic Indicators 1998/99-2003/04

                                                                      1998/99 1999100 2000/01 2001/02 2002/03 2003/04
                                                                                                              Prelim
     GDP growth rates
      RealGDP at factor cost                                              4.5     6.1     4.8    -0.5     3.1      3.5
      Agricultural GDP                                                    2.8     4.9     5.5     2.2     2.5      3.7
      Non-agricultural GDP                                                5.6     6.8     4.3    -2.1     2.9      3.3
        Manufacturing                                                     5.3     7.2     3.8     -10       2        2
        Other Sectors                                                     5.7     6.8     4.4    -0.6     3.5      3.9

     Government budget (percentof GDP)
      Total revenue                                                      10.2    10.7    11.4    11.5    12.3    12.3
      Total expenditure                                                  15.4    15.7    17.6    17.2    16.0    16.2
        Currentexpenditure                                                9.4     9.6    11.2    11.6    11.5    11.6
        Capital expenditureand net lending                                6.1     6.1      6.4     5.7    4.6      4.7
      Overall deficit beforegrants                                         5.2      5      6.2     5.7     3.7     3.9
      Overalldeficit after grants                                          3.9    3.5      4.5    4.3      1.6     1.3
       Domesticfinancing (net)                                             1.4    0.9      2.7     2.9     0.9    -0.2

     Inflation- CPI (average)                                            11.4     3.4      2.1     2.9     4.7     4.0
     Current account balance (excludinggrants)                             0.5    0.5      1.2     2.6     0.3     0.1
     Gross official reserves(in monthsof importsof goods and services)     4.9    5.6        7     6.7     6.7     6.4
     External debt/ GDP (in percent)                                     50.3    48.2    49.9    52.9    51.5    46.9
     Debt service (percentof exports of goods and services)                5.3    4.7      6.1     7.5     4.9     4.5

     Source: IMF




4. Nepal's current account and reservesremainedhealthy despite a widening trade gap. The trade
gap widened by 17 percent over FY2003/04 mainly on account of an increase in imports indicating a
pick-up in economic activity and a marginal fall in export revenues. The current account remains in
surplus, largely due to hefty growth inremittances which now constitute about 12 percent of GDP. The
main source of remittances i s Nepali workers employed in the Middle East, Malaysia and South Korea.
Gross official reserves stood at over $1.2 billion, sufficient to cover almost six and a half months o f
imports. Over the last fiscal year, external debt as a proportion of GDP has declined significantly as a
portion of the shortfall inplanned development spendingwas usedto retire highinterest rate bearing short
term foreign loans. Concurrently, the debt service payments (expressed as a share of goods and services
exported) have also declined from 4.9 percent inthe previous fiscal year to 4.5 percent inFY2003/04.




                                                                22

        Annex 2: Major RelatedProjectsFinancedby the Bank and/or other Agencies
                             NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA

Major relatedprojects financed by the Bank andor other development agencies(completed, ongoing and
planned).




[mplementationDevelopment                                                    Progress(IP)       Objective
Bank-financed                                                                                     (DO)
3ngoingProjects                                                                   S                 S

Zconomic ReforminSouth Asia             (India) Technical Assistance
                                                -                                 S                 S
Region                                  for Economic Reform

Financial Sector Reforms                Central Bank of Sri Lanka                 S                  S
                                        Strengthening

Private Participationin                 PPIAF                                     S                  S
Infrastructure

Private Participationin                 Private Sector Infrastructure              S                U
Infrastructure Development Project
(PSIDP)

Energy Sector Reform and TA             Renewable Energy for Rural                 S                 S
                                        and Economic Development

Economic Reforms                        Sri Lanka -PovertyReduction
                                        Support Credit

Financial Sector ReformTA               Financial Sector Appraisal

Project - T A Follow-up

Other Development Agencies

Economic Reforms                        IMF Standby Arrangement

Economic Reforms                        ADB -Private Sector

Development Project

PlannedProjects

Economic Reforms                        IMF - PRGF


IPDORatings: H S (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U(Unsatisfactory), HU(Highly Unsatisfactory)




                                                      23

                           Annex 3: ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
                                NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA

MonitoringandEvaluation

It is proposed that the project monitoring and evaluation be undertaken on the basis of a portfolio /
outcome approach (see below). Given the uniquenature of the project, it is proposedthat the muchof the
monitoring takes place upstreamthrough clear entry criteria and well-developedconcept papers that will
outline the objectivesand strategies of the initiatives to be funded.

Concept note approach

The strengthof the reforms undertakenwill depend on the strength of the concept notes uponwhich they
are based. Itis importantthat the concept notes are:


    0    Focusedon implementation: i.e. that they point to a clear outcomethat the reform initiative will
         bring about. Ideally it should be something that should be measurable (although not necessarily
         quantitatively).
     0   Include a clearly definedstrategyto achieve the statedoutcomeor objective.
     0   Include a discussionof the key bottlenecksthat are preventingthe achievement of this objective
         and an indication of how the reform initiative will overcomethese bottlenecks.
     0   An outline of the intermediateresultsindicatorsandatimeline for their realization.
     0   An assessment of how likely to be implemented is the particular reform. This will allow the
         steering committee an opportunity to weigh up the risks and potential rewards of a particular
         initiative.

It is important that the TA contracts that are developed from the concept notes include very specific
deliverables,arelationbetweenthe inputs andthe outputsexpected as well as a clearbudgetfor the work.

Clear entvy criteria

It is important that the project establishes clear and well known entry criteria. This will ensure that the
EASUis not swapped by irrelevant proposalsthat do not meet the priority reform areas or objectives of
the proposedTA project. It i s suggestedthat the entry criteria could include;

     (i)      Scope: Within the four areas outlined above (governance and public sector management,
              accelerating privatization, improving service delivery and implementing a strategic
              communicationsprogram). Other initiatives that fall outside this area but are none the less
              firmly within the PRS will be consideredby the steeringcommittee on an exceptionalbasis.
     (ii)     Champion: The initiative must have a high-level champion that is preparedto support the
              concept and hold individuals and teams accountable for achievingthe results. It should have
              an adequate set-up or institutional mechanismthat can deliver on the concept.
     (iii)    Concept note: A proposal must be accompanied by a well developed concept note (as
              above).
     (iv)     Priority area: The proposal should be deemed by the steering committee to be a reform
              priority with acceptable risks commensurate with the potential rewards and should be a
              timely intervention.

 The final entry criteria and results framework will be agreed upon by the steering committee in
 consultationwith IDA andcould be modified as necessaryduring project implementation.


                                                       24

 0
 w       0     0     0 0    0   0   0
         W      W    w w    d   a   a




e    e              e   e          e




e      e                   e  * e




e   0 .  e  e              e        e   0   0




 e

ResultsFramework

                                          OutcomeIndicators               Use ofOutcomeInformation
Strengthenpublic sector capacity to (ey reforms in the following areas    t'l-Y2 monitor reformprogress and
implementits economic reform        mplemented; (i) Improved              iupport government decisions on
agenda.                             3ovemance and public sector           illocation o f challenge fund
                                    nanagement, (ii)Improved service-     'esources. Feed into PRSC I1
                                    lelivery, (iii)accelerated            ,reparation.
                                    irivatization and (iv) strategic      f 3 determine ifproject is on track
                                    :ommunications undertaken.            mdwhat changes, ifany, are needed
                                                                          itthe mid-termreview.



       IntermediateResults           ResultsIndicatorsfor Each              Use of ResultsMonitoring
       OneperComponent                          Component
ComponentOne:                       ComponentOne:                         ComponentOne:
Improved govemance and public       Passingthe Governance and Civil       Y1-Y2 progress will indicate
sector management                   Service Amendment Acts.               whether the remainder o f the public
                                    Implementing the MTEF.                administration reformprogram can
                                                                          move ahead.



ComponentTwo:                       ComponentTwo :                        ComponentTwo:
Improved service delivery           Legislative review o f health and     Y1- will indicate willingness to
                                    education sector decentralization     consolidate current gains in
                                    initiative.                           decentralization o f service delivery.
                                    Improved community management.        Y2 -will show intent to tackle
                                    Creation o f autonomous HIVIAIDS      HIV/AIDs.
                                    unit.

  ComponentThree:                   ComponentThree:                       ComponentThree:
  Accelerated privatization         Privatization o f a stake inat least  Y1- will reveal ifgovernmentis serious
                                    one o fthe three identifiedpublic     aboutthe privatizationagenda.
                                     enterprises..
                                     Creation o f a separatebody for
                                     privatization.


                                                                           ComponentFour:
~~ComponentFour:
      ~                              Component Four:
  Strategic communications           Completion o f the communications     Y1-will show the level of
                                     audit and commencement o f            awarenessthrough improved
                                     strategic communications program.     communications
                                                                           Y2-Y3 will indicate whether there is
                                                                           consensus from all stakeholders on
                                                                           the economic reform agenda.




                                                        26

                      g
                      ax8
                      e
                      E



                      iij


          I go


.         I



               s      g
               0
               2      o



               z B
 I I I

Annex 4: Detailed Project Description
                                NEPAL: Nepal Economic ReformTA


Introduction

The projectwill focus on four key areas that are highlightedbelow:

                    (i)    Improvedgovernance and public sector management;
                    (ii) AcceleratedPrivatization;
                    (iii) ImprovingServiceDelivery;and
                    (iv)    Strategic Communications.


1. Improved Governance andPublic Sector Management

Context

While Nepal has made considerable progress in establishing the elements of a modern parliamentary
democracy and public administration, there i s widely perceived to be a gap bemeenthe rhetoric of good
governance and the reality of administration. The focus on Governance inthe 10thPlan and the PRSC is
evidence of the increasing recognition that Nepal's development challenge is fundamentally linked to
improving governanceto enable equitable and broadbasedgrowth, improve service delivery and facilitate
social inclusion.

Although there is considerable support to the objective of improving service delivery and making the
public sector more effective and accountable, there is often less thought given to the medium and long
term changes in institutional structures requiredto make reform sustainable. Programs of activity need to
be sequencedkeepingthis larger reform framework inmind. Very oftenreformhas beenattempted at the
level of policies and/or activities without recognizingthat much more fundamental changes are needed at
the institutional level to make these policy changes andactivity levelchanges sustainable.

The Governance Reform Program

The Government has a clear strategy to improve Governance which is focused on civil service reform and
development, strengthening anti-corruption measures and supporting better service delivery

The civil service reform agenda remains extremely important.           To make the civil service more
accountable and efficient, HMGNwill need to revise its recruitment and promotionpolicies, manage and
monitor the performance o f human resources more effectively and buildnew skills and capacities among
civil servants.    A variety of initiatives need to be implemented to make the civil service more
representative of Nepali society as a whole. Departments need to develop a citizen focus and set service
 standards.   Measures to insulate civil servants from arbitrary political interference will need to be
 strengthened. In addition Agency reforms and institutional reforms in district administration will be
neededto be taken forward over the coming years and institutional capacity to effectively carry out anti-
corruption programs will needto be strengthened.




                                                     28

A key reforms area is the need to strengthen the policy framework by defining boundaries between
the political and administrative spheres. One of the most dysfunctional features of Nepal's
administration has been frequent transfers and lack of stable tenure within the bureaucracy. The draft
Governance Act currently circulating within HMGN is an extremely important piece of legislation that
seeks to establish a proper set of roles and responsibilities for politicians and bureaucrats, with the goal of
helping to eliminate arbitrary or improper movement of personnel. The Government also plans to
introduce amendments to the Civil Service Act which will provide the legislative framework for a policy
of affirmative recruitment. An Umbrella Public Administratiomanagement Act i s under consideration
that will harmonize the rules within which the entire civil service and public administration functions.

HumanResourceManagementand Development

While public employment is not overly large, it suffers from problems of inappropriate skills mix, heavy
wage compression, and low productivity. The composition ofNepal's civil service is particularly skewed
towards the lower tiers. A particularly striking feature of.Nepal's civil service i s the heavily compressed
wage structure, which is among the worst inboth South Asia and the developing world. The compression
ratio (defined as the ratio of highest to lowest paid) in the Nepalese core civil service i s 3.6 (for salary)
and 3.3 (for total net compensation), which means that a ministry secretary i s paid only three and a half
times more than a peon in the same ministry. The result is an extraordinarily flat pay structure that is
making it increasingly difficult to motivate employees and to attract the best talent into the public sector

With the assistance of the ADB and other donors, HMGNhas made substantial progress on civil service
reform issues inrecent years. A Personnel Information System (PIS) has been developed that, for the first
time, is capable of providing accurate, real-time information on the size and composition o f the civil
service. The PIS is beinglinkedto the payroll systemto create a comprehensive human resource database
(essential for tracking posts, vacancies, transfers, and forecasting future salary and pension liabilities).

Improving employee performance, productivity and motivation are key challenges facing HMGN.
Performance evaluation remains under-utilized as a management tool and has virtually no role in any
human resource function beyond promotion, such as placement, transfer, compensation and career
development.      The current system is cumbersome and lacks transparency; it does not allow for
intermediate feedback to enable corrective action. Clear job descriptions do not exist against which
performance can be measured.            Capacity for performance assessment i s low and there i s little
understanding of its value as a managerial tool for performance improvement and staff development.

Strengtheningthe MediumTerm ExpenditureFramework

There is growing concern over the limited impact o f public expenditures on improved service delivery,
governance and accountability inNepal. To address these concerns, HMGNimplementedwide-ranging
reforms o f including public expenditure management focused on improving the allocation of expenditures
and improvingaccountability for resources, outputs and results.

In2000, Public Expenditure ReformCommission(PERC) recommendedseveralmeasuresto improvethe
planning and budget allocation to outputs through the formulation of Medium Term Expenditure
Framework (MTEF). In 2001, several measures were implemented to improve budgeting and maintain
fiscal discipline in an uncertain conflict environment, as well as prioritize and align resources to fund
poverty reductionactivities inthe context of the PRS. The MTEF was introduced- initially infive sectors
and later expanded to the whole development budget from fiscal year 2003. The budget implementation
effectiveness i s also supported by the following reform measures: (a) all activities are prioritized and
priority activities (P1 activities) fully funded; (b) usingdifferential release mechanisms priority activities



                                                       29

received one third of the budget inthe beginningo f the year while others received one sixth; (c) to ensure
accountability; further release of funds were based on performance of activities; (d) to reduce the
fungibility of allocated budget, line Secretaries were debarred from making transfer of funds in budget
lines; and (e) to address capacity concerns, an Immediate Action Plan was implemented alongside the
expenditure reforms.

Further refinements to the MTEF process continued in the fourth year with the introduction of unit
costing, budget classification into current and capital and further prioritization. More than 140 public
sector officials were trained in MTEF and assessed activities in terms of pro-poor impact. The MTEF
process has enabled the public sector to maintain fiscal disciple under rising security expenditure
pressure, increase pro-poor expenditure, secure two Sector Wide Approaches (SWAPS) and receive
budget support from the IFIs.

Notwithstanding this impressive progress, the MTEF process still needs to be broadened and deepened
across the public sector and additional measures are needed including; donor harmonization, increasing
institutional capacity, improving the alignment o f plans to budgets. This will require a concerted effort on
technical and change managementprocedures that could be supported through the TA.

StrengtheningCustomsAdministration

The Department of Customs embarked upon a "Three Year Custom Reform and ModernizationAction
Plan" in FY 2003/04 to keep up with international norms and best practices. The work plan includes
reforms in the valuation system, customs simplification, harmonization of customs procedures, and
development of physical facilities, risk management, customs integrity, passenger clearance system and
training. A change inthe organizational structure i s considered imperative for effective implementationof
the work plan. Whilst progresshas beennotedinseveralareas (such as strengthening ASYCUDA system
through automation, establishing valuation database, introduction of post clearanceaudit, establishment of
customs procedure and client service department code of conduct, there is significant room for
improvement inexpediting the Action Plan.

Potentialareas of technical assistance include; logistics and training of staff members.Developing human
resources to meet WTO requirements by 2013 and adopting practices of World Customs Organizationis a
major challenge. Whilst computerization i s essential in order to meet the objectives o f the three year
plan, only a few offices actually have computers and moreover, not all who have a desktop are computer
literate. Automation of strategic customs offices (eight in number), trainer's training, harmonization of
H S code with trade database of Nepal Rastra Bank, establishment of customs library, and preparation of
detailed manual are considered immediate priorities for which they are keen to avail financial support.

 Support to the Department of Customs will be coordinated with the work o f other donor agencies engaged
 inthis area including ADB (installationof Wide-Area-Network inseven offices, andone ICD component
 for Kakarbhitta Office), USAIDand the WTO Secretariat.

 Strengtheningthe InstitutionalFrameworkfor AntiCorruption

 A number of impressive initiatives to combat corruption have been taken including setting up a National
 Vigilance Centre and the Commission for Investigation o f Abuse of Authority (CIAA) which is the only
 constitutionally independent anti-corruption body in South Asia. While the record on enforcement and
 prevention has improved, considerable work remains in improving the capacity, professionalism and
 outreach of these units. Expanding enforcement activities to the districts and expeditiously processing
 anti-corruption cases will be an important area of Governance activity. There needs to be a renewed



                                                      30

focus on strengthening prevention through analysis of corruption prone processes and through a public
communication and outreach strategy that informs citizens of their rights.

Suggestedareas for TA support

Given these challenges, it is important that the governance reform is prioritized and sequenced. Initial
analysis suggests that there a consensus has emerged on core areas where TA support could be focused
including:

1) Human resource management and development including support where necessary for
communicating and implementing policy changes envisaged under the proposed Civil Service
Amendment Act, the Governance Act, and the Umbrella Public Administrationhlanagement Act.
Strengthening MOGA's capacity to manage an integrated human resource finction and to support
Administrative Reform Commission (ARC) and Administrative Reform Monitoring Committee (ARMC)
inmonitoring progress on reform couldbe an important focus. Supporting the reform agendawithin the
civil service including wage decompression, position reclassification, performance management, pension
reform and health insurance remain important priorities. The public sector i s also keento expanding the
human resource management information system and set up a transparent and effective recruitment,
transfer and promotionprocessthat is supportive of inclusion
            -
(2) Improvinginstitutions to deliver better services including support to the country's decentralization
efforts could be a focus on the TA. This could include support to analysis and implementation of the
institutional framework to support decentralized recruitment and management o f local cadres as well as
support to line ministries to re-engineer business processes for better planning and coordination of
activities including better information managementand monitoring.

(3) Strengthening anti-corruption initiatives including support to the institutions charged with
enforcement preventionand public awarenesslike the CIAA and the National Vigilance Centre to expand
institutional reach. This could include support for analysis and implementation of reforms aimed at
changing business practices to ensure transparency and accountability.

(4) Implementing Public Procurement Legislation including support to the proposed procurement
regulatory body that deals with public procurement policy and oversight, and independent review panel,
and support to the capacity buildinginprocurement.

(5) Improving financial accountability including supporting the implementation of the development
action plans resulted from the country financial accountability assessment, and update reviews of the
country's fiduciary riskassessment.


2.       ACCELERATING PRIVATIZATION

Context

The private sector in Nepal is characterized by heavy public sector involvement in economic activities
through the ownership and operation of 46 public enterprises (PES) in all sectors of the economy. These
PEScontinue to represent a drain on the economy due to;

(i)      Continued financial losses:      It is impossible to get an accurate figure of the financial
         performance o f PESas only 37 wholly publicly owned PESare included in the Government's


                                                   31

        annual Targets and Performance of Public Enterprises (also known as the Yellow Book).
        However, recent MoF data indicate that the majority of PESmade losses (20 out of 37). The
        largest loss-makers are traditionally Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation(WAC), and the utilities.
        The only PE to make significant profits was Nepal Telecommunication Corporation. Each year
        government is forced to pump in about NRs 2 billion to subsidize PE operating losses. Although
        earlier losses at RastriyaBanijya Bank (RBB) and recent lossesat NOC dwarf this amount.

        The Auditor-General's Office has cast doubt on some of the financial figures claimed by profit-
        making PESstating that in the absence o f effective oversight, they have manipulated their profit
        margins by adjusting property valuations.

(ii) Overstaffing:        In the 12 years since the restoration of multiparty democracy, successive
        administrations have manipulated the PESfor political purposes. As a result staffing in PESi s
        currently running at approximately 40,000 compared to a total of 88,000 civil servants. In
        addition to pressure to hire, political interference has also led to increased unionization and
        deteriorating labor discipline and physical performance.         Removing capable and efficient
        managers for political ends has often resulted in weakened performance. Last year's budget
        established a hiringfreeze on the PESalthough a small number of technical personnel have been
        hiredsincethen.

(iii)   Weak Corporate Governance: Most of the management teams belong to the bureaucratic cadre
        and lack the training and professionalism required, resulting inpoor physical performance. The
        Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC) has been consistently unable to deliver adequate fertilizer
        to farmers on a timely basis thus contributing to low agricultural yields. The Nepal Food
        Corporation has been unable to deliver food supplies to the impoverished western regions
        resulting in shortages and famine. RBB's accumulated losses and huge non-performing loan
        portfolio (prior to external managementteam beinginplace) resulted inhighintermediationcosts
        and lack of competition in the domestic banking sector. This situation i s a result o f a complete
        lack of any system of accountability and weak ownership on behalf of the relevant line ministry.

The broad program of privatization

Starting in 1992, 18 PES were privatized.        However, only two of these privatizations, Nepal Tea
Corporationand Butwal Power Company took place since 1997. Inmany cases the public sector retained
a significant stake in the post-privatized entity sometimes as much as 49%. Retaining a stake in these
companies has allowed the public sector to continue to be represented on the board of these corporations
and continue to influence their operations. It has also given the new owners an excuse to seek public
sector protectionand patronage.

The majority of privatizationshave not been successful. Five of the 16 PESprivatizedbetween 1992 and
1997 have been closed down and the public sector had to bear the liabilities (e.g. the Agricultural Tool
Company and the Bhaktapur Bricks Factory) when the lessee didnot meet its obligations.

A 1999 study prepared by the Privatization Cell of the MOF lists the following reasons for the failed
privatization initiative; labor issues, undeveloped capital market, under-developed corporate culture,
opaque transactions, and political instability. These issues continue to plague the privatizationprogram.

The Butwal Power Company was privatized in 2003 with the sale of a 75% stake worth NRs 871m and
US$lm to Intercraft a joint Norwegian-Nepali venture. The public sector continues to hold a 25% stake
inthe company. The new company has committed to the purchaseagreementto maintain all the current
staff.


                                                    32

It i s clear that there are a number of weaknesses in the privatization process. Firstly, government has
faced difficulty in transferring these assets to the private sector at market value. There remains a
reticence on the part of some sectors of government to completely divest from these companies. This
does not send a clear signal to the private sector and serves to attract rent-seekers. The privatization
process itself i s weak and non-transparent. The Auditor General (AG) claims that even a decade after the
liquidation of certain PES, the public sector i s still allocating money for them as the process remains
incomplete. The AG's office i s working with the privatization cell to ensure that this situation does not
recur.

Where PEShave beentransferred to private hands through a share sale and purchase agreement, there has
until recently been no monitoring or enforcement of the contract conditions.              This has allowed
unscrupulous investors to renege on their announced agreements.

A number of restrictions on the use of land mean that future owners are attracted to privatization
candidates for speculative reasons (see below).          Previous privatization programs have not been
accompanied by a comprehensive communications campaign and as such the failed outcomes have
contributed to a continuingnegative perception of privatizationamongst a wide number o f stakeholders.

Both DFlD and ADB have disbursed large amounts o f TA in a vain attempt to get the privatization
process moving. Rather than get involved inthis broader process, it i s proposed that the TA is targeted at
big ticket privatizations (see below).

FocusedTA support to privatizeRNAC, NOC andNTC

Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC): Until the recent price hikes, NOC's losses threatenedfiscal sustainability.
Not only did it subsidize prices but it cross subsidized prices leading to distorted consumption patterns
such as substitutions of diesel with kerosene which in turn had a detrimental impact on health outcomes.
Artificially low prices also resultedinlarge quantities beingsmuggled across the open border to India.

Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (WAC): With the downturn in tourist arrivals, RNAC has begun to
make major losses that have been as highas N R s 2.5 billion inrecent years. With two large planes and
five smaller craft that fly the domestic routes, RNAC is overstaffed with more than 1600 employees. As
other airlines around the world and within the region have shown, there is no need for public sector
involvement in this sector. Successful private sector domestic carriers have emerged since the domestic
routes were liberalized in 1993 and there i s sufficient interest from international carriers inRNAC that a
fast-tracked privatization of the airline should be considered.

RNAC has already commissioned a study by the InternationalCivil Aviation Organization(ICAO) on the
proposed sale of the airline. Although the consultants' report presenteda number of options it seems that
there is most interest in selling the airline "as is" but creating the domestic carrier as a subsidiary of the
international carrier through a holding company arrangement. They hope that this will allow government
to provide an operating subsidy to the domestic routes to remote rural areas that would not otherwise be
financially viable. Government i s thinking about selling a 30-40% stake to a strategic partner along with
managementcontrol. The remainder of the shares would be dividedbetween the public sector (40%), the
general public (10%) and the employees (10%).

Despite not flying to any European destinations, RNAC still owns several landing slots in key European
capitals. RNAC has not managed to lease these despite strong interest from other airlines. Clearly as
they are of no use to RNAC they would represent a major attraction to a potentialbuyer.



                                                      33

The next steps towards the privatization include turning the corporation into a company and registering
under the companies act. RNAC would then get transactions advisers to support the sale process. They
are considering rehiringICAO to undertake such a study that would suggest a privatization model, draft a
new act, and draw up the memorandum of understanding for the new company and devise new service
conditions for the employees. The follow-on study i s expectedto cost around NRs 15 million.

Unfortunately despite substantial losses rather than trim existing routes, RNAC management has
approachedthe board requesting funds to purchase new aircraft to fly long haul and regionalroutes. This
i s clearly not warranted given the company's current situation and TA resources should be contingent on
not expanding the fleet prior to a decision beingtaken on the proposed sale.

Nepal Telecom 0:NT operates in an almost monopoly market and its dominant position inthe fixed
services segment and de facto monopoly in the cellular segment, allows it to make significant profits.
However, NT's performance benchmarked against its peers indicates that it i s one of the poor performers
in the region. Although the company returns a dividendto government, that dividend comes at a huge
price to the rest of the economy which continues to suffer from inadequate access to services, high
communications costs and poor service quality.

There is commitment to selling a strategic stake in NT (as announced in the last budget) and a
consultancy is currently underway to assist with the further commercialization and restructuring of NT.
The consultancy includes a valuation of assets and liabilities, and recommends a privatization modality.
There were plans to float an initial 10% stake to the generalpublic and 5% to the employees inthe current
financial year. This i s not likely to happen given the few months that remain to the end of the financial
year.

  'able 2: Nepa Telecom Be chmarked Ai                               titors


                     Main         Cellular               Ratio o f    Telephone
                                   Mobile                               Service      Mobile

     Country      Telephone                                                         Revenue
                    Lines in     Telephone                             Revenue      (US$) per
                   Operation     Subscribers    Ratio      Main       (US$) per
                                   (Total                  Lines          line      subscriber


                     (l000)         ('000)

  Nepal                   372             50        14          97          177.0         258.7
  India                48917           26154        53        NIA            NIA          141.6
  Sri Lanka               939           1393       148          35          280.7          88.8
  Pakistan               3983           2625        66           6          299.8         313.7
  Bangladesh              740           1365       184          35          454.0         314.0

  ource: ITU200




                                                     34

3.       ImprovingServiceDelivery

Nepal has significantly improved child survival rates, reduced fertility rates and achieved gains in
communicable disease control during the 1990s. However, critical challenges remain, including a high
maternal mortality rate of 539 per, 100,000 live births and widespread malnutrition. Weak institutional
capacity, inadequatepublic financing and inefficient spending, limitedcoverage and poor service quality,
poor value from private health spending and a difficult topography, all impact health service outcomes.
HMGN has developed a health sector strategy to address these issues.                  The strategy includes
decentralizing service delivery, introducing an Essential Health Care Package that focuses on
reproductive health, child health, communicable disease control and improved outpatient services and
public-private partnerships.

Similarly in the education sector, Nepal is moving away from public sector delivery of school education
to delivery by school management committees led by local communities in partnership with support
organizations and with technical and financial support from the public sector. This i s a profound shift and
to make this transition successful there i s a needto develop new skills within the public sector, and build
the capacity of school managementcommittees and support organizations

It is realized that reforming the higher civil service is no substitute for reforming administrative structures
and public sector processes. Policy prescriptions will not work when systems of modem government are
not unavailable at the delivery edge. While policy reform can set the overall objectives o f government, it
i s the interaction between service providers and clients that ultimately defines the quality of service
delivery. Local units of governance have had little investment over the years and there is an immediate
need to strengthen local government by delegating more staff and resources to enable better planning,
prioritization and monitoring. A Local Bodies Service Commission will be set up to recruit and manage
local bodies civil servants locally. To implement this would require fundamental changes inthe current
institutional framework for recruitment and management of civil servants. Equally, it will demand
organizational changes in sector Ministries that deliver services such as health and education which will
have to play a more facilitative role to enable convergence and coordination. Monitoring and evaluation
systems will also have to be strengthenedacross ministries.


4.        STRATEGIC COMMUNICATIONS PROGRAM

Inorder to maintain support for the PRS, the Royal Proclamationand the 21-point program, a strategic
communications campaign will be undertaken to raise awareness of the benefits of economic reform
includingliberalizing factor markets and introducing increased private sector participation in all aspects
of the economy. A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize reforms, and to
the extent possible, build consensus around reform actions as a pro-active choice that will promote
economic development, improve service deliveryand increase opportunities for individuals.

The recently created Public Information Center and the PRSP Resource Center has been chosen as the
focus body to implement the strategic communications program. The country-wide effort to involve and
inform stakeholders of the reform processwill beginwith a detailed segmentation of the key stakeholders
and will result incustomized strategies to reach as much o f the population as possible especially those in
the rural areas. The mass communications strategy will consist of three interlinked parts; (i)      outsourced
public relations campaign to "sell the reform process", (ii)         two-way dialogue between government
representatives and reform stakeholders to inform and refine the reform process and (iii)tripartite
discussionsbetween government, employers and unions on the reformprocess.




                                                        35

5.       INTRODUCINGLABORMARKET FLEXIBILITY (Anideafor the ChallengeFund)

The Nepalese labor market i s the most rigid inthe region and labor issues are a key impediment to trade,
investment, economic growth and increased employment. This section outlines the key legislative
obstacles, current developments and suggestedrecommendations.

Key LegislativeObstacles

         Labor Act 1992: makes it very difficult to dismiss a worker with "permanent" status Le. those
         that have worked for more than 240 days ina business with over 10 employees. Although it only
         covers less than 2% of the workforce, the Act discourages businesses from becoming formal
         and/or growingbeyond 10workers.

         Trade Unions Act 1995: This Act effectively made the trade unions arms of the political parties
         affecting the way they havebehavedusingpolitically motivatedstrikes and closuresrecklessly.

         Exit legislation: There is no effective exit legislation and closing large failing ventures requires
         the permission of the Department of Labor. This process means that businesses are unable to
         restructure easily and the public sector is often called into take-over sick industries.

         The Bonus Act 1971: This Act mandates employers to share 10% of their profits with their
         employees. Inpractice, non transparent accountingpractices have ledto disputes with labor and
         employees insistence on being paid a generous bonus regardless of the firm's performance. This
         system whereby resources are siphoned off from the most productive enterprises to the least
         productiveis clearly anobstacle to improvedproductivity.

Inaddition to these key Acts, there are severalother Acts that deter investors. The Labor Court Act that
makes dispute resolution time-consuming and expensive. Rigid laws prevent workers from being
transferredor being paid piece-ratesto improve productivity. Mandatedannual increments also prevent
incentives for productivity. Given these labor laws, it is no surprise that many employers chose to flout
the statutes invarious ways e.g. refusing to grant a letter of appointment, not outlining the conditions of
employment, or choosingto employ foreign workers.

RecentDevelopments: Tripartite discussionsare ongoing between employers, government and the TUs.
These discussions are brokered by the L O . The discussions have focused on seven key issues; Labor
Law Flexibility, Exit policy, Gender, Social Security, Collective Bargaining, Labor administration, and
the Informal sector. The first two items were suggested by the employers and are discussed above. The
remainingfive itemswere suggested by labor.

Suggested Recommendationsfor TA Focus: Labor issues are potentially extremely volatile and need
to be tackled sensitively. Inthe short term, Government should continue to participate and facilitate tri-
partite discussions. Inthe medium-term, government must improve the legislative framework for labor to
make it suitable for a market economy including amending the acts mentioned above. Although final
agreements will have to be forged between all parties, some specific areas for change that the TA could
support include: (i)amending the Labor Act to allow for enterprises to dismiss workers with
compensation; (ii)   amending the Trade Union Act to make TUs independent from the influence of and
affiliation with political parties; (iii)enacting the proposed Insolvency Act and preparing additional
bankruptcy legislation to allow for greater ease of exit; and (iv) amending the Labor Act and the Bonus
Act to allow for performancerelatedpay.



                                                        36

                                    Annex 5: Project Costs
                           NEPAL: NepalEconomic ReformTA



Project Cost By Component andor Activity                    Local       Foreign       Total
                                                         U S $million U S $million U S $million

(i)Pre-identified TA                                         0.3          0.7          1.o
(ii)
   Challenge Fund                                            0.6          1.4          2.0




Total Baseline Cost                                          0.9          2.1          3.O
 Physical Contingencies
 Price Contingencies
                               Total Project Costs'          0.9          2.1          3.0
                        Interest during construction
                                       Front-endFee
                        Total FinancingRequired              0.9          2.1          3.0



'Project costs canbe on a gross basis inclusive of all taxes.




                                                37

                              Annex 6: ImplementationArrangements
                                NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA


Usingthe challengefund

The concept

The majority of the project funds will effectively be used as a pool of untied technical assistance funds
that can be flexibly allocated to reform initiatives once they have beenprepared, appraised and approved.
The challenge fund will allow the project to respond flexibly to a dynamic and developing agenda. It is
expected that all the relevant line ministries and public sector entities involved in the economic reform
process could potentially benefit from this pool of technical assistance resources. The project steering
committee with the help of Bank counterparts will develop suitable criteria for project eligibility inorder
to maintain the focus and ensure the efficiency o f this economic reform technical assistance project.
Projects that meet the eligibility criteria will be appraised and approved and then funded on a first come
first served basis thereby ensuring that the project channels funds to the most proactive and successful
reform areas and creating competition betweenthe ministries.

The process for the operation of the fundwould be drawn up by government counterparts responsible for
the project with the assistanceof Bank staff. The process would ensure that money was only allocated to
well-prepared project ideas that included suitable TORS,procurement timeline and was tied to
government's stated reform objectives as agreed with the IDA. Key milestones within the sub project
would be submitted that would allow the central project management unit to supervise and monitor the
sub-project going forward.

The establishment of the challenge fundwould beginwith the identificationand formal appointment of a
steering committee. It has been agreed that a senior official of NPC will chair the committee which will
include the Chief Secretary and the Secretaries of Finance and General Administration and the Financial
Comptroller General and the Joint Secretary o f the Poverty Monitoring Divisionwho will function as the
member-secretary o f the committee. The committee may nominate a specialist member from the civil
society to discuss on any sectoral specific matter or sub-projects. The relevant ministerial secretaries
would also be invited to attend sessions of particular relevance to their interests. The core committee will
be responsible for drafting suitable operational guidelines for the fund's operation that needs to be
reviewedand endorsedby the IDA.

The steering committee would start by formalizing the creation of the Economic Advisory Services Unit
(EASU) under the Poverty Monitoring Division, which will bethe main coordinationand implementation
unit. The Chief of the Poverty Monitoring Division will be the de facto Project Coordinator -who will
directly report to the Technical Assistance Steering Committee (TASC). The Project Coordinator will
also serve as the member-secretary to the committee, preparing and prioritizing requests received by the
committee, allocating resources as approved by the committee and accounting for the use of such funds
and preparingregular reports on the financial performance of the sub-projects financed by the fund.

Figure 1 indicates how such a challenge fund could be structured in Nepal. Requests from various
government entities including line ministries, PES, and other agencies would be sent to the project
steering committee. The steering committee would ensure that the requests for funding received met the
eligibility criteria and represented government's reform priorities. Requests that were approved by the
committee would then be developed into full proposals often through the use of a concept note (that




                                                      38

highlights thinking on a key reform area) accompanied by detailed terms of reference and budget
estimates. The proposalwould thenbe executed following the receiptof aWorld Bank no objection.


Figure1:PossibleChallengeFund Structure
              Proposed ERTA Management Structure


                                                Public     _._._._._._._._  Reform Ministries/
                                            Enterprises                        Agencies




                                        al PlanningCommission
                                    Economic Advisory Service Unit
                                        ect Coordination Office)




                                         Draft Sector Reform
                                           Concept Paper
                          --------------             --------------


                                        Steering Committee
                                               (TASC)




                            project                           u   Disapproved




       World Bank No-
         objection            +




Given the largenumber of requests that can be expected, and given the fact that this could be sustained in
the government's system, the creation of the EASU will serve the purpose to coordinate the
implementationof TA activities. The Project Coordinator will be assistedby a full-time experiencedand
qualified team comprising of a Deputy Project Coordinator (second-class gazetted technical officer), a
financial officer and a procurement specialist. The Team will keep track of requests, approvals and
ensure that all the safeguard and procurementrequirements are met. The Unit would then be responsible
for managing the flow of resources to the project components, preparing detailed statements of
expenditure based on information receivedand approved consulting expenditures incurred against which
the Bank would release funds.



                                                      39

It is suggested that in order to ring-fence the TA and focus it on the reform agenda that the money is
allocatedonly to reform initiatives that fall within the four key PRS areas. Ifmore flexibility is required,
the TA could also earmark a small amount; say 10percentof the resources, for initiatives that do not fall
within this scopebut which nevertheless are still deemedimportantby government.




                                                      40

              Annex 7: FinancialManagementandDisbursementArrangements
                                NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA


CountryIssues

The Nepal Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA), jointly conducted by HMGNand IDA,
was completed in 2002. The assessment concluded that the failure to comply with the impressive legal
and regulatory fiduciary framework makes fiduciary risk in Nepal "High" by the standards of that
framework. Faithful implementationof the framework would have brought risks closer to good practices
found indeveloped countries. Fiduciary risk inNepal i s similar to that inmost developing countries.

The government has put in place a sound financial management system, with the introduction of a
computerized Integrated FinancialManagement Information System which connects 64 out of 75 districts
(of which, 57 are currently functional) are networked enabling to receive on-line expenditure reports. The
development budget was prioritized in 2002 (as part of a three year MTEF), and the number of
projects/programs was significantly reduced. Priority projects are required to prepare trimester work
plans with detailed output/physical achievement targets and expected results. Expenditure reporting and
fundreleaseprocedures are now linkedto performance for priorityprojects which will be extendedto all
other projects/activities. Information on budget allocations, expenditures and outputs are now published,
and made available to the public. A web portal for HMGNhas been created, with links to government
departmentswhich contain information on programs and activities.

Starting from FY2004, HMGN introduced new accounting codes and classifications departing from
regular and development budget, and classifying according to recurrent and capital budget, as per the
IMF's Government Financial Statistics.

Adequacy of FMarrangements

The creation of the EASUunder the Poverty MonitoringDivision inthe National Planning Commission
Secretariat has to be formalized to coordinate the implementation of TA activities. The EASUhas to be
appropriately staffed with the Joint Secretary o f the Poverty Monitoring Division as the Project
Coordinator supported by a full-time second-class gazetted technical officer to assist the Coordinator, a
full-time procurement specialist and a financial officer. The core Team should be supported by at least
two Assistants and a computer operator. Initially, the EASU may have to rely on national consultants to
develop the system in strengthening the Unit. The Procurement Specialist, in particular, due to scarce
resources within the govenunent, may have to be recruited from the market. The Financial Officer,
preferablya secondclass gazettedofficer, will have to be a competent and experienced individual familiar
with donor and government fund management procedures and capable of over sighting financial
managementunder various sub-projects. The EASUwill be the main administrative body o f the TASC to
provide necessary input for the TASC.        The formation o f the TASC has also to be appropriately
formalized. Underthe guidance of the TASC, the EASUwill have to preparethe Operational Guidelines
which should describe amongst others the operational modalities, entry eligibility criteria, guidelines for
preparing proposals for accessing challenge fund, monitoring mechanism, internal control mechanism,
audit arrangements and reporting arrangements. The World Bank will provide necessary guidance inthe
preparation o f the Guidelines. Provided that the EASUi s created to coordinate the project activities, the
Operational Guidelines are prepared and approved by the TASC, and finance and other technical staffs
are on board in the EASUon a full-time basis, the FM arrangements for the Project should be adequate
for project implementation.




                                                    41

RiskAnalysis

From the financial management perspective, the risk is high mainly because the project implementation
arrangements has yet to be set-up and the FM staff and other core staff are yet to be appointed for the
purpose of implementing the project. Action plan for mitigating the risk has been agreed, and the risk will
be high to medium and even to low as the agreed action plans are implemented. In order to mitigate the
risks, the implementing agency, the National Planning Commission Secretariat will be taking all necessary
steps to minimize the risks which include (a) formalization of the establishment of the EASU staffed with
qualified and experienced staff and/or consultants,        (b) formalization o f the creation of a permanent
Technical Assistance Steering Committee under the chairmanship of a senior NPC official, (b) preparation
and adoption of the Operational Guidelines, (c) training and workshop on the process, (d) institutionalizing
the accountability measures e.g.,       supervision and internal review mechanism,         performance audit
arrangementsby the Auditor General, arrangementsfor transparency of funds disbursedto the applicants and
their utilization, etc., and (e) improving the system as feedbacks are received and programs are implemented
on the ground.

The World Bank as the development partner will also intensivelyfocus on the implementationto ensure that
development objectives and fiduciary requirements are met. The EASU will strengthen its monitoring
capacity to monitor the accounts and performance of various applicants of the challenge fund, and will be
reflected inthe Operational Guidelines. Priority commitment of the government for economic reforms, high
level representation of the TA Steering Committee, replication of the process from other successful
countries, and priority focus on the reform program by the government and development partners are some
reasons that will also mitigate the risks. Learning from other country examples which include a possible
exposure visit in other countries implementing such a program by TASC members and EASU staff and
close supervision of the operations by the Bank are some other measures that will reduce the possible risks.
Adequate control, monitoring and safeguard measures will be part of the operation. In this respect, the
TASC will monitor proactively the implementation aspect of the program, and will take timely decisions to
sanction the requests for funds from the challenge fund.

Strengths

The proposed operation will have the following strengths in the area of financial management: (i)high a
level commitment o f the government to implement economic reform programs, (ii) formation of a high
                                                                                       the
level steering committee empowered to take necessary reform oriented decisions, (iii)the Project
Coordinator also to be the member-secretary o f the steering committee to bridge the coordination between
EASUand TASC, and (iv) the key staff of the EASUwill be appointed from amongst the available civil
servants network or recruited from the market based on qualifications and expertise for specialized function
such as, procurement.


Weakness and Resolution

The activities under the Challenge Fundare yet to be identified. The operational procedure for accessingthe
fund is also unclear. The EASUwill take a lead to establishing a system, which include the formulation of
Operational Guidelines. Expeditious placement of qualified and experienced staff and/or consultants i s
another priority area which requires immediate attention. Capacity buildingand training of staff will receive
priority attention. The NPC will include in its annual work program substantial effort in institutional
strengthening of the EASUto be able to manage and coordinate the TA activities. The EASUwill also be
equippedwith appropriate technology for information analysis and dissemination to monitor both technical
and financialprogress.



                                                      42

ProjectBudgeting

Project programming and budgeting will follow the government's budgeting system and chart of
accounts. The EASU will prepare the annual budget in accordance with the annual program and
implementationplan, and will be submittedto the TASC for approval. The budgetwill includedetails in
respect of the investments for various reform oriented programs, and budget for institutional
strengthening of the EASU. Following the approval of the proposedprogram and budget by the TASC,
the EASUwill submit its program and request for the budget to the Ministry of Finance (MOF). The
MOF reviews the request and endorses the budget submitted by the EASU. Following the budget
approval, the MOF releases authorization for spending. Expenditures will be monitored based on the
approvedprogram and budget, and reportedthrough the project progress reporting, designedin the form
of FinancialMonitoringReports(FMRs).

FundFlow Arrangements

HMGNreleases the budget to the Project as per the fundreleaseprocedureof HMGN. The funds for the
purpose of project implementationwill be operatedunder the joint signature of the Project Coordinator
and the Finance Officer. The budget approvedby HMGN will be indicatedin the government's budget
(Red Book) under a separate budget head in the name of the Economic Reform Technical Assistance
Project. Use of IDA resources is through the Foreign Exchange Account - the Special Account.          A
Special Account will be establishedto facilitate quick payments of various activities under the project.
Special Accounts funds are normally used for making direct payments and for transfer of funds to
HMGN's consolidated funds for pre-financed IDA'S share of expenditures.             Only IDA eligible
expenditures are transferred from the Special Accounts.         The program is expected to start from
FY2005/06that is, effective July 16, 2005. Retroactive financing will be made from this date. The fund
flow diagramat the central level is shownby the following diagram.

FinancialManagementStaffing

For the purpose of financial management, the EASU will be staffed by an experienced and competent
Finance Officer, preferably a second-class gazetted officer, supported initially by one Assistant. The
finance staff will be responsible to ensure that all project relatedpayments are timely made, supporting
documents are properly maintained, project financial transactions are appropriately accounted,
implementationprogress and financial progress are timely reported, and claims are timely submitted to
the World Bank.




                                                     43

                                PlanningandBudgetApproval Process


Technical


Committee
Steering          Reporting                Division, NPC

(TASC)




                                                                                                      .........


                                                                                                      ..........                   ProgradBudget
                                                                                                                 MOF              Inclusion inthe Red
                                                                                                                                         Book

                                                                                     4
                  ForeignExchange Account                                         ProjectBank
                      (SpecialAccount)                                             Account                      -      FundFlowi
                                                                                                                       Administrative Linkage




                                                                              FundFlow Process




          Ti  World Bank      ''''''_''




                                                                                         Economic                                             4
                                    \ ............................................       Advisory  -     Kathmandu
 ForeignExchange Account                                                               Service Unit           DTCO      '                   FCGO
     (Special Account)                                                                   (EASU)




  Transfer to
                                                                                                                    ...........Reporting/Cbordination
                                                                                                                    +und           Flow/ Administrative
                                                                                                                             Linkage




                                                                                  44

ProjectFinancialAccounting, ReportingandInternalControls

The Projectwill follow the government's cash basedaccountingsystem. Each individual transactionwill
be processed through a double entry accounting system, and all major items of sources anduses of funds
will be recorded. The chart of accounts consists of coding and classification of budgetary expenditures,
which corresponds with project expenditure categories. The EASU will maintain separate books of
accounts of program related expenditures and operational expenditures. All standard ledgers and asset
record will also be maintained. Adequate controls will be put inplace concerning the preparationand
approval of transactions. Accounts will be initially maintained in the computer spreadsheet system.
Disbursementsof funds for various activities under the Challenge Fundwill be based on specific outputs
defined by contractual arrangements. Monitoring system will enable to measure outputs of such sub-
projects. Outputs of each sub-project along with total expenditureswill be disclosed. The Operational
Guidelines will include a section of financial management to describe the arrangements for management
of funds disbursedunder the programwhich shouldincludearrangements for internal control, monitoring
and reporting. Recipients of funds from the TA will maintain accounts as per the Guidelines of the
EASU, and EASUwill arrange for periodic reviews of expenditures to ensure that funds are spent for
intendedpurpose. Any deficiencies identified during such reviewswould be timely corrected.

The EASU will produce from the outset the Financial Monitoring Reports (FMRs) showing the sources
anduses of funds, physical progressreport and procurementmanagement report informats to be agreed
upon during negotiations. To match the government planning and reporting cycle, the FMRs will be
producedon a trimesterbasisand submittedwithin 45 days from the end ofthe precedingtrimester.

InternalAudit

Internal audit will be carried out according to the government's prevailing arrangements. In order to
provide more comfort and for timely input, the EASU will, if required, also recruit a qualified
professional accountingor management firm for the purpose of the special review of the TA Accounts.
Such an arrangement will ensure to provide necessary input to improve control measures and overall
financial management of the TA funds. The review will focus in ensuring the financial accountability.
The review will also focus whether the intendedobjectivesof the sub-projectshave beenmet.

ExternalAudit

Annualproject financial statements, SOE schedule, and special account,statementwill be auditedby the
Auditor General, which is consideredacceptable by IDA for this purpose, and submitted to IDA within
six monthsafter the endo fthe fiscal year. Copy of such audit report will be submittedto IDAby January
15 of each fiscal year. A TOR acceptable to IDA was discussedand agreed with OAG.

Arrangement for performance audit will also be put inplace. Such audit will also be carried out by the
Auditor General in close consultation with the NPC and in the time frame that will be mutually agreed
betweenthe NPC and IDA, and will be at the discretionof the Auditor General. The performance audit
will examine the challenges encountered and tasks accomplished during the course of project
implementation.




                                                   45

The following audit reportswould be monitoredinthe Audit Report Compliance system (ARCS):


Implementing                                           Auditors             Audit DueDate
    Agency         Audit

NPC                ProjectFinancial            Office of the Auditor     6 months after the
                   StatementsiSOE              General(OAG)              endof fiscal year
                   StatementBpecial                                      (January 15th)
                   Accounts


FinancialManagementImprovementAction Plan

Action plansto implementthe projectactivities andto strengthenthe financial management capacity of
the EASUandare summarizedbelow:

                              TableD1: FinancialManagementAction Plans

                           Action                    Responsibility    CompletionDate
         1. Create the Economic Advisory                  NPC            June 15,2005
         Services Unit (EASU) to coordinatethe
         project activities.
         2. Formalizethe creationof a high level           NPC           June 15,2005
         TA SteeringCommitteeto be chaired by
         a senior official ofNPC.
         3. Staff the EASU(to be coordinatedby             NPC           June 30,2005
         the Joint Secretary ofthe Poverty
         Monitoring Division) with competent
         and qualifiedcore filltime staff which
         shouldincludea deputyproject
         coordinator (second-class gazetted
         technical officer), a FinanceOfficer, a
         ProcurementSpecialistand two
         Assistantsto be appointedhontracted.
        14. Preparethe OperationsGuidelines for I      TASCNPC       I   July 31,2005
         implementingTA Program.
         5. Providetraining basedon the                    NPC        lstTraining: August
         OperationsGuidelines to the agencies                               15,2005
         managingsub-projects.
         6 Prepareprogramandbudget for                 NPC/MOF           July 15,2005
         FY2005/06anddefine a separate
         identifiable budgetcode for Economic
         ReformTA Project.
         7. PrepareAnnual ProcurementPlan for         NPC/EASU           July 15,2005
         the first year that is, FY2005/06.




                                                   46

SupervisionPlan

Progress of project implementationwill be closely monitored by the EASU. The TASC and IDA will
have oversightroles inensuringthat project is implementedas per agreed framework. Since this is a new
initiative undertakingby NPC, IDA will closely supervise the implementationof the project. The EASU
will report the progress of the Project through a trimester report, the FinancialMonitoring Report (FMR).
The agreed action plan will be closely monitored to ensure appropriate actions are being implemented.
The key F M fiduciary work are (a) periodic visit at cost centers for ex-post reviews, and if any ineligible
expenditures are noted, report to the FMS for further remedialaction; (b) review audit reportsandprepare
summary of reports; and (c) participate in supervision missions and keep the Team and the EASU
informed of financial management issues or improvements.


Disbursement

Allocationof GrantProceeds(Table C)

DisbursementunderproposedGrant will be madeas indicatedinTable C,which indicates the percentage
of financing for different categoriesof expenditures of the project. It is expected that IDA funds will be
disbursedover aperiodof three years. The fiscal year disbursement estimate is provided earlier inPAD.
The ClosingDate of the Grant is June 30" 2008.



Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds

     ExpenditureCategory             AmountinUS $ Million                 FinancingPercentage
1. Goods underParts A-D of                      0.22                              100%
the Project
2. Consultants' Services                        0.36                              100%
under PartsA-Dofthe Project
3. Training, Study Tours,                       0.22                              100%
Workshopsunder Parts A-D
of the Project
4. IncrementalOperating                         0.05                              100%
Costs for the EASU
5. All Goods, Consultants'                      2.00                              100%
Services and Studies for Sub-
projects, Training and Study
Tours under Challenge Fund
(Part E of the Project)
Unallocated                                     1.50                              100%
Total ProjectCosts                              3.00                              100%


Disbursement Arranpements

Disbursements from IDA will be made in accordance with traditional disbursement procedures, which
include full documentation or statement of expenditure (SOE). To facilitate disbursements, Special
Accounts will be established. For large payments, exceeding the Special Accounts threshold, direct




                                                      47

payments will be made by IDA. For small payments, including the funds for training, study tours,
workshops and incremental operating costs, disbursementsfrom IDAwill beon areimbursement basis.

Use of Statement of Expenditures(SOEs)

IDA will allow disbursements under the SOE procedure for: (a) all sub-projects under the Challenge
Fund; (b) all training, study tours and workshops; (c) incremental operating costs; (d) for goods, costing
less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (e) for all contracts for services of consulting firms costing less
than $200,000 equivalent per contract; and (0 for all contracts for services of individual consultants
costing less than $25,000 equivalent per contract. Duringthe initial supervision by IDA, the missionwill
closely review the SOE claims to ensure that the funds are utilized for the intended purposes. Any
deviations noticed duringsuch reviews would be noted for remedy and improvements.

Specialaccount

A separate Special Account in U S Dollars may be established, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA.

The implementingagency will ensure that the bank/cashbooks are reconciledwith bank statements every
month. It will separately submit replenishment applications for the special account on a monthly basis, or
when 25 percent o f the authorized allocation has been used, whichever occurs first.           Replenishment
applications will be accompanied by reconciled statements from the bank in which the account is
maintained, showing all transactions in the special account.            Supporting documentation will be
maintained by respective cost centers for at least one fiscal year after the year in which the last
disbursement from the grant took place, and will be available to be reviewed by IDA staff, and
independent auditors.




                                                      48

                               Annex 8: Procurement Arrangements
                               NEPAL: Nepal Economic ReformTA

A. General
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with the procedures detailed in
the Regulations prepared by His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) based on the Procurement
Law that is expected to be enacted inJuly 2005. Till the enactment of this law, all procurement shall be
carried out in accordance with World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated May 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Legal Agreement. The various items
under different expenditure categories are described in general below. For each contract to be financed
by the Grant, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for pre-
qualification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed between the
Recipient and IDA in the Procurement Plan. The Procurement Plan will be updated at least every
trimester or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: The project will not fundany works procurement.

Procurement of Goods: Goods procuredunder this project would includevery small quantities of office
equipment such as computers and peripherals and office furniture for the Economic Advisory Service
Unit (EASU) established within the National Planning Commission Secretariat (NPCS) and may also
include some goods procurement under certain sub-projects financed under the challenge fund. Though
the nature of the latter cannot be identifiedat this time, almost all contracts are expected to be of small
and estimatedbelow US$25,000 equivalent and no contract expected to exceedUS$ 200,000 equivalent.

All contracts below US$ 10,000 shall be procured through shopping procedures. Contracts above US$
10,000 and up to US$ 200,000 shall be procured through NCB using the model bid documents for NCB
procurement of goods developed by HMGN or any other National SBD agreed with or satisfactory to
IDA.

Procurement of non-consulting services: None

Selection of Consultants:

a) Pre-Identified Component: This grant will primarily fund a large number of studies and consulting
assignments under the pre-identifiedcomponent. Except for the consultant contract for privatization of
three key public enterprises, the average estimated value o f assignments under this component i s expected
to be less than US$25,000 requiringonly the services of local or regional consultingfirms or individuals.
A detailed list ofthese assignments shall beprovided inthe procurement planto bepreparedby EASUby
July 15, 2005.

b) Challenge Fund Component: Due to the nature of this project, details of assignments under the
Challenge Fund component of this project cannot be identified at present. However, it i s expected that
most of these will consist of study/observation tours, studies, and training assignments.

Consultant selection shall be carried out in accordance with the procedures detailed in the HMGN
Procurement Regulations, or through IDAprocedures till these regulations come into force.




                                                     49

Operating Costs: These include costs of operation and maintenance of: facilities, vehicles and equipment
usedby EASU for project implementation; and payment for utilities, fuel for vehicles, office consumables
etc. These shall be procured inaccordance with prevalent HMGNprocedures which have beenreviewed
and found acceptable.

B. Assessment ofthe agency's capacityto implementprocurement

The NationalPlanningCommission Secretariat (NPCS) will bethe primary project implementingagency.
Within NPCS, it is proposed to set up an implementation cell (to be known as the Economic Advisory
ServicesUnit-EASU) to be ledby a senior civil servant as Project Coordinator who will be supportedby
a deputy project coordinator, one financial officer, and one procurement specialist as its key staff.

An assessment of the capacity of the NPCS to implement procurement actions for the project has been
carried out by Kiran RanjanBaral, Senior Procurement Specialist of the World Bank, on April 18, 2005.
The assessment reviewed the proposed organizational structure of EASU for implementing the project
and the interaction between the project's proposed Procurement Specialist and the National Planning
Commission's relevant central unit for administrationand finance. The findings are:

1.       Procurement activities will be carried out at two levels: a) at EASUlevel by EASUitself, and b)
at sub-project level by the concerned HMGN institutiodstate owned enterprise that receives support
under the challenge fund. At both levels, procurement shall be carried out in accordance with the
procedures detailed in the Regulations prepared by HMGN based on the Procurement Law that i s
expected to be enacted in July 2005. (Note: Till the enactment of this law, all procurement shall be
carried out in accordance with World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" dated May 2004; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" datedMay 2004).

2.       At EASU, the Procurement Specialist will have the responsibility o f not only carrying out all
EASU procurement, but also for advising recipient institutions on the procurement procedures to be
followed in the execution of any sub-project; ensuring that agreed procedures are followed, reviewing,
monitoring and troubleshooting such procurement; and preparing periodic reports for HMGN and the
Bank. To efficiently carry out these activities, the Procurement Specialist will not only need to be well
versed in HMGNprocurement procedures as detailed in the new Regulations, but will also need to have
some experience of having independently handled procurement in World Bank or other international
donor funded projects.

The ongoing Procurement Reform Project includes a component for training of public officials in
procurement procedures contained inHMGN's new Procurement Regulations. However, this training has
not beeninitiated to date. Consequently, public officials currently carrying out procurement functions are
not familiar with the new procedures or other internationallyacceptedprocedures.

To address these risks, the corrective measures which have beenagreed are:

 1.      NPCS will ensure that the Procurement Specialist to be assigned to EASU has sufficient
procurement knowledge and experience, satisfactory to the Bank, to discharge the job requirements. Ifan
individual with the required expertise is not immediately available from within other government
institutions, NPCS will hirean expert from the private sector.

2.       The Operational Guidelines to be prepared by EASUwill include detailed information on: The
procedures to be followed by government institutions in the execution of sub-projects, the applicable



                                                      50

standard bid documents, and how these SBDs are to be tailored for a specific procurement. The
Operational Guidelines will be reviewed and approved by the bank before start of any procurement
activity for the project.

3.       As and when required, EASU shall arrange training workshops, using the proceeds of the TA
grant, for HMG officials nominated as responsible for procurement in an approved sub-project. These
workshops will be designedto familiarize participants on the contents of the OperationalGuidelines and
on the specificprocurementproceduresthat would apply for their sub-projects.

4.       Members of the Bank's task teamwill closely monitor project's procurementprogress and advise
EASUfor early resolutionofprocurementissues.

The overallproject riskfor procurement is: High

C. ProcurementPlan

The Recipient shall develop, by July 15, 2005 a planfor procurementunder the pre-identified component
of the project including information on the type of procurement, its estimated cost, the related
procurement method and review requirements. This plan shall be available at the offices of NPC
Secretariat at Singha Durbar, Kathmandu It will also be available in the project's database and in the
                                           .
Bank's external website. This Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
every trimester or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and improvements in
institutional capacity.

D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision

Inadditionto the prior review supervisionto be carriedout from Bank offices, the capacityassessmentof
the Implementing Agency has recommended three supervision missions to visit the field to monitor
project procurementstatus andcarry out postreview of procurementactions.

E. Details of the Procurement Arrangements InvolvingInternationalCompetition

1. Goods, Works, andNonConsulting Services: None

(a)      All contractsfor goods estimatedaboveUS$200,000 equivalentshallbe subject to prior review
by the Bank.

2. Consulting Services

(a) List ofconsultingassignments with short-list of internationalfirms.

        1                2             3              4             5           6       7

    Ref. No.       Description of   Estimated     Selection      Review      Expected   Comments
                     Assignment        cost        Method        by Bank     Proposals
                                                                 (Prior I   Submission
                                                                   Post)       Date
  1               Privatization of  700,000      QCBS          Prior
                  three key
                  public
                  enterprises


                                                    51

(b) All Consultancycontractswith firms estimatedto cost aboveUS$200,000, single source
selectionof consultants (firms) for assignments estimatedto cost above $100,000 per contract
andcontractswith individual consultants estimatedover US$50,000 per contract will be subject
to prior review bythe Bank. Terms of Reference (TOR) and selectionof IndividualConsultants
below US$50,000 will be clearedwith the project team leader.

(c) Short lists composedentirely of national consultants: Short lists of consultants for services
estimatedto cost less than US$ 200,000 equivalent per contract may be composed entirely of
national consultants.




                                                52

                         Annex 9: EconomicandFinancialAnalysis
                            NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA


See Section D1.of the maintext.




                                           53

                               Annex 10: Safeguard Policy Issues
                             NEPAL: NepalEconomic ReformTA

See section D4-6 of the maintext.




                                              54

                        Annex 11: Project Preparation and Supervision
                             NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA


                                                     Planned                  Actual
PCNreview                                        December 2004           December 2004
Initial PID to PIC                                 January 2005            January 2005
Initial ISDS to PIC                                January 2005            January 2005
Appraisal                                           May 2005                April 2005
Negotiations                                         May 2005            May 18-19,2005
Board/RVPapproval                                 June 28th2005
Planneddate of effectiveness                      July 31" 2005
Planneddate of mid-termreview                    September 2007
Plannedclosing date                            December31" 2008

Key institutionsresponsiblefor preparationof the project:

National PlanningCommission, MinistryofFinance, Ministryof GeneralAdministration, Ministryof
Labor, andFinancialComptroller GeneralOffice.

Bank staff andconsultants who worked on the project included:

Name                                             Title                        Unit
IsmailRadwan                            Senior PSD Specialist               SASFP
SabinRaj Shrestha                    Financial Sector Specialist            SASFP
HassanZaman                               Senior Economist                  SASPR
RoshanBajracharya                         Senior Economist                  SASPR
Vikram Menon                           Public Sector Mgt. Spec.             SASPR
SaileshTiwari                             Research Analyst                  SASPR
BigyanPradhan                             Senior Fin. Mgt.                  SARFM
                                       Spec./OperationsOfficer
KiranRanjanBaral                     Senior ProcurementOfficer              s m s
Hiroko Imamura                             Senior Counsel                  LEGMS
Tirtha Rana                             Senior Health Specialist            SASHD
RajendraJoshi                        Senior EducationSpecialist             SASHD
TenzinNorbhu                             Senior ICT Specialist               CITPO
Sundarajan Gopalan                      Senior PHN Specialist               SASHD
MargaretMurray                           Office Administrator                SASFP
Lalima Maskey                              TeamAssistant                     SASFP


Bank funds expendedto date onprojectpreparation:
     1. Bank resources: US$43,000
     2. Trustfunds: US$O
     3. Total: US$43,000

EstimatedApproval and Supervisioncosts:
     1. Remainingcosts to approval: US$20,000
     2. Estimatedannual supervisioncost: $75,000



                                                   55

                       Annex 12: Documentsinthe ProjectFile
                        NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA


Nepal :Towards a governance sector reform strategy- InitialConceptNote March2005.

Departmentof Customs: Request for Technical Assistance, April 2005.




                                             56

                                            Annex 13: Statementof Loansand Credits
                                                NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA

                                                                                                                           Differencebetween
                                                                                                                           expectedandactual
                                                                  Original Amount inUS$ Millions                             disbursements

Project ID   FY     Purpose                                    IBRD        IDA      SF        GEF     Cancel.  Undisb.    Orig.    Frm. Rev'd

PO74633     2005    Educationfor All Project                      0.00     50.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     46.02     -4.04       0.00
PO40613     2005    NepalHealthSector ProgramProject              0.00      10.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     52.40      0.00       0.00
PO84219     2004    NP Fin Sector Restructuring(Phase11)          0.00     68.50     0.00      0.00     0.00     35.04     10.28       0.00
PO81968      2004   Poverty Alleviation Fund                      0.00      0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00     14.82      0.00       0.00
PO71285      2004   RuralWater Supply & SanitationProject         0.00     25.30     0.00      0.00     0.00     24.90      0.67       0.00
PO71291      2003   NP FinancialSectorTechnical Assistance        0.00      16.00    0.00      0.00     0.00     11.59      -6.98      0.00
PO43311      2003   POWER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                     0.00      50.40    0.00      0.00     0.00     79.77     12.65       0.57
PO82646      2003   Community School Support Project              0.00      5.00     0.00      0.00     0.00      3.91      0.76        0.00
PO50671      2002   NP: TelecommunicationsSector Reform           0.00      22.56    0.00      0.00     0.00     19.11      11.85       3.99
PO45052      2000   ROAD MAINTENANCE AND                          0.00      54.50    0.00      0.00     0.00     27.22     44.93        1.65
                    DEVELOPMENT
                                                        Total:    0.00    302.26     0.00      0.00     0.00    314.78     70.12        6.21




                                                                    NEPAL
                                                          STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                                       HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                                          InMillions ofUS Dollars


                                                                   Committed                                 Disbursed

                                                                 IFC                                        IFC

         FY Approval   Company                        Loan      Equity       Quasi    Partic.   Loan       Equity      Quasi     Partic

         1996198       BhoteKoshi                     2.07        0.00         0.00     0.00       2.07      0.00      0.00        0.00
         1994          Himal Power                    21.47       0.00         2.92     0.00      21.47      0.00       2.92       0.00
         2001          ILFC - Nepal                   0.00        0.30         0.00     0.00       0.00      0.30       0.00       0.00
         1998          Jomsom Resort                  4.00        0.00         0.00     0.00       4.00      0.00       0.00       0.00

                                     Total portfolio:  27.54       0.30        2.92     0.00      27.54      0.30       2.92       0.00




                                                                                 ApprovalsPending Commitment

                        FY Approval       Company                            Loan       Equity      Quasi       Partic.




                                                Totalpendingcommitment:       0.00      0.00         0.00        0.00




                                                                        57

                                                 Annex 14: Countryat a Glance
                                             NEPAL: NepalEconomicReformTA

POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             South    LOW-
                                                       Nepal    Asia  income     Development diamond'
2003
Population, mid-year(millions)                           24.7    1401    2,495                Lifeexpectancy
GNIpercapita (Atlas method,US$)                          240     460      430
GNI(Atlas method, US$ billions)                           5.9    638     1070                        -

Average annual growth, 1997-03

Population(%)                                             2.3      18       1.9
Laborforce (%)                                            2.6     2.3      2.3   GNI

M o s t recent estimate (latest year available, 1997-03)                         per
                                                                                 capita
Poverty(%ofpopulationbelownationalPOvertyline)
Urbanpopulation (%of totalpopulation)                       15    28        31
Lifeexpectancyatbirth(years)                              60      63        59                       i
infant mortality (per /0001ive births)                    62       68       79
Childmalnutrition (%ofchildren under5)                    48       48       42        Access to improvedwater source
Access to animprovedwatersource (?%,ofpopulation)          88      84       76
lliiteracy(%ofpopulation age 159                           56      44       37
Gross primaryenrollment (%of school-age population)       a 2      95       94         ---Nepal
   Male                                                   0 0     n 3      no                   Low-incomegroup
   Female                                                  lt3     88       88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
                                                1983    1993    2002     2003
                                                                                 Economic ratios*
GDP (US$ billions)                                2.4     3.7     5.6      5.9
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                     8.6    22.6    24.1     25.8
Exportsof goods and services/GDP                  D.2    18.4     18.2     16.7                    Trade

Gross domestic savings/GDP l'                     8.5    P.2      0.5      13.7
Gross nationalsavings/GDP                         0.7     16.6   28.6     28.9                       T
Current account balance/GDP                       -7.4   -6.0     3.8       0.6  Domestic
Interestpayments/GDP                               0.2    0.8     0.5       0.5  savings                       Investment
Total debt/GDP                                    B.5    54.9    53.4      55.6
Total debt service/exports                         6.5    8.6     5.5       6.2                       i
Present value of debt/GDP                                        30.9
Present value of debt/exports                                    92.5                           Indebtedness
                                      1983-93 1993-03   2002    2003 2003-07
(averageannualgrowth)
GDP                                        5.1     4.4    -0.6     3.1      4.5          --Nepal

GDP percapita                              2.7     1.9    -2.8     0.8      1.6                  Lowincomegroup


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                1983    1993    2002     2o03    growth of investment and GDP ("A)       1
 (%of GDP)
Agriculture                                      60.3    42.2    40.7      40.6
 Industry                                         P.8    20.7     217      21.6
   Manufacturing                                   4.6     8.8     8.3      8.1
 Services                                         26.9    37.1   37.5      37.8

 Private consumption                              81.3   79.3    78.0      78.2
 Generalgovernmentconsumption                      n.1     8.5    a0        n3
 Imports of goods andservices                     21.3   28.8    288       288              ----GDI        -GDP


                                              1983-93 1993-03   2002     2003
 (averageannualgrowih)
Agriculture                                        3.4     3.3     2.2      2.5
 Industry                                          9.2     4.9    -2.8      2.3
   Manufacturing                                   n.1     4.3   -n.0       2.o
 Services                                          4.9     4.9     -17      3.2

 Private consumption
 Generalgovernmentconsumption
 Gross domestic investment
 Imports of goods and services




                                                                     58

                                                                                                                        Nepal

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003         Inflation (Oh)
Domestic prices                                                                                                                   c
(%change)
Consumerprices                            #.O     9.9     2.9     4.7
implicitGDP deflator                      P.3    1).8     3.4     4.5

Government finance
@of GDP,includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                           P.9     #.4       1          98   99       00        01     02
Current budget balance                            -8.6
                                                   14      13      3.0
Overallsurplus/deficit                           -9.0     -4.3    -1.6   I             -GDPdeflator           -CPI


TRADE
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003
(US$ millions)                                                                Export and import levels (US$ mill.)

Totalexports (fob)                         82    379      754    642         '.OOO T
  Food                                                     67      78
  Pukes                                                    98      55
  Manufactures                                            395     451
Total imports (cif)                       457    860     1,509   1,626
  Food                                             131     83      a1
  Fueland energy                                   84     200     256
  Capitalgoods                                    e 9     257     266

Exportpriceindex(t395=X)O)                                                            97  98     99         00  01   02     03

 Importpriceindex(t395=0OJ                                                                     Exports          mlrrports
Termsof trade(t395=00)

 BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                         1983   1993    2002    2003           Current account balance to GDP
 (US$ millions)                                                                                                            ( O h )


 Exportsof goods andservices               249    675    1,073    983          j T
 Importsof goods andservices               483   1,053   1,698   1,837
 Resourcebalance                          -233   -378     -625   -854

 Net income                                  P       8      -7      -8
 Net currenttransfers                       40     252     844     897

 Current account balance                   -81    -28      211      35

 Financingitems (net)                       137   380     -258      59
 Changesinnet reserves                      44    3 2       47     -94

 Memo:
 Reservesincludinggold (US$ millions)              571   1,055    l,B4
 Conversion rate (DEC,local/US$)           0.8   48.0     75.9    77.8


 EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                         1983   1993     2002   2003                                                               II
                                                                                                       ~~~~~




  (US$ millions)                                                                :omposition of 2003 debt (US$ mill.)
 Total debt outstandingand disbursed       453   2,oo    2,972   3,253
   IBRD                                      0       0       0        0                        F: 6 G:66
   IDA                                      I72   832     121)   1,388

 Total debt service                         20      69     n 2      113
   IBRD                                      0       0       0        0
                                                                                               -
   IDA                                       2       1)     28       31                                                B: 1.388

  Compositionof net resourceflows
   Officialgrants                            72     77       74     89
   Officialcreditors                         68    256       0      251
   Privatecreditors                           1     -1)      0                     D: 1,3
   Foreigndirect investment                  -1      0       -4      a0
   Portfolio equity                          0       0     -144    -I79                                         c: 11
                                                                                                                                   I
  World Bank program
   Commitments                               45       0      23      I41        A - IBRD                           E- Bilateral
   Disbursements                             31      69      34     0 2         B - IDA   D Other multilateral
                                                                                           -                       F Private
                                                                                                                    -
   Principalrepayments                        0       4      20      22         C-IMF                              G-Short-term




                                                              59


                               80E                                                               82E                                             84E                                        86E                                                 88E




                                                                     To
                                                                   Barga


                                                                                            Simikot
               30N

                                 To
                              Ranikhet          Mahakali   ALI                                                                                                                                                                    NEPAL                        30N


                                                     AK                                           H                                                         C H I N A
                                                                           Chainpur
                                       Baitadi     AH                                                  K A R N A L I
                                                                                                                 
                                                M                      S E TI                                 i
                                                                     Silgadhi
                                           Dandeldhura                                                   Jumla
                                                                                Karnali                                 m                    Mustan
                                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                                        Dunai

                                                                                         B H E RI                                  a
                                                                                                                                                Jomsom
                                                     Dhangarhi                  Birendranagar                                         ALAGIRI     l
                                                                                                                                    W                                                                    To

                                                                                                     Sallyan                            Kali      G A N D A KI                                         Xegar
                                                                                                                                                             a
                                                                                                                              DHA
                                                                                                                                Baglung             Pokhara
                                                                                                  Tulsipur                                                           y
               28N                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mt. Everest
                                                                                          Nepalganj        R A P TI
                                                                                                                                                                                   a                                        (8848 m)                            28N
                                                    To                                                                                                                                   Kodan
                      To                        Lucknow                                                                                                                 B A G M ATI                                     
                Shahajahanpur                                                                                                L U M B I N I                        Nuwakot                      s
                                                                                                                                                                                  KATHMANDU
                                                                                                                                       Butawal                                                                          THA
                                                                                          To                                                          Naryani       Lalitpur

                This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                            Bhairawa
                                                                                       Faizabad                                                                               Bhimphedi                                            Arun      M E C HI
                The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information                                                                                                                                                                 Taplejun
                shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                                                                    Hetauda                               Okhaldhunga
                Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                                                                                                                                                K O SI                        To
                endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                                                                                                    NARAYANI
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Saidpur
                                                                                                                                                                                     Sindhulimadi  Ramechhap


                                                                                                                     To                                                                 JANAKPUR
                                                                                                                  Faizabad                                              Birganj                                   SAGARMA                 Dhankuta

                                   NEPAL                    Lucknow                                                                                                                                                         SunKoshi              Ilam
                                                                                                                                                 To
                                                                                                                                              Faizabad                            Gaur                                                   Dharan
                                                                                                                  I N D I A                                                                    Janakpur

                                                                                                                                                                                                                Rajbiraj
                                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                      Kanpur                                                                                                                                                                                         Biratnagar

                                     ZONE CAPITALS                                                                                                                                       To
                                                                                                                                                                                        Baruni

                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                           To
                                                                                                                                                                             Faizabad              To
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baruni
                                     RIVERS                                                   26N                                                                                                                                                               26N

                                     MAIN ROADS                                                      0     25   50   75    100 Kilometers


SEPTEMBER                            RAILROADS
                                                                                                     0        25       50        75 Miles                                                                                                                             IBRD
                                     ZONE BOUNDARIES                                                                                                                                                                               To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Baruni                    To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Jangipur         33455
         2004                        INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES

                                                                                               82E                                                84E                                          86E                                                    88E

