Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1261 
Project Name 
Nepal Economic Reform TA 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P093294 
Borrower(s) 
NEPAL 
Implementing Agency 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Safeguard Classification 
[
]
S
1
[
]
S
2
[X] S
3
[
]
S
F
[
]
TBD (to be determined)
 
Date PID Prepared 
December 2, 2004 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
March 2nd, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 28, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
Introduction 
 
1. 
A new coalition government in Nepal, brings with it the possibility of restoring peace, stability and 
economic prosperity to the Kingdo
m.  While the new government’s priority is to restore peace, it is 
also committed to implementing a broad based program of economic reforms outlined in the 
government’s 10
th
 plan/PRSP.  The reforms are centered around creating a high-performing state that 
delivers public services efficiently and inclusively and supports broad-based economic growth.  
Implementing such a program is a vital ingredient for ending the current conflict and providing 
combatants with an economic stake in the country’s future. 
 
2. 
Important reforms have taken place over the last twenty-four months and are restoring the credibility 
of the Government. These reforms focus on improving the delivery of basic services complemented 
by far-reaching structural and governance reforms. Key reforms include: (i) revamping the 
expenditure management system to focus resources on priority development activities; (ii) handing 
over management of public schools and sub-health posts to local management committees; (iii) 
strengthening the legal power of the anti-corruption authority (which used this authority to file 
charges in high profile corruption cases); (iv) bringing the two largest loss-making commercial banks 
under external management teams; (v) increasing private sector participation in power and telecom 
with provisions for rural services; (vi) setting up an independent Roads Board to improve road 
maintenance; (vii) passing legislation that improved women’s legal rights to parental property and 
(viii) significantly reducing the number of civil service transfers. 
 
3. 
Strong technocratic, reform champions have emerged across government to consolidate these gains 
and push the agenda forward.  Reformers have now reached a critical mass and have a higher profile 
than in the past. The Bank has supported key reform elements through a Poverty Reduction Support 
Credit (PRSC) designed to provide fiscal space at this critical juncture in the reform process. 
Although budgetary support, provided by successive tranches of the PRSC, is supporting the reform 
process, it has not been able to expand the administration’s capacity to implement reforms.  Severely 
Page  2
constrained by limited capacity, the government is experiencing difficulty in furthering the reform 
process.    
 
4. 
Within this context, His Majesty’s Government of Nepal (HMGN) has expressed interest in a possible 
Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (ERTA) that would facilitate the implementation of 
the government’s economic reform program by providing additional resources to augment 
government capacity.   
 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
5. 
The Bank has already pledged its support to the ambitious, pro-poor reform agenda through PRSC I.  
Implementing many of these reforms requires a technical and managerial capacity that is scarce 
within government.  The Bank has done a considerable amount of work in each of the key PRS areas. 
 
6. 
The key elements of the reforms, once implemented would provide a sound foundation for medium 
term growth and stability and justifies full IDA support. Government's program is sufficiently well 
defined and formulated with strong commitment and ownership that justifies Bank support. 
 
7. 
Structural and policy based reforms are a key area of Bank comparative advantage.  The Bank has 
more headroom than any other donor to support such a program of Technical Assistance.  Moreover, 
capacity building, governance and service delivery along with the achievement of peace form the core 
of the Bank’s support for Nepal as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy.  By supporting 
Government’s key reform priorities, we would achieve a number of CAS and national development 
objectives including most importantly the desire to improve capacity building.  The CAS revealed 
that more than US$100 million is spent annually on ad hoc, ineffective and uncoordinated capacity 
building aid delivered by donor organizations. 
 
8.  The Bank can play a vital role providing additional resources to remove reform implementation 
constraints.  More importantly it can set up a vehicle and appropriate mechanism through which other 
donors can also channel their assistance.  This would effectively achieve donor coordination, relieve 
the reporting burden on government whilst also ensuring government leadership and ownership in the 
use of TA resources.  This would bring about an end to supply driven support and help to bring 
donors within a budget prioritization framework. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
9.  The objective of this project is to build government’s capacity to implement its stated reform 
program.  The TA resources would be focused on implementation and would seek to recruit and 
retain skilled nationals wherever possible thus truly building national capacity on a sustainable basis 
while also implementing key elements of government’s reform agenda. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
Providing Flexible TA Resources 
 
10. The Nepal Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (NERTA) should be structured to provide 
government with flexibility in building capacity.  This can be done in several forms; 
 
Page  3
(i) 
Hiring skilled professionals, often from the private sector, on a contract basis for extended 
periods of time to help support general ministerial capacity.  E.g. a long term advisor to a 
reform committee. 
(ii) 
Hiring consultants, either local or international to address key issues and transactions on a 
project basis.  E.g. consultants to privatize a state-owned enterprise. 
(iii) 
Study visits to learn relevant experience from other countries.  E.g. the recent visit of a senior 
Nepalese delegation to Sri Lanka to learn from the latter’s’ recent privatization experience. 
 
11. At the outset of a reform program some of the reform initiatives will be well-defined, while others are 
not foreseen.  In a country like Nepal, it is likely that unforeseen circumstances may mean that 
government is unwilling or unable to implement reforms that at the outset appeared promising.  On 
the other hand a window of opportunity may open for other reforms.  Successful ERTA projects have 
built in a large degree of flexibility to account for this situation.  At the outset any reform initiatives 
that can be identified are developed into detailed proposals complete with a short concept note, terms 
of reference for consultants and a detailed budget estimate.  These proposals are programmed into the 
project and will have funds pre-allocated to them at the project launch.  The areas we propose to 
cover during project preparation are covered below. 
 
Identifying Areas for Support 
 
12. The task team propose to cover the following areas during project preparation; 
 
·
State-owned enterprise reform
:
Restructuring and privatization of SOEs in Nepal has 
progressed slowly.  Heavy government intervention in the economy continues with SOEs 
representing a significant drain on the public purse.  The heaviest loss-makers are the state 
banks, RNAC, the utilities and large industrial sector enterprises.  Staff reductions and 
improved corporate governance is sorely needed. 
 
·
Privatization
:
There are indications that government may be interested in privatizing RNAC 
and Nepal Telecom Corporation.  The TA could provide for transactions advisers to support 
government through the due diligence, roadshow and sale stages. 
 
·
Legal and Judicial Reforms
:
The rule of law is vital to a vibrant economy.  DFID and 
DANIDA have been supporting this area largely through strengthening the CIAA 
 
·
Statistical Upgrading
:
Improved statistics will help to strengthen the evidence base for 
improved policy making as well as monitoring and implementation of development 
programs.  The TA could provide important support for National Accounts, Trade Statistics, 
and other statistical series. 
 
·
Civil Service Reform:  
Although Nepal’s civil service is not overstaffed by some measures, it 
suffers from poor incentives, fragmented decision-making, large numbers at the lower levels, 
and inflexible working practices.  Government has implemented a comprehensive Human 
Resource database, established an affirmative action program, improved procurement and 
taken important anti-corruption measures.  Possible TA support will complement existing 
support provided by ADB. 
 
·
Tax Administration Reform:  
This is a key cornerstone of improved fiscal management.  The 
IMF are not able to devote sufficient resources to make significant improvements in this area. 
 
Page  4
·
Labor Reforms:
 Nepal has one of the most restrictive set of labor practices in the world.  
Businesses have identified labor regulations as a major constraint.  Important labor reforms 
are a key trigger for the PRSC.  The TA could support this process. 
 
13. 
In each area, the team will assess demand for assistance and government’s future plans.  Promising 
areas will be developed through clear concept notes and actionable TORs tied to appropriate budgets. 
 
14. Once appraised, well prepared TA requests will form the core of the project.  We aim to appraise 
about US$1 million of TA requests during preparation.  The remainder of the project resources will 
then be placed into a pool of unallocated resources, the “challenge fund”. 
 
4.  Safeguard policies that might apply 
N/A
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY 
3 
 Total 
3 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Ismail Radwan 
Title: Senior Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: (202) 473-3547 
Fax: (202) 522 1145 
Email: iradwan@worldbank.org
 
