Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1524 
Project Name 
Nepal Economic Reform TA 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
General public administration sector (100%) 
Project ID 
P093294 
Borrower(s) 
NEPAL 
Implementing Agency 
National Planning Commission 
Address: Singha Durbar, Kathmandu, Nepal 
Tel: +977 1- 228107 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[
]
B
[X] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
April 4, 2005 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
April 20
th
,
2005
Date of Board Approval 
June 28, 2005 
1.  Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
Nepal’s recent history is marred by political instability and violence.  
With per capita GDP of 
around $250, Nepal remains one of the poorest countries in the world. Difficult geography, high 
ethno-linguistic fractionalization and low endowments of physical and human capital that Nepal had 
to tackle with when it started concerted efforts towards development in the 1960s, remain 
significantly relevant challenges today. Liberal economic policies were met with significant gains, but 
the gains -in the form of increased private investments and accelerated economic growth- did not 
accrue equitably across all segments of a diverse population. Persistent poverty coupled with 
widespread political neglect 
–
particularly in the mid and far western regions of the country – sparked 
a
violent Maoist uprising which has developed into a nationwide insurgency that has to date claimed 
more than 11,000 lives.  
 
2. 
Improved service delivery, promoting social inclusion and reducing corruption are the keys to 
peace and prosperity.  
In late January 2003, a cease-fire was agreed upon by His Majesty’s 
Government of Nepal (HMGN) and the insurgents. Though the cease-fire ended in August 2003 and 
the conflict has continued, key policymakers in Nepal were acutely aware of the need to make public 
services and economic growth more inclusive in order to arrive at lasting peace. This awareness is 
reflected in Nepal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS) and has formed the foundation for a strong 
internal pressure to reform. Nepal’s PRS has four broad pillars, namely:  
 
(i) 
generating equitable and broad based growth;  
(ii) 
improving service delivery;  
(iii) 
promoting social inclusion; and 
(iv) improving 
governance. 
 
 
3. 
Important technocratic reforms have taken place despite considerable political uncertainty
.
During a period of continued political uncertainty, a broad coalition of reformers emerged comprising 
technocrats, intellectuals, business leaders, and civil society representatives who pushed forward the 
change agenda.  The poverty reduction strategy, a product of wide national participation, gave these 
Page  2
reform leaders a platform from which to operate. The reforms of the past three years focused on 
improving the delivery of basic services complemented by far-reaching structural and governance 
reforms. Key reforms included: (i) revamping the expenditure management system to focus resources 
on priority development activities; (ii) handing over management of public schools and sub-health 
posts to local management committees; (iii) strengthening the legal power of the anti-corruption 
authority (which used this authority to file charges in high profile corruption cases); (iv) bringing the 
two largest loss-making commercial banks under external management teams; (v) increasing private 
sector participation in power and telecom with provisions for rural services; (vi) setting up an 
independent Roads Board to improve road maintenance; (vii) passing legislation that improved 
women’s legal rights to parental property and (viii) significantly reducing the number of civil service 
transfers.  In order to support reform initiatives, the World Bank approved the first Poverty Reduction 
Support Credit (PRSC I) in November 2003. 
 
4. 
A
unique political challenge remains to continued economic reform.
 
The political situation in 
Nepal has changed drastically since October 2002, when the government was dismissed by the King.  
Three different prime ministers presided over the implementation of the reforms under PRSC I, and 
most recently, on February 1, 2005 King Gyanendra took over executive powers, imposed a state of 
emergency and made restoration of peace his highest priority. 
 
5. 
An ongoing commitment to reform exists across the new government.  
The new council of 
ministers formed under the chairmanship of the King has made a clear commitment to continuing, 
and even accelerating reforms and although too early to say definitively, the risk of crowding out of 
key reform champions seems low. Most of the reform-minded, high-level officials have been retained 
and additional reformers promoted to key positions.  On the contrary, considering the high stakes 
involved, the King is reportedly taking a personal interest in the performance of key reforms 
particularly in the areas of improving service delivery and rooting out corruption.  
 
6. 
The reform agenda will continue to focus on good governance and economic growth.  
The first 
Cabinet meeting produced a 21- point program which is broadly consistent with the spirit of PRS and 
articulates in detail the areas of immediate priority. The program includes measures to combat 
corruption, including the creation of a Royal Commission to Combat Corruption (RCCC), measures 
to improve service delivery including an enhanced monitoring and inspection regime and a populist 
program of measures for the rural poor including the creation of a land bank to distribute land to 
squatters and landless peasants, and support for irrigation schemes and cottage industries.  The 
Cabinet also endorsed reforms in public sector management, decentralization and outlined a program 
of affirmative action for the civil service.  The program also includes measures to neutralize the rebel 
movement including a special development program for the Karnali region, employment creation 
measures and an amnesty for ex-combatants that are willing to eschew violence. 
 
7. 
Rapid implementation of a sound program of economic reform is a vital ingredient for ending 
the current conflict and providing combatants with an economic stake in the country’s future
.
Although budgetary support, provided by successive tranches of the PRSC, is able to expand the 
fiscal resources to back the reform process, it has not been able to expand the administration’s 
capacity to implement reforms.  Severely constrained by limited capacity, the government is 
experiencing difficulty in accelerating the reform process.   Within this context, HMGN has 
expressed interest in a possible Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (ERTA) that would 
facilitate the implementation of the economic reform program by providing additional resources to 
augment public sector capacity.   
 
Page  3
2. Objectives 
 
8. 
The long term objective of the program is to support the implementation of key short term measures 
of the reform agenda as embodied in the Royal Proclamation, the 21-point program, and the PRS.  As 
explained above, there is broad consistency between the new government’s economic management 
program and the reform programs of the previous governments (including the PRS and the reforms 
supported by the Bank’s first PRSC). 
 
9. 
The proposed ERTA project will strengthen public sector capacity to implement the economic reform 
agenda.  This will be achieved by funding priority technical assistance that will provide the executive 
capacity required to implement the reform agenda.  The implementation of economic reforms will 
improve service delivery, public sector management, increase inclusion and reduce public sector 
intervention in the economy, putting the country on a higher growth path.     
 
10. The project will be outcome driven; with a focus on implementation, it will avoid funding studies and 
undertaking policy analysis, wherever possible.  In many areas of the economy such as civil service 
reform, privatization and labor regulation, large amounts of technical assistance have been disbursed 
by several donors with disappointing results.  The detailed outcome indicators for this project are 
included in Annex 3. 
 
11. The immediate recipients of the project funds will be reform-minded public sector agencies that will 
be able to design and implement better selected reform measures that will improve economic 
management.  The central focus of these reforms is to improve governance and pro-poor service 
delivery.   
 
12. Indirectly, the people of Nepal will be the major beneficiaries of the reform process.  The reforms will 
promote transparency, reduce corruption, improve public sector management, reduce the losses of 
public enterprises (PEs) and improve labor market flexibility.  Taken together these measures will 
ensure that public sector finances that are currently wasted on inefficient subsidies can be channeled 
to more appropriate areas, e.g. increased spending on social priorities.   
 
13. Ending wasteful subsidies to state-run utility companies implies introducing and maintaining tariff 
increases that cover the costs of production.  Studies in Nepal and other countries suggest that such 
price increases will not hurt the poor whose typical consumption basked is not highly dependent on 
electricity or petroleum products.  Likewise tariff increases in urban water supply and sewerage will 
not affect the very poor as they currently have limited access to such services.  In the medium term, 
ending subsidies to infrastructure services will ensure that government has the ability to expand the 
reach of these services while at the same time devoting more resources to the poor. 
 
14. Such reforms are all likely to come at the cost of public servants and the urban populations that have 
enjoyed access to subsidized goods and services.  Many such workers are heavily unionized and 
wield considerable political power and therefore integrating them into the reform process and 
engendering their buy-in to the reform process will present an enormous challenge for the present 
government. However, in the long term, even these groups of reform opponents stand to gain from the 
reform process as scarce economic resources are allowed to follow market price signals leading to 
greater efficiency and productivity. 
 
15. The proposed grant will support all four pillars of the government’s PRSP including growth 
governance, improved service delivery and social inclusion.  In these areas the TA is envisaged to 
provide financial resources to support; passing of the Governance and Civil Service Reform Acts, 
Page  4
improved monitoring and evaluation of statistics (especially the MDG related statistics), and greater 
private sector participation in the economy.  If the reform program is implemented successfully, it 
could also contribute to increased confidence in the current government’s ability and authority to 
negotiate a peaceful settlement to the ongoing conflict. 
 
16. The objective of this project is to build government’s capacity to implement its stated economic 
reform program.  The TA resources would be used in an outcome driven manner and focused on 
implementation.  The project would seek to recruit and retain skilled nationals wherever possible thus 
truly building national capacity on a sustainable basis while also implementing key elements of 
government’s reform agenda. 
 
3.  Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
17. 
T
he proposed ERTA will provide continuity to the Bank’s ongoing program of support to 
Nepal.  
The Bank has been supporting Nepal’s economic reform program for a number of years.  
Most recently through the first of a series of Poverty Reduction Support Credits (PRSCs).  The first 
PRSC was approved by the board in November 2003.  A second PRSC was under consideration for 
fiscal year 2005.  As key reform actions were not completed within the agreed timeframe, possible 
processing of the PRSC II was suspended, although discussions are ongoing and a PRSC II remains a 
possibility for fiscal year 2006.  As such the Bank remains deeply involved in development policy 
dialogue and providing ongoing assistance in sector dialogues.  The proposed ERTA project will help 
ensure that this ongoing sector dialogue is translated into tangible reforms. In all reform areas, the 
proposed project will support existing initiatives.  Rather than driving the process from the center it 
will create a hub that can provide additional human and financial resources to facilitate ongoing 
sectoral reforms. 
 
18. 
The public sector lacks the technical capacity to implement a broad economic reform agenda. 
Development policy lending is often accompanied by ambitious reform targets and while there is 
commitment in principle to achieving reform targets, in practice capacity to implement the program is 
lacking.  The proposed ERTA project could provide funds that would be used to support capacity to 
implement the program.  This can help overcome otherwise debilitating constraints within the public 
sector e.g. limited human resources, limited specialist skills, lack of equipment, limited exposure to 
international best practice etc. 
 
19. 
Structural and policy based reforms are a key area of Bank comparative advantage
.
Capacity 
building, governance and service delivery along with the achievement of peace form the core of the 
Bank’s support for Nepal as outlined in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS).  By supporting 
Nepal’s key reform priorities, the Bank would achieve a number of CAS and national development 
objectives.  Such support would come at a critical juncture in Nepal’s history when there is a need to 
accelerate and deepen reforms despite a more difficult political and security environment. 
 
20. 
The Bank can help HMGN to further its donor harmonization efforts
.
More important than 
providing additional resources, the Bank can use this project as a vehicle to establish an appropriate 
mechanism through which HMGN can ask other donors to also channel their assistance.  The CAS 
revealed that substantial resources are spent annually on capacity building activities which often have 
disappointing outcomes.  Establishing a broad pool of untied Technical Assistance (TA) funds and 
encouraging other donors to contribute would effectively achieve donor coordination; relieve the 
reporting burden on government and also ensure government leadership and ownership in the use of 
Page  5
TA resources.  This could bring about an end to supply driven support and help to bring donors 
within a budget prioritization framework. 
 
21. The key elements of the reforms, once implemented would provide strong and sound foundation for 
medium term growth and stability. Furthermore, the reform program is sufficiently well defined and 
formulated with strong commitment and ownership. 
 
4. Description 
 
Providing Flexible TA Resources 
 
22. The Nepal Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (NERTA) should be structured to provide 
flexibility in sourcing and building capacity.  This can be done in several forms; 
 
(i) 
Hiring skilled professionals, often from the private sector, on a contract basis for extended 
periods of time to help support general ministerial capacity.  E.g. a long term advisor to a 
reform committee. 
(ii) 
Hiring consultants, either local or international to address key issues and transactions on a 
project basis.  E.g. transactions advisers to divest a state-owned enterprise. 
(iii) 
Training and exposure visits to learn relevant experience from other countries.  E.g. the recent 
visit of a senior Nepalese delegation to Sri
 Lanka to learn from the latter’s recent 
privatization experience. 
 
23. At the outset of a reform program, some of the reform initiatives will be well-defined, while others 
are not as well defined.  In a country like Nepal, it is not unreasonable to expect that the development 
of unforeseen circumstances during the project implementation period may mean that government is 
unwilling or unable to implement reforms that at the outset appeared promising.  On the other hand a 
window of opportunity may open for other reforms.  Successful reform initiatives are often 
opportunistic in nature and the proposed ERTA project has built in a large degree of flexibility to 
reflect this.   
 
24. At the outset only a few areas have been defined where reform initiatives are relatively well 
developed complete with a short concept note, terms of reference for consultants and budget 
estimates.  These proposals are programmed into the project and will have funds pre-allocated to 
them at the project launch (see below).  The remainder of the project resources will then be placed 
into a pool of unallocated resources, the “challenge fund”. 
 
Identified Priority Areas for Support 
 
25. During the preparation and appraisal meetings, Bank support was requested in the following areas; (i) 
improving governance and public sector management; (ii) accelerating privatization; (iii) improving 
service delivery; and (iv) implementing a strategic communications program.  A brief overview of 
support in each of these areas is presented below.  It is proposed that these areas form the areas of 
pre-identified technical assistance while the remainder of the resources is placed in a challenge fund 
(see below). 
 
I
Improving Governance and Public Sector Management   
Page  6
26. Improving governance is an urgent priority and it receives prominent billing in both the Royal 
Proclamation and the 21-point program.  A number of changes at the policy and legislative levels as 
well as at the structural and operational levels are needed.  Several donors have been working in this 
area including Asian Development Bank (ADB), the UK Department for International Development 
(DFID) and Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA).  Much of the analysis and 
groundwork has therefore been completed.  The Ministry of General Administration (MOGA) is led 
by a strongly reform-minded leadership.  Within this context it is suggested that the project focuses 
on the following areas; 
 
·
Improved Governance
:
In the short term, there is a desire to strengthen the policy and 
legislative framework by passing the Governance Act which establishes and demarcates the 
roles and responsibilities of the political and bureaucratic arms of the executive branch of 
government.  The Civil Service Act amendments also under consideration will set the 
legislative framework for a professional civil service and establish the principle of affirmative 
action within the civil service that will in turn support increased social inclusion.  In the 
medium term an umbrella public management law is being prepared to create an integrated 
civil service that is focused on service delivery. 
 
·
Civil Service Reform:  
Although Nepal’s civil service is not overstaffed by some measures, it 
suffers from poor incentives, fragmented decision-making, large numbers at the lower levels, 
and inflexible working practices. In addition to the policy and legislative improvements 
outlined above, improvements at the structural and operational levels are also needed. 
Immediate priorities for government action include addressing issues around human resource 
management and development within the civil service including wage decompression, health 
insurance, a contributory pension scheme and an effective promotion and transfer policy  
Expanding the inclusiveness of the civil service through  effectively targeting minorities 
through a program of affirmative action remains an important priority.  In the medium term, a 
potential Voluntary Retrenchment Scheme (VRS) will be considered to allow redeployment 
of central staff to the regions as part of the decentralization program. 
 
·
Public Expenditure Management:  
Addressing growing concern over the limited impact of 
public expenditures on improved service delivery, governance and accountability, HMGN 
introduced an improved public expenditure management process – the Medium Term 
Expenditure Framework (MTEF).  By prioritizing public expenditures, aligning policies and 
spending priorities, focusing on an Immediate Action Plan (IAP), reducing budget transfers 
and increasing capacity, government has improved fiscal discipline and improved the 
budget’s pro-poor impact.  Notwithstanding this impressive progress, the MTEF process still 
needs to be broadened and deepened across the public sector and additional measures are 
needed including; donor harmonization, increasing institutional capacity, and improving the 
alignment of plans to budgets.  This will require a concerted effort on technical and change 
management procedures that could be supported through the TA. 
 
·
Systems improvements:
 
A
comprehensive Human Resource database within MOGA has been 
implemented.  Rolling out this database and Management Information System (MIS) across 
central government and then to the districts will be a priority for TA support. The 
establishment of a modernized records and file management system and performance and 
grievance management systems in line departments could be supported by the TA. 
 
Page  7
·
Combating corruption
:
Procurement practices have been improved several important anti-
corruption measures have been taken.  Work is on going to harmonizing procurement 
legislation with international practices.  A new procurement law will be promulgated by the 
end of this fiscal year.  Continued support to implement the law and enhance procurement 
capacity within the country will be required.   Donors have supported the strengthening of the 
CIAA and more recently, the King has established a Royal Commission to Combat 
Corruption (RCCC). There is scope to further support and strengthen the institutional 
framework for tackling enforcement and a particular need to focus on prevention through 
analysis and reform of corruption prone processes in different sectors.  
 
·
Statistical Upgrading
:
Improved statistics will help to strengthen the evidence base for 
improved policy making as well as monitoring and implementation of development 
programs.  The TA could provide important support for National Accounts, Trade Statistics, 
and other statistical series.  Initial discussions with the Central Bureau of Statistics (CBS) 
indicated that internal capacity is weak and given limited resources the survey cycles and a 
large part of the program of CBS is driven by donor priorities.  CBS staff is in the process of 
preparing a detailed action program for TA support, based on the recently completed 
consolidated national statistical plan. 
 
·
Tax and Customs Administration Reform:  
This is a key cornerstone of improved fiscal 
management which is in need of additional resources.  The Department of Customs embarked 
upon a Three Year Custom Reform and Modernization Action Plan in FY 2003/04 to keep up 
with international norms and best practices. Potential areas of technical assistance include: 
establishing a customs training academy, developing human resources to meet WTO 
conditions, and computerization and automation of strategic customs offices.   
 
·
Improved Financial Accountability
:
In close collaboration with the World Bank and other 
development partners, government has carried out the Country Financial Accountability 
Assessment (CFAA) in 2002 and identified a number of actions to improve the country’s 
financial accountability structure.  While some of these actions have been or are being 
implemented, continued support will be required to make improvements in the financial 
accountability framework.  The steering committee is reviewing the action plan and will 
identify the priority areas, where further support may be required. 
 
II Accelerating 
Privatization 
 
 
27. Heavy public sector intervention in the economy continues with PEs representing a significant drain 
on the public purse. But restructuring and privatization of PEs in Nepal has progressed slowly.  The 
heaviest loss-makers are the state banks, Royal Nepal Airlines Corporation (RNAC), the utilities and 
large industrial sector enterprises.  Other donors have focused on streamlining the privatization 
process with little success.  Privatizations can still take decades to achieve and are sometimes 
reversed in the face of political pressures. 
Page  8
·
Privatization of key Public Enterprises
:
Rather than get involved in these smaller 
transactions, it is proposed that the TA focus its resources on potential support to the three 
most important entities RNAC, Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC) and Nepal 
Telecommunications (NT).  Government has indicated its interest in divestiture in each of 
these areas and progress in one or all of these areas would produce significant benefits for the 
country (see Annex 4). 
 
·
Creating an apex body for privatization
:
The privatization process is currently handled from 
a
small privatization cell within the Ministry of Finance (MOF).  Unfortunately this 
institutional setup results in weak capacity as the cell is unable to attract competent 
transactions advisers on government salaries.  Furthermore, the process of approvals is 
tremendously convoluted requiring a resort to Cabinet on no fewer than three separate 
occasions.  It is suggested that the TA support changes to the legislative and institutional 
framework including the creation of an apex body for privatization. 
 
III 
Improving service delivery 
 
28. Nepal has significantly improved child survival rates, reduced fertility rates and achieved gains in 
communicable disease control during the 1990s.  However, critical challenges remain, including a 
high maternal mortality rate of 539 per 100,000 live births and widespread malnutrition.  Weak 
institutional capacity, inadequate public financing and inefficient spending, limited coverage and poor 
service quality, poor value from private health spending and a difficult topography, all impact health 
service outcomes.  HMGN has developed a health sector strategy to address these issues.  The 
strategy includes decentralizing service delivery, introducing an Essential Health Care Package that 
focuses on reproductive health, child health, communicable disease control and improved outpatient 
services and public-private partnerships.   
 
29. Similarly in the education sector, Nepal is moving away from public sector delivery of school 
education to delivery by school management committees headed by local communities in partnership 
with support organizations and with technical and financial support from the public sector. This is a 
profound shift and to make this transition successful there is a need to develop new skills within the 
public sector, and build capacity of school management committees and support organizations.  Some 
suggested areas of TA support to improve service delivery include;  
 
·
Private Health Sector Assessment
:
to recommend appropriate public private partnership 
(PPP) models for the health sector.  The assessment would examine: a) health labor market; 
b) survey of private sector providers; c) views and perceptions of policy makers and 
stakeholders in both public and private sectors; d) survey of pharmaceutical companies and 
their impact on the health of poor and vulnerable populations; and e) review of past and 
existing PPP models e.g. contracting in/out specific health services, health facilities, social 
marketing and franchising models.   
 
·
Health Sector Legal Review
:
review and recommendation of regulatory provisions including: 
a)  review gaps in legal basis of health policies, reform programs and actions; b) existing 
legal provisions that facilitate/constrain service delivery including training and deployment of 
service providers (human resource); c) review gaps in environmental and occupational hazard 
aspects in health care; d) in existing  health system including decentralization; and e) 
regulation of private health care providers in terms of quality, standards, pricing and other 
practices that affect the poor.   
Page  9
·
Capacity Building for Community Management
:
The proposed TA could support capacity 
building of public sector officials, school management committees, including their Network - 
Community School National Network - and support organizations for the new mode of 
service delivery.  
 
·
Establishment of a new HIV/AIDS Trust
:
Development of the legal and institutional 
framework for this new autonomous entity including: (a) comprehensive assessment of the 
institutional capacity of all the organizations currently involved in HIV/AIDS activities 
(including public and private, non-profits and international partners); (b) developing suitable 
institutional options and associated costing implications; (c) staffing issues (public service 
rules, HR issues, pay-scales, etc.); and d) developing the legal framework. 
 
IV 
Implementing a strategic communications program 
 
30. In order to maintain support for the PRS, the Royal Proclamation and the 21-point program, a 
strategic communications campaign will be undertaken to raise awareness of the benefits of economic 
reform including liberalizing factor markets and introducing increased private sector participation in 
all aspects of the economy.  A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize 
reforms, and to the extent possible, build consensus around reform actions as a pro-active choice that 
will promote economic development, improve service delivery and increase opportunities for 
individuals.  
 
31. The recently created Public Information Center and the PRS Resource Center has been chosen as the 
focus body to implement the strategic communications program.  The country-wide effort to involve 
and inform stakeholders of the reform process will begin with a detailed segmentation of the key 
stakeholders and will result in customized strategies to reach as much of the population as possible 
especially those in the rural areas.  The mass communications strategy will consist of three interlinked 
parts; (i) outsourced public relations campaign to “sell the reform process”, (ii) two-way dialogue 
between public sector representatives and reform stakeholders to inform and refine the reform process 
and (iii) tripartite discussions between government, employers and unions on the reform process.   
 
32. A communications audit will assess the communications needs in relation to the political, social and 
cultural environment for the reform initiative.  It will also help to identify key clusters of stakeholders 
and gain insight into various concerns and roadblocks either real or potential.  The audit will help to 
determine which strategies are needed to build consensus, and the messages and ways to 
communicate effectively to these audiences.   
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA GRANT FOR POOREST COUNTRY 
3 
 Total 
3 
 
6. Implementation 
 
33. At the outset of the project no additional donor funding is foreseen.  However, the CAS revealed that 
Nepal receives substantial amounts of technical assistance that are often donor driven.  The financial 
Page  10
management arrangements will be structured to allow other donors to support the project later on.  It 
is hoped that a successful implementation of the first year of the program will encourage other donors 
to support this approach leading to greater public sector ownership of the reform program and 
improved donor harmonization. 
 
34. Initial discussions with donors indicate that DFID and ADB might be interesting to co-finance the TA 
structured in this way.  JICA officials indicated that at present they are not able to support projects 
with pooled funding.  Most other bi-laterals have suspended processing of new assistance programs to 
Nepal.  If this situation changes in the future, other donors could be approached for additional funding 
if necessary. 
 
35. Even if direct donor co-financing is not forthcoming, the project can capitalize on the financing of 
other donors by allowing government the resources and freedom to implement the findings of 
upstream analysis funded by other donors.  Knowing that this source of funding is available will also 
encourage other donors to support line ministries in developing requests for TA assistance. 
 
36. The project institutional arrangements will be based on three vital components; (i) A project steering 
committee; (ii) A project implementation unit, the Economic Advisory Services Unit; and (iii) the 
challenge fund.  All are highlighted below and described in more detail in Annex 6. 
 
37. 
The project steering committee:  
The primary implementation agency will be the National Planning 
Commission (NPC) and the key counterpart will be the Vice-Chairman of NPC.  A Technical 
Assistance Steering Committee (TASC) chaired by the Vice-Chairman NPC and including; the Chief 
Secretary, Secretary of Finance, Secretary of MOGA, the Financial Comptroller General, and a 
representative from civil society.  The TASC will take a decision on requests received for resources 
from the challenge fund.  The steering committee will also liaise with the relevant line ministries and 
public enterprises as required to implement the reform agenda and oversee the project coordination 
unit. 
 
38. 
The Economic Advisory Services Unit (EASU):  
A
dedicated project unit within the NPC has been 
created to oversee the project implementation and coordination.  The unit will be named the 
Economic Advisory Services Unit.  It is likely that the EASU will require an experienced project 
manager, and full-time financial and procurement managers. The unit would be responsible for 
managing the flow of resources to the project components, preparing detailed statements of 
expenditure based on information received and approved consulting expenditures incurred, against 
which the Bank would release funds. The unit would also be responsible for producing timely 
progress reports. Detailed reviews would be carried out during project supervision. 
 
39. 
The challenge fund:  
The challenge fund is a pool of untied resources that can flexibly allocated to 
reform initiatives once they have been prepared, appraised and approved.  In order to access resources 
from the challenge fund, reform agencies would have to submit a well-developed concept note to the 
steering committee through the Economic Advisory Services Unit.  It is agreed that the TA will be 
focused on implementation (rather than studies and planning exercises) of reforms wherever possible.  
Short, timely and well-focused studies will be considered only if they are needed to implement a 
specific strategy.  In order to protect the national interest, sectoral reforms under the proposed TA 
must be submitted for clearance to the steering committee. Proposals should take the form of a 
concept paper that spells out the reform implementation strategy and high level policy decisions.  The 
concept paper can be submitted to the Bank for comments and amendments prior to submission to 
TASC for approval. Within the parameters of the approved concept paper, flexibility will be given to 
proceed expeditiously. ToRs derived from the approved strategy paper need only be forwarded to the 
Bank by the EASU.  ToRs would not have to be referred to the steering committee once the overall 
Page  11
strategy had been approved. The Bank will provide support by reviewing and strengthening the ToRs 
upon request and ensuring that the suggested procurement procedures meet the national guidelines.  
 
7. Sustainability 
 
40. The project is not intended to be sustainable over the longer term.  It is designed to support and 
implement a number of high profile reform initiatives.  As such, all support is effectively being 
offered on a sunset clause basis.   
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
41. The Ban
k’s recent experience in channeling technical assistance to Nepal especially through the 
financial sector restructuring project and under PPIAF provides several lessons for the proposed 
project (see below).  Elsewhere in the region, the recent Bank TA operations in India, Sri Lanka 
(ERTA and Central Bank Restructuring Project) and Pakistan (Public Sector Capacity Building 
Project) provide several lessons for the proposed operation.  This section has also drawn valuable 
lessons from other donor TA support to Nepal including DFID support to the privatization process 
and ADB support to public administration reforms. 
 
42. 
Reform Timing and Management Capacity:  
One important lesson is that in rushing to fulfill IFI 
conditions, the government can be prone to over-commit itself.  Government often agrees to move on 
too many areas without realizing the technical and managerial capacity as well as the political capital 
that is required to deliver on these requests.  One mitigating factor is the creation of a reform unit 
within the ministry or a steering committee that is empowered to take hard decisions to move the 
reform process forward.  Several reform committees are already in place for various reform initiatives 
in Nepal.  The proposed ERTA project will follow this model with the creation of a dedicated steering 
committee.  Moreover, the TA will be flexible enough with a large amount of unallocated funding so 
that it can be directed to sectors that are able to progress with urgently needed reforms.  Government 
is not being asked to commit to deliver unrealistic reform targets in each and every sector; rather the 
project team is asking government to address reforms in a few areas and make progress where 
possible. 
 
43. 
Management Turnover:  
The last 18 months have witnessed three successive governments.  Each 
new government is accompanied by change at the political and technocratic levels.  Each new 
incumbent has to take time to familiarize himself with the key issues in the sector and chart a suitable 
course of action.  However, the new government has moved quickly in appointing reform-minded 
candidates in key positions throughout the administration and has demonstrated its political 
commitment to both implement the reform agenda and support reform-oriented civil servants and 
politicians. 
 
44. 
Government Commitment:  
The new government in Nepal has outlined an ambitious reform agenda 
for improved governance and pro-poor service delivery.  Past experience reveals that sustained 
political commitment to tackle the key reform issues, especially tariff increases and labor legislation, 
is difficult to achieve and has hindered economic growth and service delivery in Nepal.  Reforms in 
the petroleum, telecom and power sectors, as well as the privatization agenda have all moved slowly 
despite substantial resources being spent to support the process over the past few years.  The new 
Page  12
government is keen to implement its reform program within its current window of opportunity; short 
term measures are to be implemented within the first hundred days of emergency rule and medium 
term measures within three years of the King’s proclamation i.e. ostensibly until February 2008 when 
new elections will be held.  There are clear indications of political commitment from the highest 
levels of government, including the King himself.  
 
45. 
Using Private Sector Participation as a Panacea:  
In many instances reform agendas have failed as 
the underlying issues leading to the need for reform were not well-thought out.  Governments have 
often thought that introducing some form of private sector participation would be the answer to a 
myriad of problems in a particular sector.  However, the private sector responds to incentives just as 
the public sector does and unless these incentives are well aligned with government's reform 
objectives the resulting program can end in failure.  For instance, government still has a number of 
public service functions that it would like to see RNAC taking on post-privatization (loss-making 
transport services to the rural areas).  These issues need to be carefully thought through prior to 
privatization.     
 
46. 
Ineffective Project Monitoring:  
The state roads TA in India did not have adequate resources 
devoted to overall project monitoring.  For a project of this nature, it is essential to ensure that the 
required information for financial management is collected and that a check is kept on the extent to 
which funds are committed and disbursed.  To overcome this potential problem this project will start 
with the steering committee appointing a full time financial manager (see below). 
 
47. 
Clear Eligibility Criteria:  
The economic reform TA in Sri Lanka shows that clear identification of 
up-front eligibility criteria for access to TA funds, and in particular clear outputs from the TA, 
provides incentives for efficient usage of the resources.  This proposed operation highlights the need 
for strong borrower commitment and action plans to follow through on reforms identified as 
priorities.  The preparation team will seek to draft and agree on clear eligibility criteria and 
operational principles for the project at negotiations. 
 
48. 
Procurement Challenges:  
Delays often result from a lack of understanding of the different 
evaluation methods and the need to follow bureaucratic administrative procedures.  Support could be 
provided both from the World Bank procurement hub and the country office on procurement issues 
which for the smaller sub-projects will be handled by the project management unit within the 
National Planning Commission.  It is suggested that the project hires a full-time procurement manager 
to handle the procurement aspects centrally.  The other problem that Bank projects have experienced 
in Nepal is the unwillingness to procure “expensive” international consultants.  The project will 
ensure that expatriate Nepalis or national consultants are drawn on whenever possible.  Strong 
regional consultants can also bring good technical expertise at a reasonable cost.  International TA 
will be used when necessary and only when such expertise is not available locally.   
 
9.  Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
Page  13
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
/
GP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Cultural Property (
OPN 11.03
,
being revised as OP 4.11)
 
[
]
[X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OD 4.20
,
being revised as OP 4.10)
 
[
]
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
/
GP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
Nepal : Towards a governance sector reform strategy 
–
Initial Concept Note March 2005. 
 
Department of Customs:  Request for Technical Assistance, April 2005. 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Ismail Radwan 
Title: Private Sector Development Spec. 
Tel: +94 11 2448070 Ext 316 
Fax: + 94 11 2440357 
Email: iradwan@worldbank.org 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-5454 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  14
