Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  04/18/2005 
Report No.:  AC1447
1. Project Statistics  
 
Country:  Nepal 
Project ID:  P093294 
Project Name:  Nepal Economic Reform TA 
Task Team Leader:  Ismail Radwan 
Estimated Appraisal Date: February 8, 
2005 
Estimated Board Date: June 28, 2005 
Managing Unit:  SASFP 
Lending Instrument:  Technical Assistance 
Loan 
Sector:  General public administration sector (100%) 
Theme:  Other economic management (P);Infrastructure services for private sector 
development (S);State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (S);Other financial 
and private sector development (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
3.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
1. 
The objective of this project is to build government?s capacity to implement its 
stated reform program.  The TA resources would be focused on implementation and 
would seek to recruit and retain skilled nationals wherever possible thus truly building 
national capacity on a sustainable basis while also implementing key elements of 
government?s reform agenda.   
 
3. Project Description 
Providing Flexible TA Resources  
 
2. 
The Nepal Economic Reform Technical Assistance Project (NERTA) should be 
structured to provide government with flexibility in building capacity.  This can be done 
in several forms;  
 
(i) 
Hiring skilled professionals, often from the private sector, on a contract basis for 
extended periods of time to help support general ministerial capacity.  E.g. a long term 
advisor to a reform committee.  
Page  2
(ii) 
Hiring consultants, either local or international to address key issues and 
transactions on a project basis.  E.g. consultants to privatize a state-owned enterprise.  
 
(iii) 
Study visits to learn relevant experience from other countries.  E.g. the recent visit 
of a senior Nepalese delegation to Sri Lanka to learn from the latter?s? recent 
privatization experience.  
 
3. 
At the outset of a reform program some of the reform initiatives will be well-
defined, while others are not foreseen.  In a country like Nepal, it is not unreasonable to 
expect that the development of unforeseen circumstances during the project 
implementation period may mean that government is unwilling or unable to implement 
reforms that at the outset appeared promising. On the other hand a window of opportunity 
may open for other reforms.  Successful reform initiatives are often opportunistic in 
nature and the proposed ERTA project has built in a large degree of flexibility to reflect 
this.  
 
4. 
At the outset government has only identified a few areas where reform initiatives 
are relatively well developed complete with a short concept note, terms of reference for 
consultants and budget estimates.  These proposals are programmed into the project and 
will have funds pre-allocated to them at the project launch (see below).  The remainder of 
the project resources will then be placed into a pool of unallocated resources, the 
?challenge fund?.  
 
Government Identified Areas for Support  
 
5. 
During the preparation and appraisal meetings, government requested Bank 
support in the following areas; (i) improved governance and public sector management; 
(ii) accelerated privatization; (iii) improved service delivery; and (iv) implementing a 
strategic communications program.  A brief overview of support in each of these areas is 
presented below.  It is proposed that these areas form the areas of pre-identified technical 
assistance while the remainder of the resources is placed in a challenge fund (see below).  
 
Improved Governance and Public Sector Management  
 
6. 
Governance has become an urgent priority of the current administration and it 
receives prominent billing in both the Royal Proclamation and the 21 ?point program.  
Government wishes to make a number of changes at the policy and legislative levels as 
well as at the structural and operational levels.  Several donors have been working in this 
area including ADB, DFID and DANIDA.  Much of the analysis and groundwork has 
therefore been completed.  The secretary of MOGA is a committed reformer and is 
leading this program through his position as head of a high level royal committee. This 
component would include; passing of the Governance Act and the Civil Service Reform 
Act, improved public expenditure management with a focus on implementing the 
Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), systems improvements, combating 
corruption, and improved financial accountability.  
 
Accelerated Privatization  
Page  3
7. 
Heavy government intervention in the economy continues with PEs representing a 
significant drain on the public purse. But restructuring and privatization of PEs in Nepal 
has progressed slowly.  The heaviest loss-makers are the state banks, Royal Nepal 
Airlines Corporation (RNAC), the utilities and large industrial sector enterprises.  Other 
donors have focused on streamlining the privatization process with little success.  
Privatizations can still take decades to achieve and are sometimes reversed in the face of 
political pressures.  Rather than get involved in these smaller transactions, it is proposed 
that the TA focus its resources on potential support to the three most important entities 
RNAC, Nepal Oil Corporation (NOC) and Nepal Telecommunications (NT). Creating an 
apex body for privatization will help speed up the wider privatization process.  
 
Improving service delivery  
 
8. 
Nepal has significantly improved child survival rates, reduced fertility and 
achieved gains in communicable disease control during the 1990s.  However, critical 
challenges remain, including a high maternal mortality rate of 539, 100,000 live births 
and widespread malnutrition.  Weak institutional capacity, inadequate public financing 
and inefficient spending, limited coverage and poor service quality, poor value from 
private health spending and a difficult topography, all impact health service outcomes.  
HMGN has developed a health sector strategy to address these issues.  The strategy 
includes decentralizing service delivery, introducing an Essential Health Care Package 
that focuses on reproductive health, child health, communicable disease control and 
improved outpatient services and public-private partnerships.  
 
9. 
Similarly in the education sector, Nepal is moving away from government 
delivery of school education to delivery by school management committees led by local 
communities in partnership with support organizations and with technical and financial 
support from government. This is a profound shift and to make this transition successful 
there is a need to develop new skills within government, and build capacity of school 
management committees and support organizations.  
 
Implementing a strategic communications program  
 
10. 
In order to maintain support for the PRSP, the Royal Proclamation and the 21-
point program, government intends to undertake a strategic communications campaign 
that will raise awareness of the benefits of economic reform including liberalizing factor 
markets and introducing increased private sector participation in all aspects of the 
economy.  A major goal of the communications campaign will be to de-politicize the 
issue of privatization and encourage the public to view reform as a pro-active choice that 
will promote economic development, improve service delivery and increase opportunities 
for individuals.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
Kathmandu, Nepal.   
Page  4
5. Environmental and Social Specialists on the Team 
Ms Zarafshan H. Khawaja (SASES) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
Page  5
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
BP 17.50 - Public Disclosure 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Ismail Radwan 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Zarafshan H. Khawaja 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Simon C. Bell 
 
Comments:   
