Doclent of
T'he World Bank
F~OR OFFCIAL USE ONLYk
jjjll'yjCRFjCjjF' COPY                                     Report No. 10229
Re:port No. 10229-CO   Type:  (PCR)
TWEDDLEJ, E/ X31707 / T9073/ OEDIY3
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM I PROJECT
(LOAN 2476-CO)
DECEMBER 26, 1991
Infrastructure and Energy Division
Country Department III
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bh recipienits only in the performance of
their orficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Peso Colombiano (ColS)
Average Exchange Rates
1984            US$1=      Co;S 1!1
1985            US$1=      ColS 189
1986            USS1-      Col$ 267
1987            US$1=       Col$ 374
1988            US$1-      Col$ 451
1989            USS1=      Col$ 570
1990 (Sept)           US$1=      Col$ 744
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
CARBOCOL           -  Carbones de Colombia S.A.
CIB                -  Complejo Industrial de Barrancabermeja
COLGAS             -  Compania Colombiana de Gas
CONPES             -  Consejo de Politica Econ6mica y Social
DNP                -  Departamento Nacional de Planeamiento
ECOPETROL          -  Empresa Colombiana de Petr6leos
EFE                -  Estudio Financiero del Sector Electrico
ENE                -  Estudio Nacional de Energia
FNC                -  Fondo Nacional del Carb6n
ICEL               -  Instituto Colombiano de Electricidad
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
I metric ton (m ton)             - 1,000 kilograms (kg)
I metric ton (m ton)             - 2,204 pounds (lb)
1 meter (m'                      - 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                 - 0.62 miles (mi)
1 cubic meter (m3)               - 35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
I barrel (Bbl)                   - 0.159 cubic meter
1 barrel (Bbl)                   - 42 gallons
1 metric ton of oil (API 30)    7.19 Bbls
1 kilocalorie (kcal)                3.97 Britist Thermal Units (BTU)
I ton of oil equivalent          - 10 million kcal (39.7 million BTU)



FOR OMCAL USE ONLt
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. D.C 20433
U.S A.
Office of Directow General
Operatens Evaluation
December 27, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Colombia
Petroleum I Project
(Loan 2476-CO)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Colombia - Petroleum I Project (Loan 2476-CO)" prepared by
the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office with Part II contributed by
the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the O;e::ations
Evaluation Department at this time.
2
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM I PROJECT
LOAN 2476-CO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE   .    .   .    .    .    .    .   .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .    .    .    .    .   .    .
EVALUATION SUMMARY  . . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . .          ii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . . . . .            1
Project Identity   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           1
Background   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..
Project Objectives and Description   . . . . . .          ...        3
Project Design and Organization  . . . . . . . . . .5. . .           S
Project Implementation . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          7
Project Results . . . . . . . . .. .       .  .  .  .  .    ........    8
Project Sustainability ....  .        .  .    ...........           11
Bank Performance ....  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .........  12
Borrower Performance  .      .  .  .  .  ..    .  .   .  . . . . . .  13
Project Relationship . . . . ......               .  .  .           14
Consultant's Services ... . .                                       15
Project Documentation and Data   ........  .                        15
Lessons Learned  .        . . . . . . .        .  . .               15
PART It:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE  . . . . .           16
PART III: BASIC DATA . . .                                                42
Related Bank Loans and/or Credits  .  .          .  .  .  . .       42
Project Timetable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . .          43
Loan Disbursements   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          44
Project Implementation indicators  . . . . . . .   .   . .          45
Project Costs and Financing   .... . . .   .   . . .              .  46
Project Results. ..  . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . .        47
S'tatus of Covenants  .§ . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..         49
Use of Bank Resources  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM I PROJECT
(Loan 2476-CO)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Petroleum I
Project, for which Loan 2476-CO in the amount of US$130.0 million wa.s approved
by the Bank on November 6, 1984. The loan was closed on June 30, 1989, on
schedule, and the undisbursed balance of US$23.1 million was canceled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure and Energy
Division of Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface,
Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
This PCR is based on the project documents, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and internal Bank memoranda.



- il -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM I PROJECT
(LOAN 2476-CO)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.          The project objectives weze to increase the production of crude
oil in Colombia through enhanced recovery methods, and to contribute to the
development of oil fields in joint ventures between private companies and
ECOPETROL. Thereby it would reduce imports and improve Colombia's balance of
payments and ECOPETROL's finances. The project was designed to strengthen
ECOPETROL's capabilities in enhanced oil recovery technology and environmental
protection and to provide transport infrastructure to allow production
increases and to spur further exploration. Furthermore, the project aimed to
promote a petroleum pricing policy based on maintaining domestic prices at the
level of import parity, and since this would greatly increase ECOPETROL's
gross income, to provide alternative investment choices, to favor efficient
resource allocation. The project included: (a) a secondary oil recovery
program in the Casabe field; (b) field development under association contracts
between ECOPETROL and private oil companies; (c) a 290 km pipeline to move
Occidental As,ociation crude oil from Cafho Lim6n to Rio Zulia; and (d)
technical assistance and studies.
Implementation ExRerience
2.          The loan was approved on November 6, 1984, signed on November 27,
1984, and declared effective on January 25, 1985. The Closing Date was on
June 30, 1989, after the cancellation of the undisbursed balance of US$23.1
million. The project was completed on schedule and within the original
budget, with the exception of the Casabe enhanced oil recovery program, which
experienced a one-year delay due to unexpected operational problems, and
required a lesser amount of investments. The Casabe component became less
economically viable because of lower petroleum prices during implementation
and a longer project life scheme (para. 7.04).
3.          During implementation of the project, there were no major changes
regarding the size and content of the project, except that the pipeline
subproject was retired from Bank financing, and there were some minor changes
in the chronological scheduling of some phases. This ocurred mainly in the
Casabe subproject and was due to the response of the oil reservoir to the
water flow injected in a section of the oil field, which required revaluation
of the water flow design for continuing with further injection of water into
other sectors (para. 6.01).
4.          ln the initial stages of project implementation, there were delays
in procurement due mainly tc the unfamiliarity of ECOPETROL-a first time



- iii -
borrower-with the Bank'G procurement procedures. Toward the end of the
project period, a standard bid document for international competitive bidding
(ICB) was cleared by the Bank, which minimized the difficulties encountered
earlier (para. 6.02).
5.          Disbursements were made in accordance with appraisal estimates.
Disbursements were made against (a) 50% of total expenditures-representing
100% of the foreign exchange cost-for the drilling services for the Casabe
enhanced recovery program, for the field developments, and for the enhanced
oil recovery pilot field tests; (b) 90% of total expenditures-representing
100% of the foreign exchange cost-for the other specialized services r6quired
by these items; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for all equipment; and (d)
100% of foreign expenditures for the studies and technical assistance.
ECOPETROL informed the Bank in October 1987 of its intention to cancel the
loan because it had become expensive compared to alternative sources open to
it. In May 1988, the Bank informed ECOPETROL that before this cancellation
could be processed, it would have to document all the expenditures made from
the special account. ECOPETROL supplied this documentation with some delay,
ac that the cancellation was not finalized until June 30, 1989. The
undisbursed balance canceled was US$23.1 million (para. 6.03-6.04).
6.          Considering that this project was the first Bank operation in the
Colombia petroleum sector, the Bank's over all performance was good, and it
was instrumental in improving the execution of the project. From the
beginning of the implementation, the Bank played a major role in the creation
and the strengthening of the Oil Recovery Unit for promoting further secondary
and enhanced oil recovery projects in Colombia. The Bank was very supportive
in approving disbursements of the maximum amount possible on all contracts
procured under the "association agreement" with private partners. This made
it possible to reduce to a minimum the number of contracts to be procured in
accordance with Bank procedures, and assured fast disbursements (para. 9.02).
Bank supervision missions were adequate and provided a good opportunity to
supply specialized technical assistance to ECOPETROL's staff. Their views and
recommendations on the project were beneficial to the smooth implementation of
the project. Bank responded in a flexible way to ECOPETROL's requests (para.
9.03-9.04).
Results
7.          The project achieved its objectives of increasing production of
crude oil in Colombia, through enhanced recovery methods, and by contributing
to the development of oil fields in joint ventures between private companies
and ECOPETROL. Also, the project improved Colombia's balance of payments and
ECOPETROL's finances by reducing imports. ECOPETROL has been considerably
strengthened as an institution. Its management is stronger and more outward-
looking than before and is able to focus on closer cooperation with private
oil companies. ECOPETROL's capabilities in enhanced oil recovery technology
and enviroumental protection have been reinforced. Under the loan, ECOPETROL



- iv -
has been able to add approximately 70 million barrels of crude oil to its
established recoverable reserves and tc produce 236,000 bpd from areas under
association contracts. This has represented ar accumulated production of 309
million barrels for the 1984-1989 period. With help from this project,
Colombia has become self-sufficient in petroleum products and an exporter of
crude oil (para. 7.01).
8.          The project provided critical funding to support a deepening of
ECOPETROL's venture operations with private companies. It also improved
knowledge of the crude oil reserves and production of the country. This has
assisted the Government in its current efforts to deregulate the sector and to
offer new areas for private sector exploration and exploitation. ECOPETROL'e
Long-Term Plan for the year 2000 placed emphasis on finding new reserves with
least risk, increasing production from well known fields, rehabilitating and
maintaining infrastructure facilities, developing human resources and finally
protecting the environment. Conclusions and recommendations from the studies
were considered appropriate and potentially helpful for further development of
crude oil reserves. another positive result from this project was the
identification of possiDle new projects, for further involvement of the Bank
in the gas sub-sector (para. 9.05).
Sustainability
9.          ECOPETROL has been able to attract a large number of oil companies
to explore and produce crude oil. Large hydrocarbon reserves have been
discovered, which have allowed production to increase regularly from 1985
through 1990. ECOPETROL's operational and maintenance practices now follow
very high standards. Consequently, it is expected that the project's
infrastructure will be maintained throughout the economic life of the
facilities constructed under the loan, provided that adequate financial
raaources continue to be available.
10.         Sustainability of institutional improvements should not present
any problem, as they are continuously updated and further developed by
ECOPETROL, which has the appropriate technical staff and the adequate
logistical support.
Findings and Lessons Learned
11.         Financing this project was a worthwhile experience.  The legal
framework giving incentives to private oil companies to explore for oil had
been put in place in 1976, but their willingness to risk investment in
exploration depended on their perception of ECOPETROL's ability to finance the
subsequent development of proven fields. The financing of such field
development under this Project therefore enabled Colombia to attract a large
number of private oil companies to explore and produce oil, investing heavily
and bringing to Colombia their well known technical expertise. They have
discovered large petroleum reserves, which have allowed production to increase
regularly. This fulfilled the Government's objective of making Colombia self-



- v -
sufficient in petroleum. Also, it has reinforced the strategic role of
ECOPETROL, which is to help implementing this policy by complementing the
efforts made by the private companies in the sector.
Some major lessons learned from this project ares
- The Bank should devote special effort anu continuous attention
to assisting its borrowers in the use of Bank's procurement
guidelines to accelerate disbursements and improve the
implementation of the projects.
- Continuous attempts should be made to stress the achievement of
financial self-sufficiency by the borrowers.
- Strong Government commitment 4.s required for projects that involve
a large role for the private sector in the petroleum sector
industry, especially in the areas of crude oil exploration and
production.
- Careful and comprehensive preparation of loan components is
worthwhile for petroleum proiects, especially in the areas of
technical design, organization and finances, which are key
elements for implementation success.
- Proper reporting and timely provision of adequate information to
interested parties improves the decision-making process.
- Flexibility is needed for adapting financial covenants to changing
circumstances, but the Bank should be ready to make difficult
decisions to exercise its remedies if needed to enforce those
agreed covenants.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM PROJECT (LOAN 2476-CO)
PART I Bank Review of the Project
1.        Prolect Identity
-Project Name:   Petroleum Project I
-Loan Number:    2476-CO
-RVP Unit:        LA3IE
-Country:         Colombia
-Sector:          Energy
-Subsector:       Petroleum
2.        Background
2.01      Colombia has abundant and diversified energy resources, including
all the natural primary energies; hydro power, crude oil, natural gas, coal,
fuelwood, and other agricultural residues. The supply costs are about average
by world standards.  Some 40% of the country's demand for primary energy is
for crude oil, about 14% for each of natural gas and coal, 102 for
hydroenergy, and some 22% for traditional fuels (fuelvood etc.). The rate of
growth of demand for tota'l primary energy in the past has not been
particularly high, and generally has been of the same order of magnitude as
economic growth. At present, the country is self-sufficient in all the
primary energy sources. Production of commercial energy relies primarily upon
refined oil products (47%) and less on coal (29%), natural gas (14%), and
hydroelectricity (10%). Puelwood, bagasse and related agricultural residues
are still the dominant energy in rural areas, and 90% of the energy used for
cooking in rural households is fuelwood. In the future, some shift in this
mix is likely, since coal makes up about 91% of Colombia's known energy
reserves, oil 6%, natural gas 2% and hydroelectricity 1%.
2.02      The Colombian's energy sector is fairly well developed.  Each of the
energy subsectors has had a long history of development in the country, except
for large-scale development of non-associated natural gas, which began only
about five years ago. Two important initiatives of the 1980s have been the
discovery and development of the giant Cafo Lim6n oil field (1 billion
barrels), which recently has begun exporting crude oil, and the development of
the export coal project at Cerrej6n Norte, with a capacity by 1989 of 15
million tons per year. Both projects are now exporting to world markets.
2.03      Colombia's petroleum subsector has been relatively well explored
but still offers considerable scope for further exploration. Recoverable
reserves are estimated at about 1.8 billion bbl in 1989. The reserve-to-
production ratio is in the order of 13.2 years. Crude oil production averaged
about 150,000 bpd in the early 1980's, but after the Cafio Lim6n field went
into production in 1986, production more than doubled to 374,000 bpd in 1988.
So far nearly 900 exploratory wells have been drilled in 11 of the sedimentary
basins. On the average, Colombia's exploratory efforts have resulted in a
ratio of one commercial well discovery for every nine dry wells, or an average
success ratio of 10%, which is quite favorable when compared to other
countries.



2.04      Colombia has been ci mcodest crude oil. oxporter throughout the
history of its petroleumii iuidut4try.  Howevet, the development of the Cafio Lim6n
oil field has enabled the pewrio11Ap, f-&itbrhector to play a major role in the
development of the country't oncr.onYv ts ,ce 198$.  'Thanks to thil  field, the
trade balance of the petrolour' i,ort.i   b  -me ponitive in 1985 after a long
period of deficit, and reached a. curp    ,f US$830 million in 1988.  Exports
of crude oil increased from 16.5 nlii1.n barrels in 1986 to 28.7 million
barrels in 1988.  Income from ercLd  oil1 exports was US$457 million in 1987,
but due to lower pricee: income decllnedl to US$396 million in 1988, despite the
increased volume.  In tlhst yrt-i-, hlot total exports of petroleum and refined
products amounted to US$986 m4i  si.oiJ, or 18% of the country' 8 exports.  The
project under review coiitribtted Jii 1u;sta.ntiAJ measure to this success.
2.05      In Colombia, the tnstitution responsible for the development of all
petroleum resources and poliloes, I.ncluding prices, is thie Ministry of Mines
and Energy (MlK).  The Empreoa (i'ombtana de Petr6leos (ECOPETROL), set up in
1948, is the main operating arm of the government And the active participant
in crude oil and natural. gas exploration, produictionl, refining,
transportation, and marketinr.  PrLlvate companies produce crude oil under
"association" contracts ancd `onuce otei'on" agreemeuts with ECOPETROL.-
Private companies produce most of ihe crude oil. in the counrtry; in 1988
ECOPETROL'a ehare was 21.S.  ECOP.I'ROL's exploration program is supported by
contributions from crude oil export revenues and is concentrated in areas of
least risk.  A new type ot jolnt-exploration contract made law  in 1976 and put
into use by in recent years, wjchin the framework of this project, has already
attracted many foreign companies. T'le National Planning Departmnent (DNP)
reviews, and the Interministeriatl Committee (CONPES) approves, major
'.ydrocarbon investments that voquire foreign finanicing.  The Comaisi6n Nacional
de Energia (CNE), created in 1989, is responsible for overseeing energy
studies of the country and for advising the MME on energy policy options.
3.        Sector Develoqpent ObetyJKes
3.01      The energy sector has an impact on the economic development of
Colombia that extends far bevond the sector itself, and which affects many
dimensions  ' macroeconomrn and sectoiral economic performance.  The
Government   strategy for the energy sector is to promote its comparative
advantage as a petroleum and noal exporter by fostering exploration and
development of these resources. To serve the domestic energy market, it aims
to develop its abundant coal and hydropower potential, using them to replace
petroleum wherever appropriate, so that it is available for export. Progress
has been impeded, however, by consistent underpricing of most energy sources
(oil products, natural gas and electricity) and inappropriate relative prices
between potential substitutes.
1/Concession agreements are prodkuction sharing agreements, where ECOPETROL
does not need to make anyv i,vestmDcnLf, Acsociation contracts are production
sharing agreements where LCOHPP)R(X.  !akes investments, starring with a
reimbursement to the private company for any successful exploration costs, and
participates in the funding of all development.



3.02      The Government's more npe:i fLic objeci Ivet; I,, tlhe liydrocarbon sector
during the ptF-it decade lhave been:
(a)  celvelop:lng a comprehensive peoti(ol  em pul I .y to encourage risk
invectment;
(b)  fostering crude oil exploratian andl development by the private
sector  tshrough improvement E:s In  fgu l avtorie, fi scal terms,
concescio1C  t.o, XC3oC±iL1.kot  n   s: i l, i    ((oidditions and royalties;
(C.)  e"tadb2 i hii n%, 8 OuL tah)-j  o1I   The W 2M, ; .  i li', 8trLategy;
(d)  t:ntretngtlkentng EGOIPFTROI.': wonoef lnoii tuid  1 inaiirees;  and
e)  svtablA sling anr inst itivLuJo ei-al &l *-  i   mechanism for an
effectiLve fisora:l transfe.  eyX l ot- -it 1be oSf'(t or,
3.03       tlhe Cc- verrulient has embairked on, . px.ogram of Jnstitutional
improvement and fjinanicial strengthening designed to implement this strategy.
Large investmenSt of more than US$600 ml  i:ion 1w,'y yer will be needed in the
crude oil and natural gas subsectots Loi. ,le xwxi £ex2 years to: (i) discover
and develop new reserves that would mamnaIiiin thoe export potential, (ii)
develop the ref:ining and transportati oi cap-(-:ItY  ot scien.usirate with the market;
and (iii) distribute natural gAs to new u-e,&.  However, the new government
faces the probleum of how to garner thl lbenef'   de         firom the high level of
public investmento in energy over the pC4s  duc2sd,t  i .;i tlia face of widespread
reluctance to allow energy to be priced at :+ , 'ts   1 economic cost.
4.        Proeci_ Ob ctrives and Description
4.01      PrLoe    becti-ves   The primtiary objective of the project was to
increase crude oil production in Colombia anid reduce its dependence on
imported oil by ; (a) enhancing oil recovery programs; (b) promoting a sound
petroleum products pricing policy, and allowing investment choices to favor
efficient resource allocation; and (c) strengthening ECOPETROL's operational
efficiency and its functioning effectively in partnership with private
investors. The pro4ect would also reinforce ECOPETROL's capabilities for
enhanced crude oil recovery technology and inicorporate suitable environmental
protection into its activities.
4.02      Description:  The project comprised four main components: (i)
ECOPETROL9s Casabe enhanced oil recovery program; (ii) field development
under ECOPETROL's association contracts; (iii) the Cafio Lim6n-Rio Zulia
Pipeline;  and (iv) technical assistane.. rand training.
ECOPETROL's Casabe enhanced oil re r-_Ro  4,am:   Casabe is an old crude oil-
producing field, which reverted to ECOPETROT. from Shell in the early fifties
when its concession agreement expired. The project provided for (i) the
drilling of about 500 wells to inject water in 4 overlapping reservoirs, (ii)
drilling of 53 new oil-producing wells, (iii) supply of drilling and
completion rig services, (iv) design anu construct4on of surface facilities to
process fluids, (v) storage and trensfer cf crude oil, (vi) work-over of
producing wells, (vYi) construction of a plart for water injection; and (viii)
the treating of residual formetion water to remove pollutants before disposal
into the nearby Magdalena River.  To assist in the handling of technical
problems that could emerge during the  pro1ec  provisions were made under the



- 4 -
loan for consultants and engineering services. This project was expected to
recover about 70 million barrels of additional oil from this field by the year
2004.
Field development under ECOPETROL's association contracts with private
companies:  This subproject was to cover field development at a base cost of
US$353 milllon, and to include the crude oil discoveries made by Occidental
Petroleura (USA), ELF Aquitaine (France) and Chevron (USA), as well as to
conduct an enhanced crude oil recovery projec-t by steam injection in the
Cocorna oil field by Texaco (USA). Under its association contracts with
private investors/operators, who provide their contribution in the form of
equity, ECOPETROL is required to contribute 50% of the development costs and
is entitled to receive 50% of the crude oil production, after deducting a 20%
government royalty on total output. Under this component, the Bank was to
finance a part of ECOPETROL's contractual financial cbligations to private
investors/operators for the various field developments. This project was
expected to produce an incremental 16,500 Bbls/d. 1,y 1988, with an annual
value of about US$250 million, equivalent to about 10% of Colombia's total
projected crude oil production in that year.
Caflo Lim6n - Rio Zulia Pipeline: This subproject was to cover the
construction of a 290 km, 18/20 inches pipeline, at a base cost of US$140
million, to transport crude oil from the Cafio Lim6n fields directly to the
refinery. The pipeline was to be constructed and operated under an
association contract between ECOPETROL and Occidental Petroleum on a 50/50
partnership basis. For the construction, Occidental Petroleum would
contribute 3%, the Bank 6% and the remainder would be borrowed from export
credit agencies/commercial sources, all of which would constitute ECOPETROL's
equity share.
Technical assistance, training and studies: This subproject was to provide
technical assistance to the Enhanced Oil Recovery Unit, which was established
in ECOPETROL during the preparation period of the project, with the purpose of
strengthening its capabilities in design and supervision of technical studies,
and in planning and evaluation of pilot field tests. Reservoir simulation
studies were to be carried out in 18 fields operated by ECOPETROL and private
companies, as well as four pilot field tests using enhanced recovery
techniques. ECOPETROL's personnel were to receive training in these
techniques, both on the job and abroad. An environmental protection study
would be undertaken under the project to facilitate establishment of national
policies and appropriate safeguards to minimize undesirable effects on the
environment from field development and the use of hydrocarbons. A total of
280 man-months of consulting services would be provided under this component.
4.03      The total project cost was estimated at US$938.7 million, of which
US$590.9 million (60%) was in foreign exchange. ECOPETROL was to finance
about US$366.2 million, or nearly 40% of the total project cost, from internal
cash generation, thus covering the full local costs. Foreign costs would be
financed by the private operators (US$275 million), export credits (about
US$105 million), commercial banks/B-loan (about US$80 million) and the Bank
loan (US$130 million). The Bank loan would finance a relatively small part of
the project: 13% of the total costs and 22% of the foreign costs.



-5-
5.        Proiect Design and Organization
5.01      The project was well prepared and in line with the Government's
strategy for the hydrocarbon sector. The project was prepared by ECOPETROL
with the help of foreign and local consultants and Bank missions. It aimed
through the proposed B-loan financing at alleviating external commercial
lenders' reluctance to increase their exposure in Colombia. With the
concomitant aim of minimizing public sector capital outlays to the extent
practicable, private investors would play a major role in project financing.
The project was the Bank's first operation in Colombia's petroleum subsector.
By providing funds, the Bank would ensure quick implementation and improve
ECOPETROL's creditworthiness and increase the potential for commercial
lending. The conceptual foundation for the project was thus clear and
consistent with the established procedures for petroleum projects. The timing
of the project was also appropriate, becauae of the urgent need to develop
existing crude oil reserves and to increase domestic production.
5.02      The Bank loan was made at the standard variable interest rate, with
a maturity of 14 years, including four years of grace. The favorable cash-
flow projections of the project and ECOPETROL allowed terms more stringent
than the usual country terms (17 years). An amount equal to 10% of interest
payable by ECOPETROL to the Bank was to be paid by the Borrower (ECOPETROL) to
the Government as a charge for the Government's guarantee. The loan proceeds
would be disbursed to ECOPETROL through a dollar-denominated Special Account
of up to US$20 million.
5.03      Originally, the project had been identified by a Bank mission to
Colombia in May 1978. The project had been appraised in 1979 and approved by
the Loan Committee in April 1980, but it had not been negotiated. The major
issues of concern to the Bank at that time had been the pricing policies for
petroleum products, the decline in domestic production, which had resulted in
Colombia becoming a net petroleum importer in 1976, a marked decline in
private sector activity and, as a result, a rapidly deteriorating financial
performance by ECOPETROL, which had difficulties in meeting fully its
obligations toward foreign contractors. ECOPETROL and the Government had
fully supported the objectives of the project, but the financial covenants
that the Bank considered necessary to strengthen ECOPETROL's finances had not
been acceptable to the Government, because they felt they would restrict their
flexibility in adjusting petroleum product prices, a very sensitive issue in
Colombia. At that time ECOPETROL was able to borrow commercially "with no
strings attached" by using short-term borrowing and commercial financing.
However, three years later in September 1983 ECOPETROL again requested Bank
assistance to support the efforts begun in 1980. The Bank reacted promptly
and sent a project identification mission in October 1983, followed by an
appraisal mission in February 1984. Negotiations took place in August 1984
and the loan was approved and signed in November 1984. The loan became
effective in January 1985.
5.04      Loan disbursements were projected to take up to four years from
mid-1985 through 1988, and were based upon the tight schedule approved for the
project execution. The disbursement period, relatively short when compared to
other Bank-supported petroleum projects in Latin America, was supported by the
experience of the petroleum companies operating in Colombia and the foreign
suppliers and service firms located within the country that are well
represented in Colombia. However, initially disbursements were slow, because



of the lack of experience on the part of ECOPETROL staff in implementing
projects following Bank guidelines for procurement and disbursements.
5.05      The Bank's procurement requirements were discussed during appraisal
and agreed upon with ECOPETROL. This included drilling equipment, services
for production operations and secondary recovery pumps both for Casabe and for
the pilot enhanced oil recovery operations. Other specialized services
(cementing, electrical logging and gun-perforation needed during completion of
wells) were to be procured by requesting bids from all firms known to supply
these services. This was greatly facilitated, because ECOPETROL kept an
annually updated file on suppliers and services contractors which were in fact
prequalified. The association contract partners, who are the operators for
the association field development operations, were to procure the drilling,
production services and selected specialized services (which represent about
50X of the total foreign exchange cost of these developments and are equal to
ECOPETROL's share) according to international bidding, to enable the Bank to
provide financing for these contracts The closing date for the Loan was set
at June 30, 1989.
5.06      The major issues that arose during appraisal of the project were:
(a) procurement procedures; (b) financial projections of ECOPETROL; (c)
foreign resource mobilization; (d) revolving fund; (e) price contingency and
depreciation allowances; and (e) external audit. These are discussed below.
5.07      Procurement procedures:  During the preparation of the project, the
Bank enquired about the authority that ECOPETROL might have to impose Bank
procurement guidelines on its association contract partners. The Bank was
concerned about the procurement of about US$10 million worth of equipment and
services for the pipeline, to be awarded under the turnkey contract, which
would not be subject to its procurement guidelines. ECOPETROL was made aware
of this potential conflict and agreed to abide by the Bank's guidelines for
procurement of Bank-financed contracts. At negotiations, ECOPETROL assured
the Bank that its association partners would use Bank procurement procedures,
and consultants would also be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
5.08      ECOPETROL's financial proiections:  During appraisal, the Bank, in
order to assure adequate financial and economic performance of the project and
to maintain a reasonable control on the investment program, discussed
intensively with ECOPETROL the preparation of annually based five-year
financial projections. The financial ratios were revised at negotiations and
agreement was reached, to be included in the draft Loan Agreement, to monitor
ECOPETROL's financial performance. The gradually improving targets of current
ratios agreed during negotiation would henceforth keep ECOPETROL's short-term
debt within acceptable limits. Also, the Bank discussed the current petroleum
products prices in Colombia, as related to ECOPETROL's profitability and their
macroeconomic implications.
5.09      Foreian resource mobilization:  It was noted that some pressures
were being exerted in Colombia for ECOPETROL to mobilize resources,
particularly short-term debt from external lenders, for the benefit of public
sector institutions whose access to foreign exchange had become constrained.
During negotiations of the project, the Bank insisted on the prospect for
increased participation by private investors in field development, as a result
of the crude oil discoveries made by Occidental Petroleum. Bank support to
the private sector of Colombia for petroleum development has been strongly
positive in the recent past and found encouragement through the project.



- 7 -
Thus, ECOPETROL agreed with the Bank, particularly given the favorable
investment climate in Colombia, to attract foreign risk capital.
5.10      Revolving fund (svecial account):  The Bank considered that the
proposed initial contribution of US$20 million to the revolving fund was too
high. It recommended a more realistic amount of US$10 million based on the
aver&ge of estimated quarterly disbursements. If necessary, the remaining
amount of the fund could be increased by shifting funds from the unallocated
category. At negotiations, ECOPETROL made a strong plea for the Bank to keep
the maximum initial deposit at the US$20 million level, considering the tight
schedule for the project execution. In view of this and the advanced state of
the discussions with ECOPETROL, the Bank acceded to the Borrower's request.
5.11      Price contingency and depreciation allowances: During negotiations,
the Bank suggested that price contingency provisions for local costs should
take into account the expected real devaluation of the Peso over the project
implementation period. Also, the depreciation allowance, which was calculated
on the basis of assets' book values, overstated ECOPETROL's profitability,
which would be lower if the depreciation allowance was calculated on the basis
of revalued assets. ECOPETROL agreed to present financial statements
reflecting inflation adjustments, and future supervision missions would
discuss possibilities for inflation accounting with ECOPETROL's staff,
5.12      External audit:  ECOPETROL had been audited by a special team of
the Office of the Comptroller General. However, during the preparation of the
project, agreement was reached that ECOPETROL's financial statements and the
project accounts would be audited by independent auditors.
6.        Project Implementation
6.01      The project was scheduled to be completed by December 1988.
ECOPETROL was in charge of carrying out all the project components. The
project was in fact completed on schedule and with,n the original budget,
except for the Casabe enhanced oil recovery program, which experienced a one-
year delay due to unexpected operational problems. Despite this problem, the
Casabe component remained economically viable as a result of better than
expected performance and lower costs. During implementation of the project,
there were no major changes regarding the size and content of the project,
except for the pipeline subproject which was retired from Bank financing and
there were minor changes in the chronological scheduling of some phases. This
ocurred in the Casabe subproject and was due to the response of the oil
reservoir to the water flow injected in a section of the field, which required
revaluation of the water flow design for continuing with further injection of
water into other sectors. The effective coordination of the project by
ECOPETROL's committee and the long experience of its staff were important
factors in the successful implementation of the project.
6.02      Procurement slowed down the initial phases of project
implementation. ECOPETROL's staff involved in the project did not have
experience with Bank procurement procedures and requirements. There were some
delays in the preparation and processing of bidding documents for logging and
perforation services and for the award of contracts for mechanical pumps. The
situation was complicated by the fact that ECOPETROL's normal procurement
procedures differed substantially from the Bank's and that the Bank was
financing only a small percentage of the main component. However, ECOPETROL
applied Bank-style ICB to most of the relevant contracts, even those not



financed by the Bank. Toward the end of the project period, ECOPETROL became
familiar with the Bank's guidelines, which eased the difficulties encountered
earlier.
6.03      Disbursements were made against: (a) 50% of total expenditures-
-representing 100% of the foreign exchange cost--for the drilling services for
the Casabe enhanced recovery program, for the field developments, and for the
enhanced oil recovery pilot field tests; (b) 90% of total
expenditures-representing 100% of the foreign exchange cost-for the other
specialized services required by these items; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures
for all equipment; and (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for the studies and
technical assistance. ECOPETROL informed the Bank in October 1987 that it
intended to cancel the loan because it had become expensive compared to
alternative sources open to it. In May 1988, the Bank informed ECOPETROL that
before this cancellation could be processed, it would have to document all the
expenditures made from the special account. ECOPETROL supplied this
documentation with some delay, so that the cancellation was not finalized
until June 30, 1989. The undisbursed balance canceled was US$23.1 million.
6.04      The Technical A.ssistance Component:  Most of the objectives of the
technical assistance werfr accomplished. There was a slow start-up, caused by
delays in setting up the Oil Recovery Unit within ECOPETROL. The reservoir
simulation study of the Casabe secondary recovery project was awarded in 1986
and finished in 1987. This study resulted in the development of a
mathematical computerized reservoir simulation model, which is still being run
on ECOPETROL's computers, to manage progress of water injection and project
production performance, and thus help correct in advance any operational
problems which might arise in the future. The development of suitable
supervision procedures and design capabilities for the newly created Oil
Recovery Unit and the training of the staff was accomplished. As part of the
technical assistance, ECOPETROL prepared a long-torm investment plan (Plan de
Desarrollo ECOPETROL, Afio 2000). Supervision missions flagged their concern
about the slowness of action by the Government to raise prices for fuels and
other energy resources; to define natural gas tariffs and codes; and the role
played by the Colombian Institute of Petroleum to train gas technicians.
6.05      Proiect Cost:  Based upon data supplied in December 1990, the total
cost of the Bank financed portion of the project reached about US$321.0
million, of which US106.9 million (33.3Z) was financed by the Bank and US214.1
million (66.7%) was financed by ECOPETROL. This represents a US$52.1 million
(14.0%) lower cost than the appraisal estimate, mainly because of lower costs
in drilling and work-over activities, as compared with appraisal estimates,
but also because Bank funds were not used to finance any of the pipeline
costs. The above total cost does not include those costs financed by private
operators, export credits and commercial banks, which were used mainly to
cover the costs of the field development under the association contracts.
7.        Project Results
7.01      The project's objectives were achieved: the production of crude oil
in Colombia increased through enhanced recovery methods; it contributed to the
development of oil fields in joint ventures between private companies and
ECOPETROL, and thus improved Colombia's balance of payments. Under the loan,
ECOPETROL was able to add to its recoverable reserves approximately 1,181
million barrels of crude oil and to produce 236,000 bpd from areas under



9-
association contracts. This represents an accumulated production of 309
million of barrels for the period 1984-1989, out of which 602 belonged to
ECOPETROL. As a reault of this project, Colombia has become a net exporter of
crude oil.
7.02      Casabe Secondar  0oil Recovery Program:  A total of 508 injection
wells (248 in North Casabe and 260 in South Casabe) and 83 production wells
were drilled. Also, seven shallow water production wells were drilled, plus
working over oi 324 existir.g producing oil wells, and including the
construction of water gathering lines and the design and construction of water
storage facilities. By December 1989, the oil production reached 25,000
Bbls/day and water injection 240,000 Bbls/day, which were the targets of the
project. This added an extra 5.7 million of barrels of additional crude oil
reserves that could be recovered from the existing Casabe field.
7.03      Field Development under Association Contracts:  Four association
contracts were originally approved between ECOPETROL and Elf-Aquitaine,
Occidental Petroleum, Texaco and Chevron to develop the fields of Casanare,
Caflo Lim6n, Cocorn& and Castilla, respectively. Later, a new association
contract was approved between ECOPETROL and Hocol to develop the field of
Palermo, instead of the contract with Chevron to develop the Castilla field.
All contracts were reviewed and approved by the Bank.
- Occidental Association: A total of 18 wells were drilled with the
Bank financing. Field crude oil production started in 1985 at a rate
of 30,000 bpd. By September 1990, the crude oil production was
190,000 bpd from the Yuca/Montenegro/Cahto Lim6n areas, of which
100,000 bpd were exported. Through 1989, total accumulated production
reached 242 million barrels of crude oil. Production is handled
through two production facilities with a capacity to handle a total
production of 215,000 bpd, with a water cut of about 60x. Recoverable
reserves from the fields are currently estimated at about 900 million
barrels, against 37 million barrels estimated at appraisal.
- Texaco Association: A total of 160 production wells were drilled.
The association exploited the fields of Cocorn&/ Nar6. The field
production is transported by the existing pipeline to the
Barrancabermeja refinery where the crude oil is processed. The Bank
financed hydraulic and mechanical equipment, water line construction
and pipelines maintenance. Present production is 15,000 bpd by cycle
steam injection, about 100% more than estimated at appraisal.
Recoverable reserves from the field are currently estimated at 105
million barrels. Total accumulated production for the 1984-1989
period was 28 million barrels.
- Elf-Aquitaine Association: There are six production fields under this
association (Cafto Garza, Barquerefia, La Gloria Norte, Cravo Sur,
Tocaria, and La Flora). Development of these fields was delayed due
to evacuation capacity limitations. A total of 20 producing wells
were drilled, and present production is about 8,500 bpd. The Bank
financed only the field development of Cafio Garza. Recoverable
reserves from the field are currently estimated at 40 million barrels.
Total accumulated production for 1984-1989 was 13 million barrels.



- 10 -
- Hocol Association: This association exploited the San Francisco field
which was put into production in 1985. This contract replaced the
original association contract with Chevron, designed to develop the
Castilla field. A total of 36 wells were drilled, and its present
production is 18,000 bpd. The Bank financed the construction of the
pipeline. The crude oil was transported by the Dina pipeline until
capacity of this pipeline was increased. Production is expected to
increase to 23,000 bpd as soon as the crude oil line pipeline is
completed. Recoverable reserves from the fields are estimated at 136
million barrels and accumulated production for the 1985-1989 period
was 26 million barrels.
7.04      ECOPETROL's financial situation improved considerably during the
period  1985-1989 (Annex 6).  ECOPETROL is financially autonomous.  Its equity
increased 292 from 1985 to 1989 (US$444 million to US$573 million) and it was
able to comply with its debt-equity ratio covenant of 602. Its total assets
grow 32Z. The current ratio grew from 0.62 in 1985 to 0.95 in 1989, lower
than the covenanted ratio of 1.1. In 1985, its net losses were US$148 million
as a result of the fall of crude oil prices on the world market. Thereafter,
ECOPETROL's financial situation improved considerably over the following
years, as a result of the implementation of new consumer prices and
commencement of production from the Caf¶o Lim6n field and the firming-up of
international oil prices.  ECOPETROL's net income amounted to US$122 million
in 1989.  It met fully the operating income covenant of at least 1.4 times the
aggregate debt service requirement during the project implementation period.
The Bank recommended to use long-term financing instead of utilizing cash flow
from operations, including the funds from the Bank loan, which would make cash
available for other purposes, including transfers to the government.
7.05      A recent re-evaluation performed by ECOPETROL, based on new
forecasts of production, shows that a total of 1,181 million barrels (ELF 40
million, Occidental 900 million, Texaco 105 million and Hocol 136 million)
will be recovered from these fields by year 2000, against the 70 million
barrels estimated by the Bank at appraisal. The ex-post economic rate of
return Al for the Casabe Enhanced Oil Recovery project is 82, which is lower
than the 422 at appraisal. This is due to the considerable drop in petroleum
prices during project implementation (to US$11-17 per barrel) compared to
prices at appraisal (US$30 per barrel) and the oil recovery scheme of 28 years
instead of 20 years. Ex-post economic rates of return for the association
contracts are the following:
Rcenoidi  Atae of MMtU
- (p?c*ntag*e)
0entracto                    Appraisal       Actual
Occidental                         32           100
Texaco                             23           100
Elf-Aquitaine                      34            86
Hocol                               -           100
Chevron                            64            -
Sourcee ECOPEThOL
2L/ Ex-post economic return: the development costs are actual, but asa reenues are still forecaate. Forecast prima will have
changed, so will quantities produced.



- 11 -
7.06      The project contributed to institutional building by develcping
ECOPETROL's capacity to identify, appraise and supervise enhanced oil recovery
projects. Also, the project was vital in strengthening ECOPETROL's
operational efficiency and its functioning effectively in partnership with
private investors. ECOPETROL's management information system was improved and
is now able to use its professional capabilities more efficiently. The
restructuring of ECOPETROL's accounting and budgeting systems has provided the
basis for cost accounting and the establishment of profit centers within
ECOPETROL. A Manual of Accounting Procedures was prepared, that facilitates
the preparation of revenues and cost information for each of ECOPETROL's
activities, as well as the costing of products. Its staff has been trained
and many of its technicians and engineers have been given the opportunity to
improve their skills by attending courses and seminars in various disciplines
of the petroleum sciences. ECOPETROL's management is stronger and more
outward looking than before and is able to focus on closer cooperation with
private foreign companies in exploration ventures.
7.07      A positive contribution of the project was the improved knowledge of
the crude oil reserves and production capabilities of the country. This has
assisted the Government in its current efforts to deregulate the sector and to
offer new areas for private sector exploration and exploitation and to
continue to reserve an important role for the private sector.
7.08      The loan came at a time when ECOPETROL needed funds to allow
exploration to increase crude oil production and reserves, as well as
promotion of new exploration by foreign oil companies. However, after
ECOPETROL's creditworthness improved and its potential for borrowing
increased, ECOPETROL canceled the balance of the loan and implemented with its
own funds the components that were to have been financed by the US$23.1
million carcoled from the loan.
7.09      Early during project implementation, the Bank realized that
XWOPETROL would soon be flush with cash generated by the project. At that time
there was no Government agency (such as CONFIS today) to oversee and decide
what level of investments ECOPETROL should be allowed to carry out. Therefore,
a study was conducted to recommend alternative mechanisms for the transfer of
resources from ECOPETROL to the Government. As for the planned studies to
better define the level of prices for petroleum products to be applied for
sales in the domestic market, there was no succesK in convincing the
Government to carry them out.
8.        Proiect Sustainability
8.01      The incentive framework for private exploration had been established
since 1976. The international private oil companies, however, saw field
development as dependent on ECOPETROL's ability to finance its share of
production costs.  This is how the Project had its greatest imp3ct.  It enable
ECOPETROL to attract a large number of such companies to explore and produce
crude oil. Large petroleum reserves have been discovered, which have allowed
production to increase regularly from 1985 through 1990. ECOPETROL now
functions both as an integrated company responsible for exploration,
production, drilling, and refining operations, and as a holding company for
other petroleum-related operations. ECOPETROL's operational and maintenance
practices follow very high standards. Its main policy is to ensure self-
sufficiency in hydrocarbon products for the country. Consequently, it is
expected that the project's infrastructure will be maintained throughout the



- 12 -
economic life of the facilities constructed under the loan, provided that
adequate financial resources continue to be available.
8.02      Sustainability of institutional improvements should not present any
problems, as they are continuously updated and further developed by ECOPETROL,
which has the appropriate technical staff and the adequate logistical support.
During the final stages of the Bank's project implementation, ECOPETROL had
already demonstrated its ability to appraise new projects, as well as to
supervise their preparation and implementation.
9.        Bank Performance
9.01      This project was the first Bank-financed operation in the petroleum
sector in Colombia. However, because of the Bank's familiarity with the
hydrocarbon sector issues and agencies from the appraisal aborted five years
before, the project took only five months to be prepared the second time. The
project was appraised in less than one year after its identification. Taking
into consideration that this was also the first Bank project involving private
oil firms in the host country, it is considered that overall Bank performance
was highly acceptable. The Bank maintained its dialogue with ECOPETROL since
the identification of the project. The Bank reacted fast to the Government of
Colombia's request for reducing the country's dependence on imported oil and
easing external commercial lenders' reluctance to increase their exposure in
Colombia. At the time of preparc.ion and appraisal, both the financial and
operational performance of ECOPETROL were weak; therefore, appropriate
measures were considered necessary to strengthen ECOPETROL's finances, and
positive steps were taken during appraisal and subsequent stages to improve
ECOPETROL's operational efficiency. Also during preparation, the Bank
contributed significantly to the project's subsequent success by interpreting
the Borrower's priorities based on analysis of needs, costs, and possibilities
of the crude oil subsector in Colombia. The project was timely and well
selected, since it represented a high priority concern for the Government at
the time.
9.02      The Bank's assistance was likewise instrumental in improving the
execution of the project. Since the beginning of project implementation, the
Baink played an important role in approving disbursements of the maximum amount
possible on all contracts procured under the "Association Agreements" with
private partners. This allowed ECOPETROL to reduce to a minimum the number of
contracts to be procured in accordance with Bank procedures. This also
assured fast disbursements, since ECOPETROL urgently needed such funds with a
minimum of administrative restrictions. The Bank played a major role in the
creation of the Oil Recovery Unit for promoting further secondary and enhanced
oil recovery projects in Colombia. Also, the Bank was valuable in
strengthening ECOPETROL's budgeting, accounting and administration procedures,
especially the implementation of an external audit system. The international
oil companies that became ECOPETROL's partners under the association contracts
were as much interested as the Government and ECOPETROL in Bank involvement in
the project.
9.03      The number of supervision missions appears to have been adequate.
Supervision efforts were sustained through an average of 2.5 missions per year
(full or partial) from project effectiveness to Closing Date. Bank
supervision of the project started in November 1984, even before the loan
became effective (January 1985). This was possible because the Bank was
already carrying out supervision on other operations.



- 13 -
9.04      Bank relationships with the Borrower were excellent throughout the
whole period. Bank staff working with ECOPETROL showed flexibility for
accepting changes in loan conditions, when conditions so warranted. ECOPETROL
managers expressed appreciation for this flexibility and for the technical
advice provided by the Bank staff, especially on issues such as: (i) defining
an appropriate strategy for the petroleum subsector; (ii) defining the optimal
institutional framework for the h.ydrocarbon sector and for ECOPETROL; and
(iii) for strengthening ECOPETROL's financial situation.
9.05      The main lesson the Bank has learned from this project is that it
demonstrated the Covernmeat's commitment to promoting a larger role for the
private sector in the petroleum industry. It also demonstrated that the
association contracts were an effective way for the Government and the private
companies to work together. The project was the first of its kind in
Colombia, a reflection of the Government's willingness to work with the Bank
in new areas and of its determination to establish a meaningful balance
between the public and private sector involvement in the petroleum sector.
9.06      Another lesson is that the Bank should devote special effort and
continuous attention to assist its borrowers in the use of its procurement
guidelines to accelerate disbursements and improve the implementation of the
project. The Bank should continue to stress the achievement of financial
self-sufficiency as a major objective, along with accountability of sector
agencies for their financial performance.
9.07      The creation by the borrower of a permanent division (Oil Recovery
Unit) responsible for operation and supervision of the project (at the Bank's
recommendation) also contributed to the rroject's smooth implementation. This
Unit was responsible for gathering reservoir informatiorn on all Colombian
fields and has developed a program to implement enhanced oil recovery
projects. It has continued functioning within ECOPETROL and its
responsibilities have expanded to evaluate and supervise field projects and
hire specialized consultants.
9.08      Petroleum projects are usually complex and require careful
preparation, and, therefore, the Bank should insist on full preparation of the
project components, including detailed technical design, organization and
financial aspects. The full and good preparation of the project made by
ECOPETROL was a key element for its implementation success.
10.       Borrower Performance
10.01     The project was properly identified and prepared.  Project
preparation and design were efficiently carried out by ECOPETROL's staff and
received adequate assistance from the Bank. Over the implementation period,
ECOPETROL developed satisfactory appraisal procedures and capabilities for
this kind of project. ECOPETROL's success in setting up and subsequently
using the Oil Recovery Unit, nas already been noted. ECOPETROL performed a
restructuring of its accounting, budgeting, and information systems,
introducing new accotnting and cost center codes, which will facilitate the
preparation of forecasts of revenues and cost information for each of
ECOPETROL's activities, as well as the costing of products. (This
strengthening of its accounting systems is being continued under the Public
Sector Reform Loan now under implementation.) ECOPETROL's management
information system has improved and presently is capable of processing data
from its different operational areas.



- 14 -
10.02     ECOPETROL continuod to improve its procurement procedures and
knowledge of the Bank Guidelines. After its initial delays in procurement,
because of the unfamiliarity of ECOPETROL staff with the Bank's procurement
procedures, notable progross took place in 1986-87. Consultants were selected
on the basis of lists approved by the Bank and an evaluation of the technical
merits of the proposals received from those invited to participate. ECOPETROL
also complied with the loan agreement and project agreement covenants on
reporting and auditing.
10.03     ECOPETROL's organization underwent minor changes during
implementation of the project. A new Vice-Presidency for Commercial
Activities was created. Two new decrees were issued by the Government: one
stating that no association contract with a foreign oil company could operate
a pipeline in Colombia for crude oil/natural gas transportation, the other
stating that all "Association Contract" foreign oil companies must sell their
production to ECOPETROL at the border of their concession or contract area.
ECOPETROL is a mature and well organized company with competent and effective
managemaimt and well trained technical personnel. Much emphasis has been
placed on omployee training. ECOPETROL's organization is centralized in its
five-man board, chaired by the Minister of Mines and Energy, and appointed
directly by the President of Colombia. Board mombers have broad powers
concerning all aspects of ECOPETROL's operations and have delegated
responsibl.lities quite adequately to ECOPETROL's President, who is also
appointed by the President of Colombia. Its six vice presidents (for
exploration, produ';tion and manufacturing, engineering and projects, finance,
administration and commercial activities) are all professional oilmen with
more than 20 years of service with ECOPETROL. As of December 31, 1990,
ECOPETROL's staff numbered 12,263, which represents an increase of 191
compared to 1984 as a result of expanded operation. Salaries paid by
ECOPETROL are competitive with those in the oil industry abroad.
10.04 Other lessons learned from this project experience are:
a)   To carry out a meaningful exploration program, it is essential for
ECOPETROL to determine, more thoroughly than in the past, its financial
implications in addition to its geological chances of success.
b)   Proper reporting and timely provision of adequate information to
interested parties improved the process of decision making.
11.    Project Relationship
11.01 Over the full period of loan implementation, ECOPETROL, the Bank and
the Colombian Government maintained a close relationship and good
understanding concerning some of the constraints for project implementation.
The relationship was beneficial for the achievement of the physical objectives
of the project. The Bank was firm in its efforts to strengthen ECOPETROL's
financial performance and its institutional capacity.



- 15 -
12.    gonsultant's iServlce
12.01 Contractors, consultants and suppliers, both local and foreign,
gonerally performed well. The consultants contracted to evaluate the
potential of twenty oil fields for enhanced recovery and to conduct laboratory
tests to define techniques most suitable for the success of the enhanced oil
recovery projects in various fields, did quality work and proved to be
efficient in assisting ECOPETROL's Oil Recovery Unit.
13.    Proect Documentation and Data
13.01 The Leg4l agreements and the SAR were adequately prepared and
generally comprehersive and served satisfactorily during project
implementation. Progress reports were submitted quarterly, but did not
reflect all financial aspects of ECOPETROL. Supervision mission reports
provided a good comprehensive picture of the technical matters of the project,
but rarely of the institutional and financial issues of the Borrower. There
is a lack of continuity between them, and it is sometimes difficult to get a
clear idea of the evolution of the situation between two supervision missions.
It proved to be quite difficult to identify and follow the major procurement
issues and to determine when they had been solved. This problem should not
occur with the newly adopted Form 590.
13.02 The required data for the preparation of the PCR were not always
readily available 'I-cause of incomplete project correspondence files, missing
supervision reports, progress reports and project data. Some of this is due
to poor filing practices in the Bank.
14.    Lessons Learned
14.01 Some major lessons learned from this project are:
- The Bank should devote special effort and continuous attention to
aesisting its borrowers in the use of Bank's procurement guidelines
to accelerate disbursements and improve the implementation of the
-Continuous attempts should be made to stress the achievement of
financial self-sufficiency by the borrowers.
- Strong Government commitment is required for projects that involve a
large role for the private sector in the petroleum sector industry,
especially in the areas of crude oil exploration and production.
- Careful and comprehensive preparation of loan components is
worthwhile for petroleum projects, especially in the areas of
technical design, organization and finances, which are key elements
for implementation success.
- Proper reporting and timely provision of adequate information to
interested parties improves the decision-making process.
- Flexibility is needed for adapting financial covenants tc changing
circumstances, but the Bank should be ready to make difficult
decisions to exercise its remedies if needed to enforce those agreed
covenants.



- ,6 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
Borrower's C ounto
(prepared by Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos (ECOPETROL)
1   INTRODUCTION
With the purpose of ensuring steady supplies and efficient use of energy
derived from petroleum, the Colombian authorities wiade it a priority for the
medium term to increase domestic crude oil production, reduce imports of
hydrocarbons as far as possible, and achieve energy self-sufficiency.
To these ends, ECOPETROL designed a project that would accomplish the
proposed objectives in four stages:
(l)   secondary oil recovery in the Casaba field;
(2)   development of oil fields, to be exploited under association contracts;
(3)   a pipeline between Cafio Lim6n and Rio Zulia;
(4)   technical assistance and training.
Ultimately, only the first two stages were carried out. SirLce production
results in the Caflo Lim6n field were excellent, the focus of the project was
switched toward exports of crude oil. Furthermore, in view of the high
effective cost of the loan, the decision was taken to cancel it before all
disbursements originally planned were carried out.
In the circumstances, this Project Completion Report deals only with the
project components which were actually implemented.
1.1 Secondary Oil Recovery in the Casabe Field
Executed in the Municipality of Yond6 (left bank of the Magdalena River,
opposite Barrancabermeja), in Antioquia Department, this project was both
administered and executed by ECOPETROL. It called for enhanced oil recovery,
to be achieved by increasing field energy artificially through the use of
water-injection methods within a closed system at pressures of 1,000-2,000
psig.
The original project forecast additional production potential of 70.7
million' barrels of oil (API 20), and accordingly included plans for the
following key activities:
-   drilling and completion of 500 injection wells and 53 production wells;
-   workover of 324 production wells and purchase of offtake equipment;
-   construction of water capture and distribution networks;
-   design and construction of a water injection plant with a capacity of
300,000 barrels of water per day;
-   construction of the system for collection, processing and handling of
both crude oil and waste waters;



17 -
-   interconnection and upgrading of the electric power system.
1.2 EL I yoppbeqcuDde.r ct.ion  otract:s
This project component originally called for the development of oil
fields recognized as commercially viable, under association contracts to be
entered into with such companies as OCCIDENTAL, ELF AQUITAINE, CHEVRON and
TEXACO.
The loan proceeds allocated to It were to be employed by ECOPETROL in
meeting its financial obllgationo to the private sector companies which would
operate in the oil fields and be responsible for executing the various
programs to be undertakeni in the interents of optimum development of the
different deposits.
2.   ?5ROJETBA NRBj
2. 1     i
The special circumstances which led to the project were low domestic
production of hydrocarbons, and high iiiternational prices -- as much an UG$35
per barrel in 1981    for the crude oil Colomabia had to import to cover
domestic demand for oil derivatives.
Given the proximity of the Casabe field to the Barrancabermeja refinery,
the easy availability of water, and the scale of the producing deposits, which
extended over an area of 1,860 ha and had been in primary production since
1945 (but with expectations of recovering only 20Z of the reserves existing
initially), a study was undertaken of the technical and economic feasibility
of secondary dovelopment of the field, using water injection methods, in order
to obtain additional o:.l reserves with fewer uncertainties than purely
exploratory operations :would involve.  Subsequently, three pilot tests were
carried out, beginning in March 1979; the findings generated, which were
evaluated in December 1980, were promising and led in October 1981 to
formulation of this project component by ECOPETROL technical staff.
In addition, the studies carried out under each association contract
demonstrated the existence of reserves of crude large enough to warrant the
oil fields in question being regarded as commercially viable, as well as the
need to develop them by drilling wells and providing facilities and equipment
to handle the crude that would be produced. Investment programs were then
planned on the basis of these studies and partially financed from the proceeds
of World Bank Loan 2476-CO.
2.2    r:
2.2.1    Casabe
Basic engineering design was the work of ECOPETROL technical staff,
while detailed engineering studies, particularly as regards plant and
facilities for water injection operations and collection and handling of
crude, were the work of several 'frms, among them Williams Brothers (USA) and
Tocnlavance Ingenleros Limitada (Colombia).
During execution of this project component, no major changes were made
in either its scope or content, although there were alterstiors in schoduling



following the InitI a] response t o 1   :, ^             -      .r"' noctor of -ho
field, since a reevaluation theo beL-U ,E             ' 1'"   i.i!)  )lc hu c.Or
could be flooded.
2.2 .2    Field deve:lovraLai~ °i.L-uuws   b; t W- CunirYctu
The following took part in the design, executiou anid developuient of each
of these subprojects:  ECOPETROL, as the governinent agency responsiblo for Y'heo
exploration and production of hydrocarbonis In tho public domain; the
corporation designated in the particular association contract as being
responsible for cxocution of all aspeXcts of tho subproject; and the Ofticeo of
the Comptroller-General of the Republic, as the highest-ranking oversight
agency in the Ropublic of Colombia.
Execution, development and complotJon of the varlous subprojects
financed took place in accordance with the upproved progrems and budget.,
which were modified from time to time as the realiti-es of the operation
requiredr
A oeriee of ..easibility studies seo;ved an the bausi  for selection of the
various subprojects, with approval of these dependent on the results of revieey
by ECOPETROL.
2.3   Obetive and Goals
2.3.1    Casabe
The initial subproiect objective was to i-ecover an additional 70.7
million barrels of oil by utilizing water injection methods, as part of
ECOPETROL'c 1ongtorm development programs, and thereby to contribute to tbhe
country's achievement of self-sufficiency in hydrocarbons.
Design work and production projections for this subproject were baoed or.
three in-the-field pilot tests, on laboratory analyses, and on ECOPETROL's own
experience of thts type of process in othor oil fields operated directly by
it.
2.3.2    Field development tinder associatioa contracte
A further project aim, in pursuit of self-sufficlency, was to  ticrease
domestic oil production by an additional 70 million barrels approximately ovor
20 years, by developing commercially viable oil fields under the system of
association contracts.
2.4   Prolect Description
2.4e1    Casabe
Physical aspects: The aim at Casabe was simultaneous but independent
development of production subzones or deposits Al, A2, Bl and B2 in each block
into which this field io subdivided, beginning with VI, VII, VIII, IV, V, III,
II and 1, using new- Injection wells in each subzone and producing via existing
wells, in a standard five-point pattern (four injection wells and a central
production well) -- thus, a total of 508 injection wells and 396 secondary
production wello.



- 19 -
Financial aspects: The total investment required for this subproject
was estimated at US$375.19 million equivalent at 1984 prices, of which US$70
million would be financed by the World Bank and the remainder with internally
generated funds and supplier credits.
Institutional resource&. ECOPETROL possessed sufficient managerial and
technical capacity to execute this subproject, and it made provision for all
additional requirements in both the staffing and training areas.
Other aspects: The basic subproject designs provided for the treatment
of waste waters so that environmental pollution would be avoided. Possible
extensions of physical plant and institutional capabilities were allowed for,
depending on the reaction of the field itself to the water injection process.
2.4.2    Field development under association contracts
Physical aspects: The association contracts proposed as part of the
project were between ECOPETROL and ELF AQUITAINE, OCCIDENTAL PETROLEUM, TEXACO
and CHEVRON, for development of the Casanare, Cafio Lim6n, Cocorna and Castilla
fields respectively, with total expected additional recovery from these four
fields of 70 million barrels over 20 years. The CHEVRON contract was
subsequently replaced by an agreement between ECOPETROL and HOCOL for
development of the Palermo field.
In each case, ECOPETROL was to participate by meeting 50% of costs and
receiving 40% of output directly, while the Government was to receive a
further 20% of output in royalty payments.
Financial aspects: The total investment required for this group of
subprojects was estimated at US$353.6 million, of which US$40 million at
current prices, or 11.3% of the total, would be financed by the World Bank. A
further 50% was to be financed by the associated companies, and the remainder
with internally generated funds and supplier credits.
Institutional resources: ECOPETROL possessed sufficient managerial and
technical capacity to meet its obligations under the association contracts and
to make provision for future needs.
3.    EXECUTION
3.1 Casabe
Construction was planned so that this subproject could be executed over
a maximum period of seven years from the date of loan approval (February
1982). During that period, the different blocks or stages were to be brought
into operation progressively until development of the whole field was
completed. At the date of writing, however, the field is not expected to be
in production in its entirety until September 1990.
3.1.1    Implementation
The subproject was designed to be implemented in stages and to move on
from one to another of the blocks into which the field is subdivided. Block
VI was scheduled for water injection in February 1985 but after various
revisions of work plans this operation was rescheduled to begin in June 1985
and actually did so.



- 20 -
Blocks IV and V in the south sector and blocks VII and VIII in the north
sector were scheduled for injection in February 1986. However, work began
early on blocks VII and VIII, in September 1985, and was then completed in the
entire north sector; injection of the other blocks began in June 1988.
Injection began on a part of block III in November 1988, on block II in
July 1989, and on block I on December 1989.
The above reschedulings were the result of an evaluation of the
injection-production system in the north sector, where injection work began in
June 1985 since the following types of problem reaction had been encountered
in this field:
-     preferential injection, which gave rise to channelings, this in
turn damaging production-well packing in some instances;
-     low rates of injection, owing to obstructions caused by swelling
and dispersion of clays.
These problems meant that completion of injection wells had to be
suspended, because of the need to change the type of shot used in gun
perforating from TNJ to DMLXXIII so as to achieve better penetration of the
formation. A study was also made, resulting in the recommendation that a clay
stabilization program be undertaken in injection wells in the south sector
before actual injection operations began.
These changes were made to improve the injectivity of injection wells.
Changes were also made in the workover methods used on some production wells
so as to improve control over sand output and thereby achieve more efficient
oil recovery.
3.1.2    Execution timetable
The original implementation schedule, which called for wells to be
brought into operation in stages, was organized so that this subproject could
be fully executed within seven years. Although construction began in early
1982, the adjustments which had to be made mean that the entire south sector
will not now come into operation until September 1990, making the
implementation period approximately a year and a half longer than initially
planned.
Figure No. 1 provides a comparison between estimated and actual
execution timetables where the following activities are concerned:
-     Drilling and completion of 500 injection wells and 53 production
wells: Finally, 508 injection wells and 83 production wells were
drilled; drilling operations came to an end in December 1987, and
completion of the wells in November 1988, as a consequence of the
change made in the type of shot used in gun perforating. Tae
increase in the number of replacement production wells was a
result of the discovery during the well workover stage that more
wells than expected showed mechanical damage that was impossible
to repair.
-     Workover of 324 production wells and purchase of offtake
equipment: This stage was completed in December 1987, but seven



- 21 -
additional workovers proved necessary following review of the
mechanical condition of the wells. During the course of this
work, 177 wells were packed with liner and gravel.
Creation of the system for collection, processing and handling of
crude oil and waste waters, construction of the new pumping
station, and extension of the pipeline to the refinery: Initial
planning called for thea. activities to be executed between the
1985 first quarter and the 1987 second quarter. However, building
of the pumping station and pipeline did not begin until the 1988
second quarter, the completed facilities being brought into
operation in August 1989. Ultimately, this time overrun had no
effect on the normal course of the subproject, since use was mads
of the old facilities in the meantime.
The contract for drilling and finishing of 14 water wells,
scheduled for completion in December 1986, was actually completed
in September 1986 with the drilling of only 7 wells, which are
sufficient to cover present and future needs. The water supply
lines scheduled to be built over a three-year period beginning in
the 1984 second quarter were actually built over a six-month
period beginning in October 1984. Building of the water injection
plant, originally expected to take two years, began in January
1984 and was completed ahead of schedule in May 1985. High-
pressure wster distribution facilities were completed in May 1985
in the north sector of the field and in June 1988 in the south
sector.
Installation of the automated data processing and management
system, scheduled to begin in the 1984 third quarter and be
completed in the 1987 second quarter, in fact began in the 1985
fourth quarter and was completed in April 1988. The chief reason
for this time lag was that the sites whtre injection stations were
to be built were not fully completed since they were to be built
in the same leveled areas as the injection wells and these were
not ready for 1984. Although the necessary equipment was
delivered on schedule, its assembly was delayed owing to the time
lag with injection of the south sector.
Interconnection and upgrading of the electric power system was
scheduled to take place between the 1984 second quarter and the
1986 first quarter. However, this work was carried out between
the 1984 first quarter and the 1987 second quarter, the longer
total period being the result of the fact that it was undertaken
in stages geared to needs as they arose during the course of
subproject implementation.
3.1.3    Presentation of reports
Throughout the subproject execution period, regular reports on progress
with works and execution of the budget at the various manageraent levels were
prepared by a Technical Coordination Coittee on which the various agencies
responsible for implementation were represented. These reports proved useful
in monitoring, coordinating and facilitating all types of activities involved
in the subproject.



- 22 -
3.1.4    Procurement
No major problems or constraints arose in adjusting procurement
proceedings to the requirements or methods imposed by external lending
agencies. Nevertheless, certain equipment and a monitoring system (OIL WELL
pumping units; SCADA data processing and management system) proved after
installation to have a number of defects, now being investigated in
conjunction with the suppliers. The defect in the pumping units is the result
of faults in the manufacturing process; with the SCADA system, there are
problems of communication between satellite units and the central processing
unit.
Given the nature of this subproject, 95% of the goods procured were of
foreign origin, the remainder being obtained from domestic suppliers, who
proved fully satisfactory. As to managerial and operations personnel, 100%
were Colombian nationals.
3.1.5    Costs
The investment costs associated with the Casabe subproject are regarded
as having been fully and properly recorded under ECOPETROL's accounting
system, which was put on a management audit and cost control basis during the
execution period.
As projected at 1984 prices, investment costs were expected to total
US$375.19 million; however, total actual investment from 1981 until December
1989 was US$260.17 million (at 1984 prices, without including financing
charges); 23.5% of this amount is considered as being in US dollars, with the
remainder in local currency. At current prices, total actual investment was
equivalent to US$267.15 million.
The lower dollar-equivalent cost of the subproject is explained by lower
contracting coste on well drilling, completion and workover operations, which
were budgeted at US$325.1 million at 1984 prices but on which only
US$192 million at current prices had been spent up to December 1988.
3.1.6    Sources of funding
Of the US$267.15 million at current prices invested in the Casabe
subproject, the World Bank financed US$37.1 million, the breakdown as of
December 1988 being as follows:
Tvye of Works                          IBRD Financina     ECOPETROL Resources
(in thousands of current US$)
Drilling and workover                     24,282.0              167,956.3
Construction services                      5,154.1               62,120.8
Consulting on enhanced recovery              241.5                  -
Pumping units 7e395.6
Total                                 37,073.2             230,077.1
3.1.7    Performance of consultants. contractors and suppliers
As far as suppliers are concerned, the most serious problema arose in
regard to the quality of the OIL WELL pumping unite and with the SCADA data
processing and management system. In both cases, the corresponding complaints



- 23 -
were made and action is being taken as indicated above. Neither of these
problems could have been foreseen, given the reputation and experience of the
suppliers.
As far as contractors are concerned, the majority of those working on
this subproject were Colombian firms, which were provided with the necessary
technical and financial assistance.
3.2   Field Development under Association Contracts
3.2.1    Achievement of obiectives
The components of this part of the project that were financed with World
Bank resources varied significantly from the original plans; also, crude oil
production figures were significantly higher than originally anticipated as a
result of new discoveries of reserves at Cravo Norte and substitution of the
Palervo-HOCOL contract for the Castilla-CHEVRON association arrangement.
These subprojects have brought Colombia tangible benefits in various
arenas, particularly in the hydrocarbon sector, where enhanced recovery has
enabled the country to meet its production goals, achieve self-sufficiency in
refinery capacity, and become a net exporter of crude over a short period,
with a consequent beneficial effect on the balance of payments from foreign
exchange earnings in very substantial amounts.
3.2.2    Administration of the subproiects
Although the plans for these subprojects were drawn up by the oil
companies designated under the association contracts as responsible for
formulating plans and programs for development of the commercial oil fields in
question and for providing the necessary technical and financial support in
each case, all such plans and the like were reviewed, modified and approved by
ECOPETROL through the Executive Committees created under the terms of the
contracts themselves. ECOPETROL was kept informed of and oversaw the
preparation of these studies, which were carried out and reported on according
to schedule.
3.2.3    Implementation timetables
Work implementation timetables were drawn up as part of the studies
which the contracting oil companies carried out prior to submitting action
plans and budgets in each case. These schedules were reviewed and approved by
ECOPETROL, and compliance with them -- with appropriate allowances for margins
of error -- was tracked by utilizing the monitoring arrangements provided for
under each association contract. Significant details on the execution of
these contracts are as follows:
Cravo Norte Association Contract: Entered into in 1988 with OCCIDENTAL
(Colombia) for oil search activities in Arauca Province, this contract led to
the discovery of such fields as Caflo Lim6n, Redondo, La Yuca, Matanegra, CaRlo
Verde, etc. Current estimates put reserves at over 900 million barrels, in
contrast to initial estimates of 37 million; similarly, in 1989, average
output reached 190,000 bpd (compared to an initial 5,000 bpd), with
approximately 100,000 bpd being exported.



- 24 -
With the proceeds of the World Bank loan, 18 development wells were
drilled, workover programs were undertaken, and services were provided -in the
areas of gun perforation, mud logging, electric power supply, packing, and
construction of production facilities.
Total cumulative production up to 1989 was 241.6 million barrels of
crude oil, of which 60% belonged to ECOPETROL.
The World Bank funds allocated to the financing of the investments
covered by this contract totaled US$68.3 million.
Cocornh Association Contract: Entered into in 1980 with the TEXAS
PETROLEUM COMPANY to exploit the Cocorn&-Nar6 field, located in Antioquis
Department. Current estimates put reserves at 105 million barrels, with
potential output of 14,000 bpd, higher than the figure estimated at appraisal.
World Bank loan proceeds were allocated to: lease of heavy earth moving
equipment, water line construction and pipeline maintenance, services of
support teams, maintenance of hydraulic and mechanical equipment, and road
maintenance equipment.
Total accumulated production for the 1984-89 period was 28.2 million
barrels, of which 60% belonged to ECOPETROL.
Casanare Association Contract: Entered into in 1978 with ELF Aquitaine,
HOCOL and Louisiana Land and Exploration Company. The following productior
fields in Casanare Province come under this contract. Caflo Garza, TocariAq
Barquerefia, Cravo Sur and Gloria Norte. Reserves are currently estimated at
40 million barrels, and maximum output at 20,000 bpd.
Drilling of a development well (Carlo Garza 3), with the associated
trials and completion works, was the main subproject component financed from
World Bank funds. Total output over the 1984-89 period was 13 million
barrels, while daily output increased from 3,000 barrels in 1984 to 8,500 -In
1989.
Palermo Association Contract: This replaced the initial association
agreement with CHEVRON for development of the Castilla field. After approval
was obtained from tle World Bank, loan proceeds were allocated for
construction of flow lines and general crude oil management systems.
Reserves in this field are estimated at 136 million barrels, and by
December 1989 total accumulated production was 25.9 million barrels, 60% of
which belonged to ECOPETROL.
3.2.4    Consultants
In their design and execution of subproject components, the operating
companies that were parties to association contracts relied on the support uf
specialized external consultants where they regarded this as necessary. llr'c
of these services was determined as a technical matter, and at no time wet it
a requirement imposed by lending institutions.
3.2.5    Procurement and suPDliers



- 25 -
Necessary materials and equipment were procured within Colombia and
abroad, depending on market availability. Preference was given to domestic
products wherever they met the standards of the petroleum industry itself.
There were no delays or other difficulties of consequence, and both suppliers
and contractors kept to agreed deadlines.
3.2.6    Investment costs
There now follows a comparison of estimated and actual investment costs
under each of the association contracts (refer to Annex No. 1):
Casanare-ELF Association: In 1984, investment costs under this
association contract were estimated at US$92.9 million, the objective being to
increase production to 16,000 bpd in 1988. By 1989, a total of US$57.9
million had been disbursed (not including exploration costs) and output had
been increased to 8,500 bpd. It is expected, once the transportation
component (the Los Llanos central pipeline) is completed in 1990, that output
will rise to tne anticipated 16,000 bpd. The works financed by the Bank
through this association contract required investment of US$750,000, the Bank
contribution amounting to US$451,400.
Cravo Norte-OCCIDENTAL Association: Although recoverable reserves were
estimated at 37 million barrels in 1983, they are now confirmed at over 900
million barrels. In the circumstances, it is not surprising that the original
estimate for investment under this association contract, namely US$105.4
million, should have been raised to US$424.2 million (not including pipelines
or exploration activities) when it was a matter of developing a field of these
dimensions.
The works for which World Bank financing was available required a total
investment of US$80.3 million, of which US$68.3 million came from the proceeds
of the Bank loan.
Cocorn6-TEXACO Association: As a result of the steam injection program
and the sinking of development wells, it proved possible to increase output
from 7,800 bpd in 1984 to 14,000 bpd in 1989, a figure which exceeds the goals
proposed at appraisal in 1984.
Total actual investments under this contract over the 1984-89 period
amounted to US$91.4 million (not including exploration activities), compared
to the initial estimate of US$149.8 million. By 1989, the works for which
World Bank financing was available required investment of US$727,600, with
US$482,000 coming from Bank loan proceeds.
Palermo-HOCOL Association: Development of this field, discovered in
1984 with proven reserves of 136 million barrels, required total investment up
to 1989 of US$44.2 million (not including exploration activities). The World
Bank financing obtained for this US$1,018,000 contract was not provided for
initially, since it replaced the Castilla-CHEVRON contract, which (did not]
require special funding.
3.2.7    Sources of funds
Field development works under the association contracts for which
funding wae made available through World Bank Loan 2476-CO required total
actual investment of US$82.9 million, of which ECOPETROL put up US$12.7



- 26 -
million from its internally generated resources, while the Bank financed
US$70.2 million.
4.    OPERATIONAL ASPECTS
4.1   Casabe
4.1.1    Start-up and initial output
Initial reeults achieved in the nortn sector of the Casabe field were
below the original estimates. Ensuing studies to analyze the results of the
injection process in this sector revealed both low injectivity and
preferential injection, owing to the heterogeneous nature of the deposits.
Once the problems were identified, necessary remedial measures were taken; in
addition, since similar problems were anticipated in the south sector, the
program as planned was modified to allow for clay stabilization in injection
wells, improvement of the sand control system, and change of the type of shot
used in the gun perforation process employed in completing injection wells.
Equipment installed (injection plant, collection and processing
facilities, etc.) is operating normally and in accordance with the
specifications embodied in the contracts entered into with winning bidders.
As noted already, the OIL WELL units and the SCADA system show operating
defects, but steps are being taken in conjunction with the suppliers to
correct them.
Both the initial and detailed design work for Casabe called for
selection of the most advanced technology availabie in the petroleum industry
for each component. Despite this, staff cutbacks were never possible, but
instead additional staff had to be recruited to operate the new plant and
equipment installed.
4.1.2    Institutional performance and develoRment
To be able to execute the Casabe subproject, ECOPETROL needed to make
only small temporary changes of the institutional type, by creating a number
of units vested with broad decision-making powers in the arenas of technical
control, accounting and administration for the duration of the execution
period. Necessary staff training was provided in-house, without any attendant
labor problems. For the most part, these units were staffed by ECOPETROL
personnel, and were disbanded once their missions had been accomplished.
With regard to the impact of ECOPETROL's role as executing agency for
the subproject, it can be affirmed that there has been no change in its
performance record to indicate that its efficiency has been adversely
affected. At the regional level only, 200 additional staff were taken on, and
a Petroleum Engineering Department (Casabe) was set up as an organ of the
Superintendency of Operations.
4.1.3    Increase in employment
At ECOPETROL headolairters, there was less than 2% staff growth
ascribable to thie subpr*.1Ct.  However, at the regional level (the Casabe
area), there was 80% gruvth compared to the number of employees at the time
execution began.



- 27 -
4.1.4    Recruitment and traininx of personnel
As far as possible, ECOPETROL followed a policy of recruiting staff from
the regJon. Its staff training policy was to provide the means and resources
necessary to improve lob performance in the technical and managerial spheres,
and there are plans to continue doing so in the future.
4.1.5    Management consultants
The services of managerial consultants were not necessary, since members
of ECOPETROL's own staff were fully qualified to formulate the procedures that
enabled the subproject to be carried out with managerial and technical
efficiency.
4.1.6    Overall evaluation
The operational indicators used to assess the efficiency with which the
subproject was implemented can be separated into two groups: those which have
to do with construction and commissioning of facilities; and those used to
identify oil field reaction to water injection.
In the first case, the factors considered were: works execution time;
and the cost and workability of each of the facilities making up the system.
Generally speaking, these provided a reliable means of measuring the
effectiveness and efficiency with which subproject objectives were achieved.
In the second case, where productivity was the issue, the indicators used from
commencement of the injection process, while they excluded operating costs,
were: volumes of water successfully injected into the oil deposits; and
additional volume of crude oil recoverable during the life of the subproject.
These indicators, when based on the preliminary results obtained, were
below Initial projections, mainly because of the difficulties encountered with
the injection process in the north sector, where injectivity proved to be low
and injection to be preferential because of the heterogeneous nature of the
deposits.
Once these problems were identified, necessary remedial measures could
be taken in the north sector; in view of their possible reoccurrence in the
south sector, arrangements were made for clay stabilization in injection
wells, improvement of the sand control system, and use of another type of shot
in the gun perforation process employed to complete injection wells.
4.2   Field Development under Association Contracts
4.2.1    Start-up and initial output
The works completion reports submitted by the participating oil
companies indicate that plans and programs were carried out by contractors
without delays or other difficulties of consequence.
Initial production figures under programs which included development
wells were fully in line with expectations. Programs under which production
facilities were built were completed on schedule, enabling the various
production fields to be put into operation.



- 28 -
4.2.2    Human resources development
Each works program required that Colombiar. personnel be given special
training during both the construction and operations stages. The
participating oil companies provided the required training and specialization
courses, with the country reaping excellent results in terms of human
resources develo;:ment. In addition, the very scope of the programs
necessarily led t:o the hiring of large numbers of additional workers, who
benefited from income earned through the project, with a resulting general
improvement in economic life.
4.2.3    Evaluation of installed capacity and output
All programit financed were parts of larger project components for the
development of prcoducing oil fields, and contributed to completion of the
installations and equipment required for that purpose. On this score, it may
be confirmed that crude production in each field which benefited from World
Bank resources (extept Casanare, where output was limited by transportation
problems) exceeded the anticipated levels calculated according to the
appraisal models or which the applications for financing originally submitted
to the World Bank were based.
5.    ECONOMIC RE-EVIALUATION
In order to allow an economic reevaluation of the project using methods
comparable to those tipplied during the initial appraisal process completed on
October 19, 1984, details of the basis for the calculations given in this
Project Completion Report are set out below:
-     Base year.  1981.
-     All values expressed in:  U.S. dollars at constant 1984 prices.
-     Rates of ir.ternational inflation:  As per Annex No. 2.
-     Price of oil:  From the Casabe subproject:  for 1981-85, the
assumed price is the average price of imported crude; for 1986-89,
ECOPETROL's average export price is used; for 1990-95, ECOPETROL's
export prices as projected in all its forward financial plans are
used; and for 1996-2000, the last (1995) price is retained in
constant dollars, but with sensitivity to price increases of 5%,
10Z and 15% starting from 1996 (in current prices).
Where the association contracts are concerned, different prices
are used for each contract -- depending on the quality of crude
produced -- up to 1990; these are then retained at constant value
up to the year 2000. Here also, sensitivities to price increases
of 5%, 10% and 15% over 1990 prices at current value are factored
in starting from 1991, and then converted to constant value
depending on projected inflation rates.
Output of crude:  From the Casabe subproject for the 1981-88
period, the figure taken is that of actual secondary production in
this field, including pilot-trial output up to 1984. For the
1989-2008 period, use is made of the projected secondary recovery
figure of 70.7 million barrels (Annex No. 3).



- 29 -
Where the association contracts are concerned, actual production
figures are used for the 1981-89 period in each case, and for the
1990-2000 period the projected output figures based on current
reserves are taken.
Operating costs:  Where the Casabe subproject is concerned:  for
the 1981-85 period, the figure used is the real average cost of
all crude produced in this field, since secondary output
represented only a small proportion of the total; for 1986-89,
real figures are used, but only those for secondary crude; and for
1990-93, the figure is projected to allow for domestic inflation
and converted into dollars at the exchange rates projected for
each year.
Starting from 1994, the following formula is applied to calculate
operating costs in accordance with the initial appraisal:
Fixed costs              0.3 * CPMA
Variable costs    -      0.7 * CPMA  *        PA
PMA
where:
CPMA     -  cost of production when maximum annual production is
obtained;
PA       -  annual production;
PMA      -  annual maximum production.
Operating costs would be the sum of fixed and variable costs, and
would include costs of transporting the crude.
Where the association contracts are concerned, use is made of
total actual operating costs for the 1981-89 period, and, for
1990, of operating costs as budgeted, distributed in the usual
manner as 60% fixed and 40% variable costs. Of the total of fixed
plus variable costs, ECOPETROL pays 50Z, but 60% of transportation
costs. Starting from 1991, fixed costs are retained at the same
figure at current prices, while variable costs are taken as
equivalent to 40% of the tariff calculated for 1990, equivalent to
US$0.79 per barrel. Transportation cost is taken at US$1.85 per
barrel. All this is converted to constant dollars, using the
inflation rates given in Annex No. 2.
Both the Casabe subproject and the association contracts have been
reevaluated on the above basis, with allowance for sensitivities to the price
of crude and to operating costs. The following are the results obtained:
5.1   Casabe
The economic results for a project life of 28 years beginning in 1981 --
and which allow for output during pilot-trial periods and the final enhanced
recovery figure of 70.7 million barrels (as per actual results obtained up to
1989 and projected results up to the year 2008) -- show the following
variances from initial forecasts (refer to Annex No. 3):



- 30 -
Prolected                Actual
Investments (in millions of             375.2                  260.2
1984 dollars)
Internal rate of return                   42.7%                  8.1%
In addition, sensitivity analyses were conducted in order to assess the
effects of possible fluctuations in crude prices, operating costs or both, the
following results being obtained:
Crude oil price increase (Z)         IRR (2)
0                          8.14
5                          9.65
10                         11.12
15                         12.58
If operating costs increase but the price of crude remains the
same, the results are as follows:
Increase in oReratina costs (2)      IRR (Z)
0                          8.14
5                          7.65
10                          7.14
15                          6.58
The fact that the final internal rate of return (8.14%) is low compared
to the figure projected at appraisal is chiefly a consequence of oil prices
that were finally considerably lower than those forecast (in the vicinity of
US$30 per barrel) at the appraisal stage.
Moreover, the final enhanced recovery figure of 70.7 million barrels
will not be achieved in 20 but in 28 years, as a result of the problems
encountered in the Casabe field itself.
5.2   Field Development under Association Contracts
The following table provides a comparison of estimated and actual
reaults:
CONTRACT     Prolected    Atusl   Erctuat E21  Aglf. '     ictual 19lI
Invtanment   (USS1O6)    Out41it   (barrels 10O)       ( I 
(US$10l)
Casanore-ELF         92.9      57.9        5.2         3.1       77.0      35.6
Callo Lim6n-OCCID.  105.4     424.2        5.0        69.8       75.0    1,027.4
Cocorn6-TEXACO      149.8      91.4        5.0         5.2       75.0      59.6
Pelermo-HOCOL                  44.2                    8.1        .         92.9
Castitts-CHEVRON      5.5            ... 1. '.3                  19 02
TOTAL               353.6     617.7       16.5        86.2      246.0    1.215.5
Investment through contracts in 1984-89, not including oil pipelines or exploration activities.
In 1989.



- 31 -
Actual output war higher than anticipated by 70 million barrels, which
generated US$970 million more in income than expected.
Actual investment costs exceeded the estimated figure by US$264 million,
chiefly because of the investments made in Cravo Norte, initially projected at
US$105.4 million. Under the other contracts as a group, actual inveatment
exceeded the projected figure by US$55 million, which compares to the
investment made in the Palermo field, not included in the original estimates.
At all events, the higher output achieved has offset the higher costs
and has generated very sizeable surpluses for the country.
Anticicated output
up to year 2000
(million of barrels)
Caoanare-ELF                             61.2
Caflo Lim6n-OCCID.                      903.8
Cocorna-TEXACO                           82.5
Palermo-HOCOL                           108.3
TOTAL                                 1,155.8
Projections of accumulated output under these contracts up to the year
2000 have been reworked, so that the present recoverable reserves figure is
1.156 billion barrels, as against the estimate of 70 million given in the
reports presented to the World Bank in 1983.
Annex Nos. 4 through 7 provide forecasts of net revenue flows under the
various association contracts. These projections cover total investments,
including those in exploration activities and oil pipelines, again using -- as
in the previous case -- a constant crude price from 1991 to the year 2000.
Comparison of actual and initially projected results shows the following
increasest
Contract            Proiected         Actual
Cravo Norte-OCCID.                 32.3            99.84      Annex 4
Cocorn&-TEXACO                     22.8          >100.0       Annex 5
Casanare-ELF                       34.3            86.97      Annex 6
Palermo-HOCOL                                    >100.0       Annex 7
Although analyses of sensitivities to price and cost increases were
conducted, the internal rate of return remains at quite high levels.
6.    CONCLUSIONS



- 32 -
6.1   Casabe
Justification for and obiectives of the subproiect: The reasons why
this subproject was undertaken in the first place -- high international crude
prices, low output of hydrocarbons in Colombia itself, the social cost of
foreign exchange used to import crude, the low risk involved in secondary
recovery, the magnitude of the volume of oil not recoverable using primary
methods, and the proximity of this oil field to the refinery complex -- were
sufficient in themselves to warrant its execution.
Following commencement of the Implementation process, there was a
significant drop in international crude prices which made the original focus
of the subproject less valid, although this was a situation difficult to
foresee.
Content and organization: The content, scopo and complexity of the
subproject were on a level matched by the results achieved through it.
Execution and operating results: The original subproject design was
sufficiently detailed and adjusted to the conditions prevailing in this oil
field, and the executing agency possessed sufficient technical and managerial
capacity to carry it out. Construction and procurement operations were geared
to the requirements of the subproject and at no time did the lending
institutions involved create problems which affected its implementation. The
administrative arrangements and personnel policies introduced for purposes of
implementation gave good results, and to facilitate the process new units were
set up and vested with broad powers of decision. At no time during
implementation was there evidence of faulty execution arrangements that might
have delayed the start-up of operations.
This subproject was financed partially by the World Bank, which was
furnished with quarterly reports on progress with both the works programs and
execution of the investment budget. The requirement for presentation of these
reports provided the executing agency with an avenue by which to exercise
adequate control over operations.
Evaluation of suboroject execution and results: At the present time,
approximately 50% of the subproject has still to be brought into operation.
Given the nature of the preliminary results obtained from the other 50% over a
four-year operating period, it would be risky to attempt to estimate final
results with precision and so be able to determine the success or failure of
the subproject. Strategic steps are being taken to ensure that the initially
projected goal of 70.7 million barrels will be reached, and expectations
therefore are that it will in fact be achieved.
6.2 Field Development under Association Contracts
The move made in 1983 for development of Colombia's oil fields wae one
which marked an entirely new period in the country's history as an oil
producer. The discovery of large reserves at Cravo Norte (Arauca) and those
at Palermo (Huila), the putting in place of crude oil offtake and processing
facilities and transportation Aystems, and the increase in production at
Cocorn& and Casanare converted the country into a net exporter of crude. This
wag achieved through investment of a total of USS618 million over the 1984-89
period, 50% of it coming from ECOPETROL. This effort made it possible to



- 33 -
produce 236,000 bpd in 1989 in the oil fields which were the subjects of
association contracts.
Since 1986, Colombia has produced enough crude to cover its refinery
capacity and export a surplus, which has enabled it to earn foreign exchange.
This revenue, in combination with the savings generated by the suspension of
imports of crude, has a very sizeable positive effect on the country's balance
of payments.
Accumulated output over the 1984-89 period amounted to 309 million
barrels, of which 60% belonged to ECOPETROL and brought it revenues totaling
approximately US$2.585 billion.
The reserves remaining in 1989 in the fields affected by association
contracts were estimated at 1.06 billion barrels, which will make the country
self-sufficient beyond the mid-1990s.
The tangible benefits obtained ensure that ECOPETROL will have the
necessary resources to continue its vital oil search and production programs,
while the royalties flowing to the country's oil production zones enable them
to increase their investment budgets and so to implement their social
programs.
In general terms, because of the direct revenues, royalties, tax
revenues, investments and operating expenditures connected with these
association contracts, the country obtains the benefit of 82% (on average) of
the oil produced through the arrangements embodied in them.



- 34 -
FIGURE NO.1
ENPRESA COL4NAIANA DE PETRO^EOS
PRODUCTION DEPARTMENT
PtLaed-
Actuat   -----                                                                    CASABE SECONDARY OIL RECOVERY PROJECT
_________ |   1978   |  1979   |   l9SO   r    XPLANNED SCHEDULE v. ACTUAL PROGRAM  _ _                     _ -_-I--   T
ACTIVITY        1 19781197911 3 1                         9 1      1982119833119841                     19851    1986    1i98l             1988         1 739        19
1 1234        123411234    11234    11234    11234    11234    11234                             1 2 3 4    1 234       2123         13 4         1 2 3 4
1. ?? study
2.  Project Director                       _
3. Pilot triats                      _                           _         _                             _              _                 _
(Deposits   Al-A2   -------- . -------     ----- ---   --------    -------                                           .. -------
£L  B)                         I_-                                                            --- --_--     -- -   _- - -- --_---    --
4.  Setection of                                                                                 .______
locations                                                                      ----- - .
S.  Iltegible
6.
10.~~                                                                                ____        ____     ____
..                                                                                         , ,-                                                                .. . -   -
1B .      a_                                                                                          _                  _  _ _    _ _   _ _
1 3 .                                                            __                                   .      .I
9.        D_,_                                                                                              ,,       _
10.       CS_                                                                                                             
11.
12.~~ a
13.       A                                                                      
14.       a                                                                                                                ,
15.                                                                                                _ ___  .   _
16__- -__ _              _I _                   .                      _                                  _    _          -            .                   _    _       I-



- 35 -
ANNEX NO. 1
EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE PETRCL'EOS
INVESTMENTS UNDER ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
DIRECT & FINANCED
(thousands of US$)
ASSOCIATION                  TOTAL
INVESTMENT      FINANCED      ECOPETROL
DRILLING SERVICES
OCCIDENTAL-CRAVO NORTE        9,963.4        4,981.7       4,981.7
TEXACO-COCORNA/NARE             431.6          215.8         215.8
ELF AQUITAINE                   559.0          279.5         279.5
SUBTOTAL                     10,954.0        5,477.0       5,477.0
OTHER WORKS
OCCIDENTAL-CRAVO NORTE       70,347.0       63,312.3       7,034.7
TEXACO-COCORNA/NARE             296.0          266.4          29.6
ELF AQUITAINE                   191.0          171.9          19.1
HOCOL-PALERMO                 1,131.0        1,017.9         113.1
SUBTOTAL                     71,965.0       64,768.5       7,196.5
TOTAL                        82,919.0       70,245.5      12,673.5
ANNEX NO. 2
EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE PETROLEOS
BASIS OF PROJECT EVALUATION
INFLATION
COST/US$
YEAR       INTERNATIONAL    DOMESTIC (%)       EXCHANGE RATE
(%)
1981                10.10            27.47                54.51
1982                 7.50            24.58                64.11
1983                 5.10            19.71                78.89
1984                 4.60            16.15               101.12
1985                 4.00            24.05               142.42
1986                 2.30            18.84               194.34
1987                 2.93            23.40               242.68
1988                 3.30            28.00               299.22
1989                 4.50            26.12               382.46
1990                 4.00
1991-2000               3.50



- 36 -
ANNEX NO. 3
EMPRESA COLOMUInAA DE PETROLEOS
ECONOMC EVALUATION - SECONDARY RECOVERY PROGRAM
(houles of USSI
mn        I982      I__a        1984      19          19n       1987     In0        1889no            tOS 1I    1982       =3       1"        t6       1"S       1997
SAIS Of CALCL.A1IOU
O. PCE PAlm
CU98T                              34.36      34.00      27.66     27.6       28.79      11.91    17.00      13.79    17.47    10.06     18.20    1s.9       19.60     20.20    20.00     21.63    22.2
CONSTANT 1184"                    40.68      36.03      28.83     27.69      26.76       11.18    16.08     12.10    14.70    13.00     14.31     14.36     14.31      14.32    14.32    14.32    14.32
WCKWBIML PAODUJCTIONA
ANNUAIL PrOOIcION FM                 300        700      1,000       6oo        200      4.300    7,.66      7,340    7.100    7.400    *.eoo    11.000    23.000    21,200   16.100   12.z6       10.000
ACCUMULATEDPROtOCTOWU                110        266       3a6        219         96       1.670    2,710     2.679    2.62    2.701      3.604    4,01S      8.386      7.738    6.612    4.698    3.842
Kw                                  110         366       780       940       1,044      2.013    6,400      9.09O   10,680   13,381    1666   20,.00    2.286    317,033   42,644   47.143   61,085
OUUA3INO COSTEt WS
CURRENT                             3O 3.00               6.00      9.90       S."        10.81     9.7      12.10      7.70     7.10     7.12      710       7.14       7.67     9.86     S."      1O."
COWnOTT 13641                       3.6         6. 6e0    0.37      9.90       9.62       9.97      9.02     10.70      6.62     5.78     6.00      6.39      6.24      6.37      6.00     8.63      7.01
TOTA WOESTMOIT
CUTPUS                             4.          6.424    27.293    60,726     71.681      8S.277   20.08      6.422    2.468
CoNSrAIT 1141                      6.*770      7.002    28.649    00.726     68.628      67.368    16.347    7.447    2.07.
NET RA Of cOuIrY FNUS 4COITANT 1864 US$1
9w91fm01T                          6.776       7.002    2".64e    60.726     69,628      61.365   1.347      7,447    2.070        0         0        0          0         0        0         0        0
ELArANO                            4,44        9.960    10.623     6.042      2.444      17.63   44,64    32.690   38.302   3n,272    0.133    57,63e   120.132   110.827   78.911    85.47   66.440
OPEUATUGCOSTS                        m         1.68      3.064     1.949        618      16.s62   26.207    28,666   16,696   1.6103   19.612   21.n62    43,987    41.633   33,416   30.014   27.029
NEW FLOW               11OFFUD    (1.72"        203   021.00)   166.823    667.202)      8.4441    1.404    03.4631   19,338   16.986    30.620    36,4    76.146    08.294   46.437   36,033   2".11
IET PRESI VALUE OF ROW OF COMUTM RD2US
..~CoMIT      ElY
RATEl     SmiShO'
0.00% 2OS    .1
10.00% O   18,611
oft                               0.14%          0
., ~a8h I    ad     mapr fo   99  .%



- 37 -
AM7EX NO. 3
WMPRESA COLOMSIANA DE PETROLEOS
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - SECONDARY RECOVERY PROGRAM
tmn.i o US$1
*t                         00l                        2002          203            74               0            200            20028                        TOTAL
BASS OF CALCtTLATfO
O          t Fig" WSSM
CUIl1BT                               23.17          23.88         24.82         26.89         26.69         27.62          28.48          29.43          30.61          31.68          32.tt
CONSTANT (1141                         14.32         14.32         14.32         14.32         14.32         14.32          14 32          14.32          14.32          14.32          14.32
3C         FtTAL P>ODUCIIOp            *,300         7.0           ts,so         6,100         6,400         4,600          3.600          3.000          2.500          2.400          2.300
ANUAL PtOlUCIO  WMN                  32.316         2.394         2.4S2         2,227         1.971         1.643          1.278          1.0t6            913            876           640
ACCItNUATED PRODUCTION 6W4.40                       67,33        56.e46        62.072        64.043        66.86          66.83          68.069         ss.970         69.84e         70.t8e
O-fAT8 COSTS WS*
CUmptBFT                               12.22         1320          16.67         17.20         19.24         22.47          27.84          32.34          38.82          41.30          44.21
CONSTANT 1184                           7.66          9.24          8.98          8.68         10.36         11.69          13.99          16.71          18.12          18.72          18.37
TOTAL t     mVESThIIT
CuIT                                                                                                                                                                                                 267.160
CONSTAMT 11384)                                                                                                                                                                                      200.160
MIET  t   7OF CO(t3Tl  ROD  ICOWSTANT 134 US0
WStiuSITffs                              0             0             0             0             0             0              0              0              0              0              0        280.186
EAWUIS                               48,.01         41.286        36.636        31,878        21,220        23.617         18,211         15.678         13.06          12,642         12,020      1.021,714
OPM3A1GCOSTS                          26.6310       23.766        22.290        21.342        20,419        19,200         17.877         17,198         16.636         10.402         18,267       544,664
NfR.FOWOFFUNDS                       22.871         17.62         13.246        10.538         7.801         4.316           414          41.620)        03,4711       (3.880)         (4.237)      216.86



- 38 -
ANNEX NO. 4
EAPRESA COLOMOIANA DE POTROLEOS
ECONOMIC EVALUATION ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
CONTRACT. CRAVO NORTE-OCCIDEN?TALsiELL
Ptumnd, of US$)
l334      1          to8        19?7      1988       1989      1990       1991      1992     1993    194        1996      l9        197      190       199n     2000      TOTAL
or cOF nATION  16
OL PRICE 53804
CUSIT                          0.00     20.73      11.91      17.60      13.79     17.40     17.60      18.11    18.76     19A0      20.08     20.78    21.61     22.28     23.04     23.86    24.69
CONSTAUT                       O0OO      26.70     11.19      10.08      12.19     14.72     14.24      14.24     14.24    14.24     14.24     14.24    14.24     14.24     14.24     14.24    14.24
aEM^00uc110NEWv1                 o        627      40390     68614      82464      89781    82126      82126    82126    79710    76877    64131    52306    43302    37706    328O0    29200            803886
OPIIATIN8 COSTS
FIXED                            0       6664      27994     38438      29318      28081    31448      31446    31446    31446    31446    31448    31440    3144a    31446    31440    31448            47G882
VA6SE                            0       3710      1s802     26026      19646      19107    20964      21363    21363    20720    19910    16874    13699    11274          9803      8841      7692    288439
ll.91W T                         0          0      31202     67798      56992      0S302    48243      48243    48243    40828    44984    37873    20720    28472    22149   1297    17163    688380
TOT^ACOSTS                       0       9274      77818    1218t2    104888    113070   100063    101042   101042    99000    96340    88793            8771    88193    03388    69284    68l1l   1333687
PFUWOUSIV!ESTMEn             786e      376638    773171      81261      62772      32091                                                                                                                1390s66
PEW8IVESTM9i                     0          0          0          0         0          0    43323      28800    19300    10000    15600    13000    11000          9600     8300      7200      7200     176123
WDAL    EIUTS                78G36    376639    773171       81261      62772      32091    43323      28800    18300    18000    16600    130O         I1O        9800     8300      7200      7200    160s781
Nt£  A   OF COWil FU.0  80UAMf  184 USK2)
UWVEMSST                     37819    167768    380886       40620      20380      16046    21662      12900      0s6o      8000      7700     060       G600      4750      4160     3800      38oo     703391
ENNEsO                          0       8133    271280    660874    468932    sl8446   701001    701801   701001   t81021   854204   547873   446842   370445   322113   280441    24846    7871072
oPAUcoSgt                        0       4469      39667       0930    651310      63304    44872      43508    42038    39782    37344    31907    27110    23434    20966    18848               8     664868
17186
SlCOMIETAXES a AS   E
ITTACE                           0       41 99     3s168    144468      87584    133350   169881    159919   100130   164032   147374   127430   126278    96829    83229    72301    64422    1735665
OTfF UMOF FUNDS              -37918   -1B323   -116es9    703771    4807s9   ¶S0388   794948    806112   810046   787898   758485   83e038   629611   437890   380235   330493    29308    8066682
ET PWTEse VALUE OF FL1W OF COMTM PFUtDS
0.00%   91068882
10.00%   32619,6
1S.00%    21903
Mt:                         "24%            0
n1  SLUDO   TOTAL SbESTIUETS A COSTS COVE5 BY ECOErTOL & PARTNEFt ICURREOT US$).
0 .-FA maKY T0 ECOPTRtL.



- 39 _
ANNEX NU. 6
EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE PETROLEOS
ECONOMIC EVALUATION * ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
CONTRACT. COCORNA-TEXACO
Ithoqunds of US$)
19814       186       1980       1997      l          19 99      1990      1991      1992     1993      1994     tsa6      s99       1n7      1999      1n9      2000     TOTAL
BASIS OF CALCULATION tII
OIL PPtCE tISAO
CWRtENT                      33.41      28.73      11.81     10.04      11.47      13.66    14.09      14.69     16.10    I5.a2     16.17    16.74     17.32     17.93    18.66     19.21    19.88
CONSTANT                     33.41     2K.70       11.10     14.06      10.14      11.47     11.47     11.47     11.47    11.47     11.47     11.47    11.47     11.47    l.47     11.47     l1.47
CRWE PROUCTION Cah/F          40e       4507       6483      5026       6125        5200     5262      e606      0814      6394     6847      4997     4420      3910      3469     3060      2700    82661
OPEATING COSTS
RXED                          5971      7029       6819      6220       5a90       6641      8206      9206      6206      0206     8206      6206     6205      6205      6206     9205     8206    106302
VAIABLE                       3991      5086       3.79       3480      3910        4381     4137       4780     6212      6030     4449      3936      3483     3081      2726     2411      2133    68076
TRANSPORT                      849       639        788       704        718         728      736        849      929       894      791       700      619       647       484      429       379     11667
TOTALCOSTS                   l0o00     13363      10468      9404      10494      l113o    1i077       11936    12343    12129    11445    10842    10207        9934      9416     9044     9718    182936
PREVtOUS INVESTMENTS        110168     24910      12972      6034      16476       11468                                                                                                              181607
NEW INVESTMEiTS                  0         0          0         0          0          0    27760       2600      2200      19o0     1500      1300      1100      800       900      600       600    40860
TOTAL INVESTMENTS           11i05      24810      12972      6634      18476        1t468    27750     2800      2200       80oo    1600      1300     1100       800 900            500       600    222367
NET ROW OF COUtTlRY FUODS (CONSTANT 1984 US$3121
INVESTMENTS                  66079     12406       8496      2817       8239        6729    13876       1300     1100       900      760       060      660       400       400      260       260    111179
EAMONS                       92930     70431      38641     44176      31189      36771    36133      41732    46499    43917    38846    34376    30408    20898    23794    21048    le6t6   972286
OPERATtN COSTS                6366      6481       4991      4369       4703       4982      4568      4718      4768      4616     4114      3762      3462     3179      2930     2726      2638    72146
INCOME TAXES A PARTNER
REUtTTANCE                   22632     14914       6384      7767       3486       4491      4282      6819      6873      0482     7663      6906     6123      631:      4a11     4302      4160    121184
NET FOWOF FUNaDS             66018     60469      30408     4470e      21734      29561    21974      41633    46514    44983    41644    36968    32629    2B930    26288    22376    19993   010146
NET PRESENT VALUE OF FLOW OF COUNTRY FtNDS
ojO0%    010146
10.00%    314403
15.00%    246591
20.00%    200830
I1) INCLWES TOTAL INVESTMEMTS A COSTS COVERED BY ECOPETROt.  P PARTNER (CURRENT US$).
(23 REFERS ONLY TO ECOPETROL.



- 40 -
ANNEX NO. 8
EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE PETROLEOS
ECONOMIC EVALUATION - ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
CONTRACT: CASANARE-ELF
tdhomft of US$I
1991,34     1 89      1980       1987       1988       1988       1980      1991      1892      1993      1994     1996      1998      1997       9s9     1999      2000     TOTAL
"9S5 OFCALCULATION III
OIL PFCCE USr$1b1
CURFENT                       33.41      20.73     11 GI      19.04      11.47      13.66     17.60      18.22     19.9S    19.61     20 20     20.90    21.83     22.39     23.18     23.99    24.83
CONSTANT                      33 41     25.70      11 lo      14.96      10.14      11 47     14 32      14.32    14 32     14 32     14.32     14.32    14 32     14 32     14.32     14.32    14 32
CRUDE PRODUCTIONO"   I        180e       1943       1936      2497       2191        3111      7300      8797      8140     e388      5074      3942      2994      2109     1670    les         88e     llo
OPERATNG COSTS
FIXED                         4414       2849       2077       1984      2804        3246     3487       3487      3487     3487      3487      3487      3487      3487     3487      3487      3487     66732
VARIABLE                      2042       1s99       1386       1322      1870        2183     2325       2780      2672     2018      1803      1248       911       867      4ee       389       276    28843
TRAFINS'OT                    2971       3039       3879      4603       4034        6756     4380       6278      4984     3833      3044      23e0      1730      1268      942       701       621     62885
TOTAL COSTS                  10327       7787       7041      7889       8708       11164    10192      11846    10943      9338      8136      7098      0128      5419     4928      4867     4283    136469
PRFEOUSLNVESTMBITS           96341      1680s       6773      113e4     38463       17017                                                                                                                181661
NEW8IVESTUMENTS                  0          0          0         0          0           0    17138       4300      3800     2800      2300      1900    10O    1800          1000     1000      1000     37938
TOTALWEWSTMENTS              06341      16603       6773     T1384    32463         17017    17138       4300      3800     2800      2300      1900      1600      1600     1000      1000      1000    219489
NET FLOW OF COUNTRY FUNDS (CONSTANT 1984 US1I21
INVETsMETTs                  47671       8302       2887      6092      17727        8609      8669      2160      1780      1400      1160      960       780       780      800       600       600    109746
EARNINGS                     32196      26329      12884     21684      13289       21404    82721      78679    69934    64881    43891    33889    24776    18122    13486    10034            7487    641226
OPERATING COSTS               6481       4036       3946      40.1       4207        8210     4603       4963      4627      3708     3100      2693      2143      1814      1680     1402      1286   68815
INCOME TAXES & PARTNER
REMITTANCE                    8206       2483        -97       2180     -1131         012    12821      18172    14000    10427       9387      7033      4019      290      2389      1744      1335    93541
NET RLOW OF FUNOS           -1¶720      10644       6266      14168      -079s       8298    62270      B4648    78283    80200    48728    37369    26801    18649    13784           9877      7036    468886
NET PRESENT VALLE OF RFOW OF COUNTRY FMDS
0.00%     46880
10.00%    188902
40.00%      22438
MB..                        08.97%          0
I1I tNCLaES TOTAL INVESTMENTS & COSTS COVERED BY ECOPETROL & PARTNER (CURRENT USSI.
(21 REFERS ONLY TO ECOPETROL.



- 41 -
ANNEX N0. 7
EMPRESA COLOMAOANA DE PETROLEOS
ECONOMitC EVALUATION - ASSOCIATION CONTRACTS
CONTRACT: PALERMO4iOCOI
bthouids of US$O
1981-84     1906       196      lee7       18os       188        1930      1991      1002      1093      1994     1995      1990      1997      998      1990      2000     TOTA
OASB Of CALCtaATO  III
CUT                            0.00      20.73     11.81      18.04      11.47      13.65     18.80      17.39    18.00     18.63     19.28     19.96    20.e6     21.37     22.12     22.90    2370
CONSTA_T                       0.00      26.70     11.10      14.86      10.14       11.47    13.87      13.87     13.87    13.07     13.87     13.87     1387     13.87     13.67     13.87    1387
CRUDE6 PRODUXCTO  £hf            0       1164       3841      4849       7968        81il    10950      109S0      9066      8870     8030      7191      8497      6840     6266      4709      4234    108202
a08Th8 COSTS
AmX                              0       1030       1067      2082       3188        4139     4346       4346      4346     4346      4346      4346      4346     4346      4345      4346     4346    60211
VARME                            0        692       1311       1388      2126        2769      2897      2891      2802      2342     2120      189a      1716      1642      1388     1243      1l1a     30030
T      TANSffr                   0        460       1498       1891      3103        3183     4271       4271      3843      3469     3132      2804      2634      2278     2050      1038      1851    42234
TOTAL COSTS                      0       2180       4778      6371       8417       10081    11607      11613    10790    10148       9697      9048      9048     8l86      7783      7476      7114    132476
F0VOUS E IMItTs                  0      23480       8002      0770      21717       24548                                                                                                                 88386
N7EWUIWEsTmsE                    0          0          0          0         0           0    17870       6000      4600      4:00     3700      3300      3000      2700      2400     2200      2200     50770
TOTAL 9VEStMENTS                 0      2340        8ees2     9770      21717       24648    17870       6000      4600     4100      3700      3300      3000      2700     2400      2200      2200    137166
Mn fLOW OF COIOETRYF RFNS (CONSTANT 1984 US$1423
fhdsTMTS                         0      11730       3448      4e80      10059       12273     es3s       2600      2250      2060     1650      1850      1600      1350     1200      1100    100    8ss78
E_AMUGS                          0      17799      25660     42830      48418       66797    80906      s9806    80824    72742    86867    68972    63284    47s88    43108    308 8    34726    886864
OPERATCP3COSTS                   0       1091       2386      2821       3986        4624     6031       4868      4390      3077     3824      3291      3012      2768     2631      2328      2147     6268)
COME TAXES & PARTNER
tEWTTANCE                        0       4283       6939      1o088     11428       12897    22404      22383    19841    17663    16802    14149    12801    11362    10420            80oe     8819    210026
nET FLOW w O oFS                 0       9280      26089     46791      44989       61897    98343    104830    94028    94288    76s86         8819o    814S4    66142    49796    44798    40298    36474:
fET PRESOfT VALUE Of RUW OF COWlTW FUN4DS
0.00%     064741
100O%     397013
16.00%    275184
20.00%     197892
70.00%      2480S
111 OCLWDES TOTAL PVEST4TS A COSTS COVERED BY ECOPETROL & PARTNER (CUMRENT USSI.
m  *s ONY TO ECOPETROL



- 42 -
PRO-CT COMPLETION REPORT
COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM I PROJECT
(Loan 2476-CO)
PART III BASIC DATA
1.   Related Bank Loans:
LOAN TnILE                         PURPOSE                                              YBAR OP    COMMEN71
APPROVAL
1807-CO. BogotA Power              Rehabilitation and Modernization of the urban        1980             Loan of UES87.0 million was closed on
Distribution Project               distribution network                                                  12/31/86. Project objectives achieved.
1953-CO. Playas Hydropcaer         Provide additional povcr and capacity to the national    1981         USS16.0 million was canceled from original
Project                            system in th: North Atlantic Region                                  loan of US$85 .0 million. Completion
expected on 03/3 1/91.
1999-CO. Village Electrification   Integration of the country's poorest and most        1981             USS6.0 million was canceled from original
Project                            backwvard region to modern lfe.                                      loan of USS36.0 million. Loan closed on
06/30/88. Project objectives achieved.
2008-CO. Ouavio Hydro Power        Increase supply of renewable energy and 15 % of the  1981             Loan of USS359.0 million was fuUy
Project                            electncity nceded in Colombia in 1988                                 disbursed. Loan closed on 06/30/90. Projert
objectives achieved.
2349-CO. Coal Explorution          Evaluation and assessment of potential economic      1983             US$1.7  tillion was canceled from original
Project                            exploiLaiion of coal reserves and institutional                       loan of USS9 5 mnillion. Completion expected
strcengthening of Carbocot                                            on 01/15/92.
2449-CO. Rio Grande                Facitities needed by 1990 to provide safe and reliable    1984        Loan of US$164.5 million under implement-
Multipurpose Project               water anid clectrcity to about 61.000 households                      ation. By Nov 1990 USS84.0 million have
been disbursed. Completon expected on
12/31/91.
2634-CO. Second Bogot              Achieve greater efficiency in EEEB and extend        1985             US$1.7 milfion has been canceled from
Distributon Project                electricity service to a larger segment of BogotA's                   original loan of US$171.0 million. By Nov
population                                                            1990 USS66.0 million have been'
disbursed.Completionexpected on 12/31/92.
2889-CO. Power Sector              Support Government's Reform Program in tho Power    1987              By Nov/1990 tJS$225 tmiUion were disbutad
Adjustment Loan Project            Sector and improve the efficiency of power                            from original loan of US$300.0 million.
generation, transtnission and disuibution.                            Closed on 09/30/90. Project objectives
achieved. Balance canceled.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 43 -
2.  Pro1ect Timetable
lam       Date Planned     Date revised  Date AcUmal
Identification  October 20, 1983  -  October 20, 1983
Preparation   Janiary 8, 1984  January 8, 1984
Appraisal Mission  February 12, 1984  -  Febuary 12, 1984
Loan Negotiation  June 25, 1984  August20, 1984
Board Approval  November 6, 1984  -  November 6, 1984
Loan Signature  November 27, 1984  -  November 27, 1984
Loan Effectiveness  December 20, 1984  -  January 25, 1985
Loan Completion    December31, 1988   -  December31, 1988
Loan Closing  June 30, 1989  -  June 30, 1989
Comments: Issues raised at different stages
1.-  Originally the project was identified by the Bank in May 1988 and
appraised in 1979. However, after Loan Committee approval in 1980, the
original project was not negotiated, since loan documents included financial
covenants not acceptable co the Government.
2.-   A new request to the Bank by ECOPETROL, in September 1983, was followed
by identification and appraisal missions in October 1983 and January 1984.
During negotiations in June 1984, the Bank and the Borrower agreed on the
following issues : (a) procurement procedures; (b) financial projections of
ECOPETROL; (c) foreign resource mobilization; (d) external audit; and (e)
price contingency and depreciation allowances.
3.-  In 1987, ECOPETROL informed the Bank that the Loan terms were expensive
and of its intentions to cancel the undisbursed portion of the Loan. After
several discussions, the Bank decided to close the Loan in June 1989 and
cancel the remaining loan balance of US$23.1 million.



- 44 -
3.   Loan/Credit Disbursements
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements 1/
(US$ million)
FY85   FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Appraisal Estimate      24.0   86.0   118.0   130.0        ---
Actual                  22.0   75.0    92.4   106.9   106.9
Actual as % of          92.0   87.0    78.0    82.0    82.0
Estimate
1/ A total of US$ 23.1 million was canceled from the undisbursed portion of
the loan
Date of First               March 16,
Disbursement                1985
Initial Loan Closing        June 30,
Date                        1989
Actual Loan Closing Date  June 30,
1989
Date of the Last
Disbursement                August 16,
1989



- 45 -
4.   Prolect Implementation Indicators
Appraisal
Indicators                            Estimate                 Actual
1)  Casabe subproject                    20,000 Bbls/d             25,000 Bbls/d
daily production rate               by 1988                   by 1989
2)  Association Contracts                16,500 Bbls/d            231,500 Bbls/d
daily production rate               by 1988                  by 1989
3)  Reserves to be recovered             140 million              1,181 million
Bbls/d by 1988          Bbls/d by 1989
4)  Revenues from exports                548 million              2,585 million
Bbls/d by 1988          Bbls/d by 1989



- 46 -
5.    Project Costs and Financing
A. Proiect Costs
Appraisal Estimate                         Actual
Local        Foreign                   Local      Foreign
Costs    Exchange Costs    Total    Costs  Exchange Costs   Total
(US$ million)                        (US$ million)
Casabe Sector          166.0         209.0          375.0    141.8        233.4         375.2
Recovery
Association Field    132.0           221.0          353.0    116.0        237.6         353.6
Development
Cano Limon-Rio Zulia  73.0            67.0          140.0      68.8        74.5         143.3
Pipeline
Technical Assistance   2.0             8.0           10.0       1.4         8.1           9.5
Contigencies            16.0          86.0          102.0      21.1        36.0          57.1
TOTAL:                 389.0         591.0          980.0    349.1        589.6         938.7
B. Prolect Financing Plan
Source                    Planned      Revised           Final            Comments
(US$'000)   (US$'000)  2    (USS'000)  2
IBRD/IDA                   130.0        130.0   13Z      106.9   liZ
Expenditure
Categories *
Co-financing               187.0         80.0   102         0.0    0%
Institutions
Other External             274.0        380.0   292        617.7  64Z
Sources
Domestic                   389.0        348.7   482        214.1  252
TOTAL:                 980.0        938.7             938.7
Expenditure Categories *         Planned              Final
(US$ million)
1) Drilling Services             48.7                  21.8
2) Cement, logging and           26.0                  77.0
perforating
3) Mechanical Pumps              21.0                   7.4
I:) Pipeline Equipment            8.0                   ---
5) Consulting Services            6.0                   0.4
and Training
6) Unallocated                   20.0                   ---
7) Fees                           0.3                   0.3
TOTAL:                                           130.0                 106.9



- 47 -
6. Project Results
(Indicators on project achievements, estimated and actual, and comments on factors
affecting project results)
A. Direct Benefits
Appraisal          Estimated at        Estimated at Full
Indicators              Estimate           Closing Date           Development
1) Cumulative Production    36.5 mil. Bbls        10.7 mil. Bbls       70.7 mil. Bbls
from Casabe
2) Cumulative Production    30.0 mil. Bbls        309.0 mil. Bbls       1.06 bil. Bbls
from Association
Contracts
3) Cumulative Revenues       USS545 mil.         US$2,585 mil.         US$23.7 bil.
1985-1989
Comments: At ECOPETROLS's headquarters there was less than 2% staff growth; but at
the field offices there was 802 growth from 1985 to 1989.
B. Economic Impact
Appraisal                    Actual
Estimate             At Final Development
Economic Rate of Return:
1) Casabe Secondary Recovery   42% ERR                     8.1% ERR
2) Aseociation Field            64% ERR                    100% ERR
Development Contracts
C. Financial Impact (where Relevant)
Without           Future with
Proiect             Proiect                 Actual
Other Financial     Losses of US$148      US$23.7 billion       US$2,585 million
Indicators         million in 1985       by year 2000          for period up to
1989



- 48 -
D.   Studies
Purpose as
Defined at                        Impact of
Appraisal          Status          Study
Studies
1) Casabe Reservoir    To manage progress   Successfully terminated   Developed computerized
Simulation           of Water injection   and implemented              mathematical model and
simulation capabili-
ties. Still being run
for predicting water
injection and reser-
voir production per-
formance
2) Oil Recovery Unit    Supervision proce-  Successfully implemented  The unit supervises
cedures and design                              all field develop-
capabilitias                                    ment projects
3) Technical Assis.      To develop long-    Successfully developed    Long-term plans were
term investment                                 developed for the per-
plan                                            iod 1989-2000



- 49 -
7. Status of Covenants
Loast Agteetnent    Covenant                                 Status             Conument
Section
3.01 (b)            Maintain adequate staffing and           Complied with      Tle institutional strengthening was carried
organizational arrangement for the                          out with the Bank assistance since early
Casabe component                                            1984.
3.01 (c)            Submit annual plans for developments     Complied with      There were some delays.
under Joint Ventures contracts
3.01 (e)            Hire 3 experta for enhanced recovery     Complied with
3.03 (b) (iii)      Submit quarterly project implementation    Complied with     Reports were submitted regularly.
reports
5.02 (a) (b)        Annual financial audits reports no later  Complied with     Financial statement and auditing were
than 4 months after each closing date                       received late.
5.02 (d)            Submit statements of Special Account to  Complied with
Banco de la Republica
5.04 (a)            Submit Five-Year Financial Projection    Complied with       Financial projections were submitted late
and needed adjustment.
5.04 (e)            Commit no capital expenditures that      Complied with
would adversely affect compliance with
obligations.
5.05 (a)            Debt:Equity Ratio 60:40 on revalued      Not complied
basis
5.05 (b) (v)        Annual revaluatio n of assets            Complied with
5.06 (a)            Current ratio no less than 0.8 during                       Observed 'or 1984 and for 1987. Not ob-
1984, 0.9 during 1' 85, and I. I thereafter                 served for 1985, 1986, 1988 and 1989.
5.07 (a)            Debt service coverage at least 1.4       Complied with
Juarantee Agreement Section - Nothing Specific for this project



- 50 -
8.  Use of Bank Resources
A. Staff Inputs
Sta8e of Proeot Cycle                                   Staff Weeks                               Sitff Weeok
(Planned)                                 (Rovised)
Through Appraisal                                       N.A.                                       21 0
Appraisal-Board Approval                                N.A.                                       13.5
Board Appovai-Effectivenesa                             N.A.                                       14.0
Supervision                                             N.A.                                      87 5
TOTAL                                                                                              136.0
B. Missions
A ..ry                                                         _   _                                      . 
|10/199                             5                 ECN..EGR,FNA,LOF,OTH                                             10      1/199.3
|fs9sgslkm                     2  19B4                              5                ECN.EGRFXA.LOF.OTH                                                5      3'19S4
App|.1I                       351964                                4                ECN,EGR.FNA                                                       7.5    4/1964
FoUtUp                         4119B4                               3                EC.N EGRKL0F                                                      7.5     /1 9.4
SW. s a im                    11/1984                              s                ECN.EGRFNA.LOF.OTH                                               10      111 904
Sup. ,11,                      &I985                                I                I.OF                                            I                 S      6'14i1
S| w.eim                       71 9695                              5                ECN.EGR,FS&LOF QL   H                           I                10 l     11985
| Suprik                       9'1965                               s                EC1-.EGR.FNA.0TH                                I                12.5    9'I9s1
|sr54ie                        611966                               6                ECN.EGR,FNA,OTH                                 I                1S      7/19.6
Swmr.kkae                     6M1907                                7                ECN,EGR.FNA.LOF.OTH                             I                IS      71196'
s|  nrisi-                     2V/997                               3                ECN.,LO.I0TH                                   I                IS s     .e
Sw.1Ak                         609i#                                6                ECN,LOF.FNA,LCGF. 0TH                           I                IS      1/19.0
|Sw^6                          6/19S9                               I                EGR                                             I                 5      i.
Spoixai: iAn Oicar- LOF: Ea&29.- EGI, Eoxua- ECN: F=i Amb1it FNA; 0O=- 01-
Status: I = No significant problems; 2 = Some minor problems; 3 = Some major problems; 4 - Some significant major
problems



- 51 -
ECOPETROL's Balance Sheet
(US$ million)
ITEMS                             1985      1986        1987       1988      1989
Current Assets                   417.5     574.7       726.1      742.9     798.4
Long Term Assets                 205.5     185.2       344.1      202.3     217.9
Fixed Assets                     973.9    1,145.0    1,105.0    1,032.9   1,242.3
Oil Areas                        410.2     433.6       385.1      371.3     329.5
Deferred Assets                   29.6      18.2        24.3       64.9      81.0
TOTAL ASSETS                   2,036.7    2,356.7    2,584.6    2,414.3   2,669.1
Current Liabilities              673.2     577.9       635.7      709.6     837.9
Long Term Liabilities            573.1     857.5       970.2      811.4     716.0
Other Liabilities                346.1     510.0       523.5      529.3     541.9
Total Liabilities              1,592.4    1,945.4    2,129.4    2,050.3   2,095.8
Capital and Reserves             444.3     411.3       455.2      364.0     573.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND          2,036.7    2,356.7    2,584.6    2,414.3    2,669.1
ECOPETROL's Income Statement
(US$ million)
[ITFMS                      1985         1986        1987         1988        1989
Sales                     1,291.2      1,329.1     1,803.3      1,591.8      1,862.8
Cost of Raw Material        886.1       491.4        488.9        515.9       544.0
Sale Expenses               47.1         51.1         60.4        52.7         54.6
General Expenses           349.4        694.8        824.4        817.2       740.4
Transfers                   (16.3)      (28.3)       (30.1)       (15.4)      231.1
Operation Profit            24.8        120.1        461.7        221.3       292.6
Non-Operating Income        88.1        112.3        100.8        88.9        152.1
Non-Operating Expenses     260.6        216.5        406.7        348.4       237.3
Non-Operating Profit or   (172.5)      (104.2)      (305.9)      (259.5)      (85.2)
Profit before Taxes        (147.6)       15.8        155.8       (38.2)       207.4
Tax Provision                  --        (3.7)       (61.0)        (3.3)      (85.4)
Net Profit or Loss         (147.6)       12.1         94.8        (41.5)      122.0
Source: ECOPETROL



