Docuumt of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Rape N.. P-3888-CO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANTK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt130 MILLION
TO
EMPRESA COLOMBIANA DE PETROLEOS
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA
FOR A
PETROLEUM PROJECT
October 19, 1984
This doent has a reticted distributio ad may be used by reWimts oy in the perfemance of
officialW dudes Its conent my not otberwise be dislosed withut Wodd Rank authrztin



CURIENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                          =   Colombian Peso (Col$)
Col$1                                  =   100 Centavos (ctv)
Col$79.50 (1983 appraisal
assumption of average)                  US$1
Col$1,000                              =   US$12.58 (1983 average)
Col$1,000,000 (MColS)                      US$12,578 (1983 average)
CoIS107.01                             =   US$1.00 (exchange rate effective
September 30, 1984)
Co1S1,000                              =   US$0.0093 (exchange rate effective
September 30, '"84)
WEIGHTS ANhD MEASURES
1 metric ton (m ton)                   =   1,000 kilograms (kg)
I metric ton (m ton)                   =   2,204 pounds (lb)
1 meter (m)                            =   3.28  feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                       =   0.62 miles (mi)
I cubic meter (m3)                         35.3 cubic feet (cu ft)
1 barrel (Bbl)                         =   0.159 cubic meter
I barrel (Bbl)                             42 gallons
I metric ton of oil (API 30)               7.19 barrels
I kilocalarie (kcal)                       3.97 British thermal units (BTU)
I ton of oil equivalent (t.o.e.)       =   10 milLion kcal (39.7 million BTU)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BD                              Barrels per day
XBD                        = Thzsa-r.d barrels per day
gal                             Gallon
kW                         =   kilowatt
MCF                        =   thousand cubic feet
TCF                             Trillion cubic feet
M!CFD                      =   Million cubic feet per day
W                              M= hegawatt
TOE                        =   Ton of Oil Equivalent
CONPES                  -   National Economic and Social
Policy Council
DNP                     -   National Planning Department
ECOPETROL               -   Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos
ENE                     -   National Energy Study
FEN                     -   National Electricity Development Bank
FRG                     -   Federal Republic of Germany
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OmCAL USE ONLY
COLOMBIA
PETROLEM PROJECr
Loan and Project Sumuary
Borrower:       Eppresa Colombiana de Petroleos (ECOPETROL)
Guarantor:      Republic of ColombiLa
Amount:         US$i30 million equivalent, including front-end fee.
Terms:          Repayment in 14 years, including four years of grace, with
interest at the 8ank's standard variable rate.
Guarantee Fee: An amount equal to 10% of the amount of interest payable by
the Borrower to the Bank will be paid by ECOPETROL to the
Guarantor.
Project         The project will consist of:  (i) a secondary oil recovery
Description:    program in the middle Magdalena Valley (Casabe field) which
would enable recovery of about 70 million barrels of oil,
reaching a peak production of 20,000 barrels per day in 1988;
(iI) field development under association contracts between
ECOPETROL and private oil companies, with a peak production
of 16,500 barrels per day in 1988. ECOPETROL participates
for 50% of the cost of the development; (iii) a 290 km
pipeline to move Occidental Association crude from Cano Limon
in the Llanos across the Andes mountains to Rio Zulia where
it would enter existing westward-bound pipelines; and (iv)
technical assistance and studies.
The project would reduce Colombia's dependence on imported
oil. The estimated value of incremental oil production under
the project would be about US$545 million in 1988,
representing 9% of the projected import bill in that year.
The proposed Bank lending would help alleviate external
commercial lenders' reluctance to increase exposure in
Colombia through the proposed B-loan financing. With the
concomitant aim of minimizing public sector capital outlays
to the extent practicable, private investors would play a
major role in project financing. The project would promote
continued sound petroleum pricing policy anc- investment
choices to favor efficiency of resource allocation. The
project would buttress ECOPETROL's operational efficiency and
functioning effectively in partnership with private
investors. It would also help to incorporate adequate
environmental safeguards into its activities.
ThliS docoment his a restric-ed disribution and may be md by rectients only in the perfonnc at o
thbei oMci duis Its coQnats may iot otherwee be disclosed witout Wodd Bak tbo



- ii -
Risks:          All available information on the Casabe field has established
it as an excellent candidate for secondary oil recovery by
water injection. ECOPETROL has taken steps both during the
preparation of the project and the pilot phase to ensure
efficient execution with safety features, and would be
assisted during the production phase by a reputable foreign
engierinubg firm. The risks associated with the association
field development component have been minimized as the
operators, who contribute 50Z of all development investments,
are experienced oil companies. The pipeline is subject to
risks normally associated with construction of such projects
in difficult terrain. Since a qualified and experienced
contractor would be in charge of construction, and the
necessary finance for it secured, delays would be minimized;
pipeline cost estimates include adequate contingencies.
Estimated Cost:l/
Local    Foreign    Total
-   US$ Million
Casabe Secondary Recovery                       166       209        375
Association Field Development                   132        2.21      353
Cano Limon-Rio Zulia Pipeline                    73        67        140
Technical Assistance                              2         8         10
Subtotal                                   373       505        878
Contingencies: Physical                          26         35        62
Price                           -10 2/      51        40
161        86       102
Total Project Cost                              389        591       980
Project Financing Plan:
Local     Foreign   Total
-   US$ million  -
IBRD                                                 -          130      130
Comercial banks/B-loan                               -           80       80
Export credit agencies                               -          107      107
Private investors/operators                          -          274      274
ECOPETROL                                           389          -       389
Total                                               389         591      980
I/ At mid-1984 prices. Does not include taxes and import duties, from which
ECOPETROL is exempt.
2/ This amount assumes continued depreciation of the Peso at a rate faster
than the local inflatioa rate.



Estimated
Disbursements:
Bank FY       85      86    87      88
(US$ millions)
Annual        24      62    32      12
Cumulative    24      86    118    130
Rate of Return:
About 43Z on the Casabe component and about 23Z or more on the
Association Field Developments. The rate of return for the pipeline is
expected to exceed 18Z.
Appraisal Report: Report No. 5084-CO dated October 19, 1984.



INIERNTIOAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ND DEVELOPMET
REPORT AND RECO NDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO
EMPRESA COLOMfBIANA DE PETROLEOS
WTH THE GUARANTEE OF THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA FOR A
PETOLEU  PROJECT
1.       I subidt the following report and recomuendation on a proposed loan
to Empresa Colombiana de Petroleos, with the guarantee of the Republic of
Colombia, for the equivalent of US$130 million to help finance a Petroleum
Project. The loan would have a term of 14 years, including 4 years of grace,
with interest at the Bank's standard variable rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY1/
2.       An economic mission visited Colombia in July 1982 and its report
(4444-CO) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1983. This
mission was followed by a small updating mission which visited the country in
February 1984. Also, a mission to review the external sector and agriculture
visited Colombia during April/May 1983, and its report (4981-CO) was
distributed to the Executive Directors in April 1984. This section reflects
both missions' major findings. Country data sheets are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.       The Colombian economy has become more resilient to external shocks
as a result of the structural changes that have occurred over the past thirty
years. Rapid economic growth has resulted in a substantial structural trans-
formation of the country from a predominantly rural and self-contained eco-
nomy to a more diversified urban, industrial, services and open economy.
Colombia has reached a point where population pressure on land no longer
increases much, if at all. Public sector investment and output now play a
greater role, primarily as a result of increased activity on the part of
decentralized agencies and public enterprises. Also, non-coffee exports,
particularly exports of manufactured goods, expanded rapidly and the range of
products sold abroad widened considerably. The growing urban-industrial-
services oriented economic activity and a rapid expansion of surplus labor in
rural areas attracted by higher wages and better services in the cities has
given rise to rapid rural-urban migration. This phenomenon, together with
the increased participation of women in the labor force, has been instru-
mental in reducing poverty and improving income distribution over time.
Financial and capital markets have evolved pari-passu with the growing needs
of the economy, and Colombia has become an active participant in interna-
tional capital markets.
I/ This section is an updated version of Part I of the report for the Cucuta
Water Supply and Sewerage Project (No. P-3869-CO of August 17, 1984).



4.        Real GDP per capita rose by about 2.2% on average during the
1950-83 period, with each succeeding decade registering greater gains in per
capita income. This was the result of lower population growth, which after
having remained in the 3.0% to 3.5% range during the 1950s and early 1960s,
declined dramatically after 1965 as a consequence of a sharp fall in the
fertility rate. Greater economic and educational opportunities for women,
rapid rural-urban migration, rising per capita income and increased effec-
tiveness of family planning programs contributed to the decline in fertil-
ity. Colombia's population is presently growing at an annual rate of 2.0Z.
As a result of the high proportion of women now entering childbearing years,
this rate of population growth is likely to continue until the. early 1990s.
5.        The combination of rising per capita income and expanded public
services has brought about a significant improvement in the welfare of the
poorest, in absolute and relative terms. As a result of increased sanitation
control, improved diets and better health care, the crude death rate fell by
over 50Z and life expectancy rose from 48 years in the early 1950s to 64
years currently. The child mortality rate declined from 11 per thousand in
the early 1960s to 4 per thousand in the late 1970s. Infant mortality fell
to 54 per thousand in the late 1970s, from about 124 per thousand in the
early 1950s. School enrollment ratios have increased substantially at all
grade levels since the 1960s and, by the late 1970s, 80% of urban children
aged 7 to 14 were enrolled in school. The poorest income groups have experi-
enced the greatest increases in electricity and water services in recent
years and have benefitted more than the average of the population from
services of the national health system. In spite of this progress, Colombia
remains largely underdeveloped, with a relatively small modern sector super-
imposed on a broad, traditional and economically poor base. Development has
been concentrated in relatively few areas of the country, public services are
still not available to many of the rural and urban populations and unemploy-
ment and underemployment are relatively high. The coverage of health care
and water supply requires further improvement, and adequate housing is not
available to a substantial portion of the population. Rapid migration to the
large and medium-sized cities has created urban development problems, with
attendant social difficulties. Moreover, in spite of the steady increase in
per capita income over the past 30 years, substantial efforts are still
required to improve and extend the benefits of development to the poorest
income groups.
6.        In large part, the achievements of the past 30 years were the
results of government efforts to stimulate the productive sectors, provide
the required economic and social instrastructure and establish an effective
institutional base in the economy. In the 1950s and early 1960s, development
policy favored import substitution supported by high tariff protection and
the provision of economic infrastructure by the public sector. It was during
this period that the country's major commaunication and transportation net-
works were developed and the transformation to a semi-industrial economic
structure began in earnest. By the mid-1960s, the prospects for further
import substitution were substantially diminished, and the country was con-
fronted with great economic uncertainty, arising from the fact that economic
activity and the balance of payments were heavily influenced by developments
in the world coffee market. In order to ease this constraint, during 1967
the authorities adopted an outward-looking development strategy, expanding
and diversifying exports and, among the export markets, increasingly tapping



the Andean Group countries. Export promotion policies, including frequent
small exchange rate devaluations, export tax rebates and other export incen-
tives were introduced and the authorities began lowering tariffs somewhat and
freeing capital markets from controls as means of raising efficiency and
increasing the competitiveness of Colombian goods in external markets. These
measures were highly successful in relieving the foreign exchange constraint
and stimulating growth and employment. However, by the mid-1970s the economy
was once again experiencing difficulties caused primarily by the world
recession and by excessive Central Bank financing of the Central Government's
overall fiscal deficit.
Recent Economic Developments
7.        In late 1974, the Government introduced a wide range of measures
designed to correct the structural and policy weaknesses prevailing in the
economy at that time. Before these reforms were fully effective, the economy
was subjected to strong inflationary pressures arising from a sharp increase
in world coffee prices. The increased receipts from coffee exports, together
with some official surrender of foreign exchange from illegal exports, caused
a turnabout in the balance of payments. Incomes rose rapidly and stimulated
aggregate demand; inflation accelerated. Economic growth also accelerated,
and unemployment fell substantially, both in rural and urban areas. Largely
as a consequence of increased coffee tax revenues, the public finances
generated overall surpluses averaging about 1Z of GDP during the 1976-78
period and, by the end of 1979, net official international reserves had risen
to about US$4.1 billion, equivalent to about 12 months imports of goods and
non-factor services.
8.        while beneficial in many respects, the foreign exchange boom had a
somewhat negative impact on the evolution of the Colombian economy, largely
as a consequence of the need for measures to stabilize the economy. Public
investment was curbed, thereby delaying some badly needed additions to econo-
mic and social infrastructure. The rate of currency devaluation was slowed,
and the conversion of export receipts into pesos was delayed to moderate the
growth of domestic demand, with adverse effects on export expansion and
diversification. Also, the Government was compelled to maintain high reserve
requirements and expand controls over credit thereby reducing, in real terms,
the financing available to the private sector via the official capital
market.
9.        The stabilization measures were virtually unchanged from early 1977
through 1979 and were partially successful in restraining aggregate demand
growth, but relatively high inflation persisted. In response to the effects
of increasing restraint on aggregate demand and the troublesome financial
market distortions caused by inflation and the extended period of monetary
restraint, the authorities began in late 1979 to adjust the stabilization
program. The rate of peso devaluation was advanced to increase export incen-
tives and reduce borrowing abroad, and in early 1980, credit restraints were
relaxed by lowering reserve requirements. At the same time, interest rates
on time deposits captured by commercial banks and development finance compa-
nies-and on lending therefrom-were freed from controls. To offset the
inflationary effects of these measures, the authorities further liberalized
import payments and adopted the policy, supported by the emission of new
short-term certificates, of not expanding the subsidized selective credit



- 4 -
operations of the Central Bank in excess of the resources captured from
private savings for this purpose.  The authorities also increased the sur-
veillance and control of the illegal export trade. The effects of the above
measures were not immediately noticeable. Real GDP growth declined to 4Z in
1980, unemployment started to creep up, and inflationary pressures continued.
10.       In 1981 the economic situation took a turn for the worse and the
problems bave continued through 1983. Real GDP growth which had decelerated
to 2.5Z in 1981 fell to 0.9Z in 1982 and to about 0.8Z in 1983. Agricultur l
output was hard-hit both in 1982 and 1983 as the production of cotton, oil
seeds and other agricultural commodities dropped as a result of low
international prices, reduced fertilizer use and adverse weather. Industrial
activity deteriorated on account of depressed aggregate demand, and
unutilized capacity continued to increase, particularly in manufacturing.
After experiencing a surplus for six years, a deficit emerged in the resource
balance in 1981 of about US$1.5 billion, which continued at roughly this
level through 1983. These deficits resulted mainly from a drop in exports by
about 9Z annually in real terms: major reasons were the slowdown in world
demand, a major devaluation and the introduction of import restrictions in
Venezuela--a major trading partner-in 1983, and the reduction in Colombia's
coffee export quota in the International Coffee Agreement significantly below
the 1981 coffee export level. Net foreign exchange reserves declined by
about US$1,800 million in 1983 and Colombia's net international reserves were
equivalent to about 6.7 months of imports of goods and non-factor service at
year end. To a significant extent, the fall in foreign exchange reserves was
caused by the difficulties in tapping capital markets which resulted from the
external debt problems of other countries. Inflation slowed down in 1983 to
a 20% average for the year, down from 282 in 1981 and 25Z in 1982.
11.       Since 1983 the Government has been introducing a series of measures
designed to stimulate aggregate demand and to initiate the adjustment process
required to expand and diversify non-coffee exports, stimulate domestic
production, and resume economic growth. The rate of peso devaluation is
being accelerated with a view to regaining the 1975 real exchange rate during
1985; the housing construction industry is being provided with incentives to
mobilize an increasing amount of resources; and open market operations are
being discontinued to increase liquidity in the economy. Temporary import
restrictions are being introduced to arrest the falling foreign exchange
reserves; these are to be lifted once the real exchange rate achieves its
equilibrium level and exports respond fully to this incentive. The
stabilization measures introduced in 1977 have been gradually dismantled,
followed by government legislation, measures and regulations designed to
reduce the fiscal deficit and ease distortions and restrictions in the
financial system. While these measures have been in the right direction,
there is need for significant additional efforts, as recognized by the
authorities. In particular, the country continues to be affected by the
tight international capital market in 1984: a sharp reduction in the credit
lines available to Colombia resulting from the overall debt problem of Latin
America has contributed further declines in foreign exchange reserves. The
continuing pressure on the external sector has brought to the Government's
attention the need for further and timely actions to reverse the current
trends. Such a policy package would need to include vigorous export
promotion, stepped-up external resource mobilization, promotion of foreign
investment, assistance to resolve private sector financial difficulties and
fiscal and monetary measures for adjustment.



-5-
Development Strategy
12.       The Government's strategy for accomplishing its development
objectives is set forth in the 1983-86 National Development Plan. This
strategy emphasizes growth with equity with the purpose of expanding the
benefits of development to Colombia's population. This is to be achieved
through increasing participation of all social and regional groups in the
process of economic growth. The strategy also places high priority on the
resumption of growth while maintaining price stability. The strategy
strengthens the previous emphasis on export promotion as a means of
supplementing domestic demand and assuring balance of payments stability, and
on policy measures designed to increase economic efficiency and raise
institutional capacity. It proposes a continuation of the large effort in
public investment, giving high priority to energy, agriculture and industrial
projects and to the provision of transport infrastructure. Economic
decentralization, regional autonomy and the uniting of regional growth
centers through improved transport, communication and financial links are
directed towards creating en integrated national market. The development
plan's strategy also places emphasis on the promotion of both small-scale and
commercial agriculture as a means of diversifying and increasing exports,
assuring adequate domestic food supplies, holding down inflation and
contributing to the Government's nutrition and welfare goals. Industrial
policy objectives are to provide an environment of certainty, along with
adequate credit and infrastructure, so that entrepreneurs are encouraged to
invest and expand output. Because of its benefits in opening foreign
markets, creating employment and bringing in new technology, private foreign
investment is to be encouraged. The financial sector is also to be
strengthened. The Government's approach to helping the poor takes on a new
orientation in the development plan's strategy. Its efforts are focused upon
improving efficiency in the use of resources, broadening coverago- of services
and strengthening the social service institutions. Programs in the housing,
health, and education sectors are to be better focused and integrated, and
selected low income and disadvantaged groups, such as workers in the informal
sector, children and unemployed youth, are singled out for special
attention. Combined with a significant expansion in construction of
low-income housing and the extension of the Integrated Rural Development
(DRI) program, the new directions given to social programs are expected to
raise significantly the welfare of low income groups in Colombia.
13.       After many years of being a net petroleum exporter, Colombia
became a net oil importer in the mid 19?0s and, in recent years, 10-15% of
merchandise imports have been accounted for by petroleum. In the absence of
rapid energy development, energy shortages could become a major constraint on
growth later in this decade. Resolution of the energy problem depends on the
country's success in developing its abundant domestic energy resources-
hydroelectricity, coal and natural gas-and also upon increasing petroleum
exploration and development. The strategy for doing this will require energy
pricing policies that balance consumption with energy resource availabili-
ties, a least cost program of investments, sufficient domestic and external
financing for these investments, strengthened sector institutions, improved
program execution capability and rapid carrying out of investments. Although
planning and policy making have improved substantially in many energy sector
institutions in recent years, further improvements in overall sector planning
and coordination are needed. A recently completed National Energy study



- 6 -
carried out by the Government is providing the basis for seeking such
improvements. Additionally, recent oil pricing decisions have gone a
considerable way towards providing the correct signals for regulating
consumption and encouraging production. The prices paid to producers
(primarily foreign companies) for "incremental" and 'new" crude provide
adequate production incentives, and the retail prices of petroleum products
have been increased substantially in recent years, reflecting, on the whole,
international levels.
14.       Colombia's agricultural growth performance has slowed down markedly
in recent years. Both demand and supply constraints have been responsible
for this. To increase output, utilization of additional acreage for cultiva-
tion is projected to involve greater investment than in the past, implying
the increasing need to pursue options of yield improvements. In addition to
productivity gains, additional land could and should be brought under irriga-
tion and/or drainage for more intensive cultivation. Watershed management
and forestry development should also become integral parts of a long-term
strategy for growth and for conserving the natural resources. The generation
and delivery of technological innovations should receive priority in the
array of long-term measures. Research and extension institutions are in need
of rehabilitation and strengthening. Marketing constraints also need to be
relaxed if higher production is to be sustained. Sufficient credit availabi-
lity for production and marketing is also essential. Recently the Government
initiated a major policy redirection to address these issues and the develop-
ment plan assigns a key role to future investments in the sector.
15.       Colombia's high transportation costs and inadequate services could
become a constraint on economic growth and exports, affecting particularly
the development of the country's vast coal reserves and its agriculture. The
State Railway is in poor condition and the road network needs maintenance and
rehabilitation. The authorities have taken steps to improve the country's
infrastructure and the development plan assigns an important share of future
investments to the sector. An important part of this effort is the ongoing
Rural Roads, Railway Rehabilitation, and Highway Sector Projects.
Investment and its Financing
16.       An increase of public sector investment will be required in the
next several years to carry out the development strategy outlined in the
development plan. Over the 1984-86 period, such investment is expected to
increase by about 2% p.a. in real terms. The energy and transportation
sectors are expected to account for the bulk (about half) of this investment;
however, real increases in investment are also expected in the small- and
medium-scale agriculture, housing, nutrition and health, industry (including
mining), water and sewerage, and education sectors. Overall, public fixed
investment is projected to average 7% of GDP during the 1984-86 period, and
is expected to total Col$890 billion. Private investment will have to
increase also during this period to provide the goods and services required
by the expanding economy.
17.       The execution of the investment program will demand a major
resource mobilization effort on the part of Colombia's public sector. In
particular, the size of the overall Central Government deficit will have to
be reduced significantly. The buoyancy of the tax system (excluding coffee



tax revenues and receipts from earnings on foreign exchange holdings), which
has declined in recent years, will have to be increased through new taxes and
better tax administration; the growth of expenditures will have to be
checked; resources will have to be used more efficiently; and the charges
levied for public services will have to be raised substantially in real
terms. A package of measures to tackle some of these issues was approved by
Congress in 1983, including measures related to broadening the base and
increasing the average rate of the sales tax, increasing other indirect
taxes, reducing the earmarking of revenues, reducing tax evasion, and
strengthening tax administration. Additional actions on both revenues and
expenditures have been proposed to Congress, all of which, when approved, are
expected to have a significant effect in reducing the fiscal deficit in
1985. Since this effort is likely to coincide with increased private sector
demand for investment resources, the importances of measures to expand
domestic savings cannot be over-stressed. The recent capital market
liberalization should encourage savings. A significant increase in voluntary
private savings is not likely, however, as long as inflation remains high.
Consequently, stabilization remains a sine qua non for the country's future
growth and development.
Growth and Balance of Payments Prospects
18.       Given the country's strong resource base, sound economic management
and the efforts mounted to realize the projected increases in capital inflows
during 1984-86, Colombia's growth prospects for this decade are reasonably
good and significant advances in economic welfare are anticipated. However,
because of the decline in coffee prices from the previous boom levels and the
weakening in exports caused by the recession and by import restrictions in
some of traditional Colombian markets, in addition to the need to increase
imports to develop the country's resource potential and restore higher
economic growth, the current account deficit of the balance of payments is
projected to average US$1.7 billion per year during 1984-86, equivalent to
about 5% of GDP. Almost half of the deficit is projected to be financed by
reducing foreign exchange reserves and by direct foreign investment. By the
end of this period, net official international reserves would have fallen to
a level of about three months of imports of goods and non-factor services (a
level which is adequate for Colombia) without prejudice to the country's
creditworthiness. This should be sufficient to support an average growth of
real GDP of 2% during this period. Beyond 1986, the current account deficit
should improve as a result of increasing export proceeds (jparticularly coal)
and a leveling-off of imports resulting from increased doMqstic production of
petroleum. The current account deficit would gradually fall to about 1.5% of
GDP by 1990. To achieve real GDP growth of about 2% per annum during
1984-86, gross fixed investment will have to be maintained at 19% of GDP to
complete existing long-gestating projects in the energy and mining sector,
and to avoid too large an increase in foreign indebtedness, gross national
savings would need to average about 18% of GDP.
19.       Gross external capital requirements are projected to total about
US$7,772 million in current prices for the 1984-86 period, for an annual
average requirement of about US$2,591 million. Net foreign investment is
expected to account for US$825 million during 1984-86. This should provide
about 11% of the gross external financing required. Of the remaining 89%
(US$6,947 million) about US$5,271 million, has been either committed or is
expected to be secured from multilateral and bilateral sources, while the



-8-
difference, US$1,676 minlion, will need to be borrowed abroad from financial
markets and suppliers' credit sources. At the end of 1983, Colombia's public
and publicly guaranteed external debt disbursed and outstanding amounted to
US$6.9 b'.llion, equivalent to 18.52 of GDP. The Bank/IDA share of this
external debt was 22Z. Reflecting the recently increased Colombian borrowing
from comrcial sources, this share is expected to remain at about 20% during
1984-86.   The public debt service ratio at the end of 1983 was 202 and is
expected to climb to 282 by 1986, peak at about 282 in 1988 and then decline
gradually to 23% in 1990. The World Bank's share in public debt service is
expected to remain below 25Z during 1984-86. With continued sound economic
and financial management, Colombia is expected to maintain its
creditworthiness through and beyond the 1984-90 period.
PART 1I - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COLOMBIA
20.       The proposed loan, the 109th to be made to Colombia, would bring
the total amount of Bank loans to Colombia to US$4,251.9 milion (net of
cancellations). Of this amount the Bank held, as of March 31, 1984, US$
2,981.3 million; TDA made one credit of US$19.5 million for highways in
1961. Disbursements have been completed on 66 loans and the IDA credit.
Before 1979, disbursements averaged US$86 million equivalent per year, but
had increased to to US$248 million in FY82 and US$286 million in FY84,
reflecting the higher level of commitments in the late 1970s. While
disbursements in Colombia have been slower than those recorded in the Latin
Aerican Region for similar projects, concentrated efforts to overcome
problems to initiate project execution have resulted in a significant
increase in disbursements during FY83 and FY84. Improving performance of
social sector institutions in the execution of Bank-financed projects, the
--adual containment of inflationary pressures and the effects of the
xe-cently-introduced fiscal reforms, which should improve counterpart funding,
all point to a higher level of disbursements in the future. IFC has made
investments and underwriting commitments of US$119.9 million in 29
enterprises and as of March 31, 1984, it held US$48.0 million. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans, the IDA credit and IFC
investments as of March 31, 1984.
21.       Since the initial loan was made in 1949, Bank lending to Colombia
has become quite diversified. Although through the mid-1960s, 88Z of the
loans made were for power or transport, since then the Bank has broadened its
participation in lending for agriculture and industry, and initiated lending
for irrigations and watershed management, education, water supply, telecommu-
nications, urban development and nutrition. By the late 1970s, 53% of the
loans made to Colombia were for projects other than transport and power. Of
the loans made since 1978, 39Z were for power and transport, 16% each for
agriculture and industrial projects, 7% each for urban development and water
supply, 4% each for telecommunications and irrigation, and 72 for education,
nutrition and multipurpose projects. The diversification was indeed a
desirable aim as it helped provide close contact with a broader range of
Colombia's evewlopment problems. The experience gained has served to
identify areas in which the Bank's role can only be a marginal one and,
thus, to enable lending to be focussed upon sectors in which the Bank's
presence can have a meaningful impact.
22.       The Bank lending to Colombia in FY84 consisted of loans for power
sector financing, coal exploration, earthquake reconstruction, agricultural



- 9 -
diversification and multipurpose water supply and electricity, totalling
US$464.1 million. In addition, the Bank participated in two B-loans for a
total of 142 of the loans, or US$28.75 million. In response to Colombia's
having undertaken a gradual adjustment process to expand and diversify
non-coffee exports and resume growth, the thrust of Bank support has shifted
towards strengthening the Government's programs, enhancing the effectiveness
of resource use, and emphasizing quick-yielding investments. Loans recently
approved by the Board and a number of operations at an advanced stage of
preparation reflect this overall direction. Regarding infrastructural
investments, the FY85 program stresses rehabilitation, moderaization and a
more intensive use of facilities already in place, as in the cases of
recently approved water supply and electricity distribution projects. The
recently approved power development finance project was entirely geared
toward completion of ongoing projects.   Similarly, increased emphasis has
been placed on directly productive operations, such as the already-approved
agricultural diversification and small-scale industry projects. The project
described in this report and the development banking project which will be
considered by the Board soon fall in that category. Beyond FY85, work is
also underway on projects for further petroleum development, electric power,
development finance, agricultural extension and marketing, fertilizers, and
irrigation for possible consideration by the Executive Directors during the
next two years.
23.       The proposed Bank lending is consistent with the Government's
development strategy. Future loans would finance agriculture and industry to
support the Government in its efforts to raise overall productivity, income
and employment, increase and diversify exports, and help develop renewable
sources of energy through lending for bydropower and arranging associated
co-financing. Closely related to these objectives would be Bank lending for
infrastructure that would facilitate the increasing inter-regional flow of
goods and services. Finally, several loans are being prepared in support of
the Government's efforts to help the poorer segments of the Colombian
population. Proposed lending for further rural development, agricultural
credit, water supply and sewerage, and irrigation projects are principally
designed to improve the standard of living of the poor.
24.       The operations of external lenders in Colombia are shown in
Annex I. While IBRD, IDB and bilateral sources provided about 75% of total
external financing to Colombia in the 1961-72 period, their share had
decreased since then to some 49% for the 1975-82 period and is expected to
decline further to about 40% of external capital requirements during the
eighties. Like the Bank, IDB has given increased emphasis to energy-related
projects, in addition to those for low-cost housing, urban and rural develop-
ment, agrarian reform, university education, water supply, rural electrifica-
tion and land erosion control, which are aimed at improving living standards
of the lower-income population. In the future, it proposes to assist
Colombia in developing sources of domestic energy and in expanding productive
sector activities to help generate increased employment. USAID has supported
programs in education, rural development and small farm development, but is
phasing out its program in Colombia. The Government of Canada, the Federal
Republic of Germany and the Netherlands have also provided conces-'onal
financing for basic needs and regional integration projects.



- 10 -
PART III: THE ENERGY SECTOR - PETROLEUM
Energy Resources and Policies
25.       Colombia is rich in energy resources, particularly hydroelectricity
and coal. Its reserves of oil and natural gas are modest by international
standards, yet significant at the national level.  In terms of known re-
serves, about 53Z of Colombia's primary energy potential lies In hydroelec-
tricity, 45% in coal, and only 2% in oil and natural gas. Even the high
share of hydroelectricity understates its importance because it is a renew-
able resource.  In contrast, production of commercial energy relies primarily
upon oil products (41%) and less on hydroelectricity (25Z), natural gas
(22Z), and coal (12%), although the hydroelectricity share h_s increased in
the last six years. Rational use of Colombia's energy resources requires a
gradual, long-term shift of consumption from oil to coal and hydroelec-
tricity, which is the current Government policy. There is still considerable
room for substituting bydropower and coal for the present oil and gas usage
in sectors outside transportation. In the medium and short-term, however,
there is an urgent need to increase the recovery of existing hydrocarbon
reserves and to develop new fields (para. 47).
26.       Colombia's coal resources are substantial, with reserves estimated
at some 10 billion tons, of which only about 20% can be classified as
measured. Coal production grew at about 7% per annum on average over the
1970s to reach a level of about 5 million tons in 1981. Production came from
about 400 small and medium-scale mines, virtually all of which are non-mecha-
nized. More than half of coal production and consumption is concentrated in
the highlands near Bogota. Sixty percent of all coal is consumed by indus-
try, and most of the rest by the power sector. Colombian coal is bituminous.
with high calorific value and low sulphur content, and some possesses coking
properties.
27.       At present rates of use, the country's coal reserves would last two
thousand years. In view of the magnitude of reserves, Government policy
encourages domestic consumption (para. 30) and promotes coal exports. Since
1979, the UNDP and the Bank, as executing agency, have been working jointly
with the State Coal Corporation, (CARBOCOL), which cogether with an EXXON
subsidiary has undertaken to produce 15-millon tons per year from El Cerrejon
North for the export marKet.  The recently-approved Bank loao  ror a coal
exploration project (Loan 2349-CO) will assist in assessing the economic
potential of several other promising areas.
28.       Colombia's hydroelectric potential, at about 100 GW, is among the
largest in the world. The country has made important strides in developing
this potential over the past 10 years, but only some 4% has been developed! to
date, although plants now under construction will virtually double capacity
by 1988. Hydroelectric plants at present represent about 80% of the
installed capacity. Since the plentiful hydro-reserves can be developed at
relatively low cost, they represent an option of high priority. However, the
optimal mix of generation sources needs to be re-examined to take advantage
of the projected increased supply of coal and existing natural gas surplus.
This matter is currently under study (para. 29).
29.       Measured natural gas reserves stood at about 4.1 trillion cubic
feet at the end of 1983, or almost 30 year's consumption at present rates of



- 11 -
utilization. Most reserves, production and consumption are concentrated on
the northern coast, and total consumption growth averaged about 7Z per annum
over the last five years. Thermal power plants now account for about half of
total gas use. Industry represents the bulk of the remainder, with oil
refineries being also important consumers. The excess supply in the northern
region would further increase through ongoing and planned substitution of
coal for u3Ltural gas iL power generation and industry. To this end, the
Government is making arrangements to initiate studies to review possible
alternative gas uses. ECOPETROL has recently conducted a pilot study for use
of compressed natural gas as fuel for transportation vehicles and is
exploring ways for application of this technique on a commercial scale.
Energy Policy and Investment
30.       Since 1977 Colombia has followed a strategy to develop rapidly and
at minimum cost a domestically-based energy supply, to encourage rational
consumption choices through pricing and other incentives (para. 34) and to
strengthen its institutional capacity and data-base for long-term energy
investment planning. In line with this strategy, the aforementioned
electricity and coal development programs have been launched, and private
sector initiatives in petroleum exploration and development have been
successfully promoted (paras. 34, 35 and 39). The Government' b energy
substitution policy has resulted in conversion of all sizeable oil-burning
electricity plar.ts to natural gas. More recently, only coal-based generation
has been authorized for new thermal plants, and present gas burning power
plants will be gradually phased out. Additionally, major industrial users,
particurlarly cement, have converted to coal. The future growth in domestic
market for petroleum products and gas will likely be principally in transport
and, to a lesser degree, in residential uses. Reduced overall petroleum
consumption growth in the long run, combined with higher production, would
enable Colombia to become practically self-sufficient by 1988; however, the
continuation of that position in subsequent years will depend on additions to
proven reserves. In the short- and mediumr-term, an aggressive exploration
and development program for crude oil is expected to contribute meaningfully
to Colombia's balance of payments position. The Government's petroleum
sector strategy is discussed in paras. 33-43.
31.       Electricity, petroleum and natural gas prices are set by the
Government, while coal prices are market-determined. Positive Government
actions in recent years have produced important increases in electricity
rates in real terms, 44Z during 1981-83 alone. Domestic petroleum product
prices have risen from a small fraction of international prices in 1974 to a
level virtually equivalent to the international one. Nevertheless, there is
room for further improvements in long-term pricing policies to reflect better
the opportunity cost of the various energy sources and to provide, within the
Government's broader objectives, appropriately balanced incentives for their
development. The extent to which current prices actually provide such
incentives is not clear. The Government has undertaken a major effort to
improve sector knowledge through a National Energy Study (ENE), which was
carried out between 1979 and 1982 by the National Planning Department (DNP)
with the help of local consultants and technical assistance from UNDP and the
Federal Republic of Germany. This study provides significant information
aeeded for energy planning, including preliminary evaluation of demand growth
and investments that could best serve such growth. As a follow-up to this
major study, the ENE has commenced several specialized studies including



- 12 -
those concerning energy conservation policies in industry and transportation,
alternative uses for natural gas supplies from the Atlantic coast, and
planning for development of energy resources. The Bank will be closely
following the progress of these studies. Mhis effort has also elicited
foreign technical assistance from official sources. Federal Republic of
Germany will provide assistance on modeling and data gathering, France on
industrial energy savings, Italy on rural electrification, and the
Organization of American States (OAS) on energy use in transportation.
32.       Over the past six years, Colombia has been successful in mobilizing
external financing for energy development, through direct foreign investment
(in oil and gas first and lately in coal) and external loans to the energy
agencies, including power companies. However, current conditions in the
international capital market are making financing more difficult to obtain.
Local financing requirements are covered by internally generated resources
and Government contributions, with the incipient local capital market provi-
ding only a marginal share of financing. To increase internal resource
mobilization by the main energy agencies, prices charged to consumers of
petroleum products and electricity have been significantly increased in real
terms, as mentioLed above (para. 31). Furthermore, in 1980 the Government
created the National Coal Fund that receives revenue from a tax on coal
production and finances coal exploration (80%) and small and meeium-scale
coal mining operations (20%). In 1982, a power development bank (FEN) was
established to mobilize domestic as well as foreign resources for the power
sector. PEN has been quite successful in its initial forays into the
domestic capital market and has recently borrowed US$370 million from the
Bank and external commercial lenders for a power development finance project
(Loan 2401-CO). In the petroleum sector, private investors-togetber with
ECOPETROL-played a significant role in support of development in production.
Petroleum
33.       Sector Development and Prospects. Colombia is a mature petroleum
producing country which has been relatively well explored but offers signifi-
cant scope for further exploration. Colombia's sedimentary basins with
characteristics for generation and accumulation of hydrocarbons cover an
aggregate area of about 586,000 ku2. Since the early 1900s, nearly 900
exploratory wells bave been drilled in 11 of the 12 sedimentary basins,
giving an exploratory rate of one well per 829 km2 compared to one well per
15 kmZ of sedimentary basins in the United States. Proven reserves total 734
million barrels of oil, corresponding to about 13 years' consumption. On
average, Colombia's exploratory efforts have resulted in a favorable ratio of
one discovery well for nine dry wells. There is scope for additional
exploratory work and ECOPETROL is promoting development in association with
foreign oil companies.
34.       From the early 1920s through about 1970, the framework of contrac-
tual stability and price incentives attracted heavy involvement by private
oil companies. During most of the 1970s, unattractive terms for exploration
and production, including low producer prices, resulted in a sharp decrease
in private initiative, and ECOPETROL undertook the task of filling this
vacuum through its own investment.  However, by the late 1970s, alarmingly
rapid growth of oil imports and the prospect of serious deterioration in the
country's balance of payments led the Government to reestablish a favorable
climate for private investment. ECOPETROL, at first, continued to envisage



- 13 -
a major role for itself in exploration and development activities but, during
1980-81, the Government scaled down substantially ECOPETROL's plans. In line
with this change, private investment in exploration and development has risen
from US$18 million in 1976 to US$230 million in 1983 for exploration alone.
At present, private investors, which provide 80Z of exploration expenditures,
account for 54% of production. In its own operations, ECOPETROL now focuses
mainly on maintaining and developing the oil fields and infrastructure that
have reverted to it pursuant to expiration of concessions, and promotes
aggressively private investment in the oil sector.
35.       ECOPETROL pays international prices for newly discovered oil, and
the price of base and incremental production from existing fields has also
been increased. Aided by this incentive, 59 new exploration contracts were
signed with pril-te companies from 1980 to 1983. Of the 49 wells drilled
annually on average over the last seven years, 39 were financed by private
investors. ECOPETROL's own exploration is concentrated in areas close to
producing fields, where the geology is reasonably well known, whereas the
private companies are exploring in areas of higher risk, but where the
financial rewards could be substantial. Exploration activity during 1979-83
has increased recoverable reserves by about 343 million Bbls (or nearly
53%). Moreover, the higher prices for crude oil have stimulated private
investment in production facilities which has doubled, from US$18 million to
US$36 million annually, during 1978-82. As a result, the decade-long decline
in production was reversed in 1980, and production has increased since then
by 7% p.a., resulting in about 9O0 self-sufficiency by 1983. By 1988,
Colombia expects to cover 962 of its estimated petroleum requirements from
domestic sources, with an important share of additional production deriving
from the proposed project (para. 48).
36.       Until 1975, retail prices for oil products in Colombia were low in
comparison with international prices (para. 31). As a result of regular
increases (in real terms) made since then, the price level came close to the
international level and, since 1980, have been fluctuating between 90-105% of
it. At present, domestic prices edge to the lower end of the range with
international price levels. Price adjustments are normally made once a year
(January), to raise the prices above international price levels, and allow an
erosion to develop as the year progresses due to exchange rate adjustments.
Consumption estimates indicate that demand during 1980-82 was 52 lower on
average annually, compared to 1974-76. With increases in production higher
than increases in consumption since 1980, net imports of petroleum products
declined from about US$313 million in 1981 to an estimated US$197 million in
1983. Gross oil imports in 1983 were still high (US$636 million, or 13% of
the country's total imports of goods), but were partly offset by the export
of petroleum products.
37.       Institutional Framework and Contractual Arrangements with the
Private Sector. Responsibility for national petroleum policy and pricing
resides with the Minister of Mines and Energy, subject to approval of the
President of Colombia. The state-owned oil company, ECOPETROL, the Borrower
for the proposed loan, started operations in 1951 when a major refinery and
several oil fields reverted to the state after expiration of contracts with
private operators. Since then virtually all the refineries in the country
and various oil fields have reverted to it (para. 39). ECOPETROL is a
legally and financially autonomous company. In 1983, its fields accounted
for 46Z of the crude oil produced in Colombia. It also owns and operates all



- 14 -
refinery capacity of 220,000 BD and controls about 65Z of the oil and gas
transportation system (7,700 km of pipelines). ECOPETROL is the sole
exporter of hydrocarbon products from Colombia.
38.       ECOPETROL is governed by a 5-member Board of Directors appointed by
the President of Colombia and chaired by the Minister of Mines and Energy.
ECOPETROL's President, also appointed by the President of the Republic, is
assisted by five managers responsible for exploration, manufacturing and
production, engineering and projects, finance, and administration. The
persons currently holding these positions are well-qualified and competent,
with 16 years or more of service with ECOPETROL. In 1983, ECOPETROL staff
numbered 8,000 of whom 2,500 were technical supervisory staff. Overall,
ECOPETROL is a mature company, technically sound and competently staffed.
It intends to strengthen its capability to assess the potential of fields
which have already reverted to the State, and several others which will
revert in future years.  ITis would enbance not only ECOPETROL's technical
field evaluations, but also its ability to evaluate the options -private or
its own operations-for further development of promising fields. ECOPETROL
has now set up a Secondary Recovery Unit and, by December 31, 1984, will
employ there at least three suitably-qualified engineers (Section 3.01(e) of
the draft Loan Agreement). In support of this effort, technical assistance
is to be provided under the proposed loan. The Bank and ECOPETROL would
review together the viability and proposed production arrangements for fields
to be considered in the coming years for secondary recovery (paras. 45 and
48(d)). ECOPETROL's accounting system is satisfactory. Under the proposed
loan, external auditing, following standard commercial practices acceptable
to the Bank, would be proviVed (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.       Prior to 1969, exploration and development work in Colombia was
undertaken through concession contracts with private investors. From these
contracts, the Government derived a royalty of 14.5% (later raised to 20x),
plus income taxes on profits. In 1969, association contracts were introduced
for the first time and, since 1974, only such contracts were permitted by
law, although remaining concession contracts continue to be honored. Under
the new system, the associated company provides all funds for exploration.
ECOPETROL shares with the company 50% of development expenses and receives
50% of production after deducting a 20% Government royalty on total output.
ECOPETROL, in turn, retains 40% of the royalties. Currently there are 25
foreign and local oil companies active in Colombia. These include major
well-known international companies such as EXXON and TEXACO; independents,
Occidental and Houston Oil and Gas; a European company - Elf Aquitaine; and
many smaller companies such as Louisiana Land and Exploration and PETROCOL, a
Colombian company which received assistance from IFC. There are 14 foreign
companies active in exploration and/or production under 23 association
contracts with ECOPETROL and 16 concession contracts. In 1983, association
contracts accounted for 13% of crude production and concessions for 41%.
40.       The 1984-88 Petroleum Investment Program.  The key objectives of
the 1984-88 Petroleum Investment Program are: (i) rapid production increases
from old oil fields through secondary recovery at relatively low risk; (ii)
rapid development of new discoveries (under association contracts) and
provision of required infrastructure particularly in the Llanos area; and
(iii) promotion of new exploration by foreign oil companies in the Llanos and
in 11 other sedimentary basins, some of which have not been explored in depth
as yet.



- 15 -
41.       The 1984-88 Investment Program envisages continued cooperation
between ECOPETROL and foreign companies. Including all expected public and
private capital outlays in the sector, it amounts to US$3.1 billion of which
ECOPETROL would account for about US$2.1 billion and the private companies,
about US$1 billion. ECOPETROL's capital outlays consist mainly of its share
under its association contracts with private companies, infrastructure
investments in support of private sector activities, and the Casabe secondary
recovery scheme included in the proposed project (para. 48(a)). Private
sector activity would continue to be concentrated in those activities
requiring risk capital, i.e., mainly exploration and development of new
fields, whereas ECOPETROL would concentrate its own operations on the further
development of fields which reverted to it after the expiration of
concessions and which entail minimal risk, and on infrastructure. The
investment program takes account of ECOPETROL's implementation capability and
financial constraints, and contains only highest priority investments in
exploration, development, refineries and petrochemicals, and pipelines. In
making commitments to new capital expenditures, ECOPETROL would ensure that
its capabilities to implement the proposed Bank project will not be adversely
affected as a result of such commitments (Section 5.04(c) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
42.       ECOPETROL's exploration program would amount to US$203 million or
10% of Its investment program, while the private risk capital likely to be
invested for exploration (US$450 million) would be more than double this
amount. ECOPETROL's exploration would include seismic surveys used, in part,
to promote acreage to private industry. The bulk of ECOPETROL's investments,
US$990 million, would be in development, reflecting the high priority
attached to increasing production. Some 40% of this effort would be
ECOPETROL's share with private association partners, who will contribute
US$379 million, and US$375 million (on the basis of the currently estimated
development costs) would be for the Casabe secondary recovery. In addition,
ECOPETROL would invest US$225 million to continue development drilling in 13
of itS own, mainly old, fields. In pipelines, ECOPETROL would invest US$323
million including the Aptay-Yopal-Velasquez pipeline, which, together with
the Cano Limon - Rio Zulia pipeline to be partly financed under the proposed
project (para. 48(c)), would bring newly-discovered oil from the Llanos area
over the Andes to connect to the existing pipeline system. The proposed
Llanos pipelines, one of which is to be constructed as a joint venture with
private enterprise, could spur further oil industry interest in that area,
given the prospect of considerable reduction in transport costs. In the area
of refineries and petrochemicals, ECOPETROL would commit US$358 million, of
which US$252 million would be tentatively allocated for a new refinery unit
still under study. Such a unit would convert the heavy petroleum, of which
Colombia has an oversupply, into lighter products which are in short supply.
On the whole, this investment program is well balanced both as regards its
size and the individual components. In terms of operational management of
the program, the private sector would be responsible for about a half,
including its own program and ECOPETROL's share of association field
developments.
43.       ECOPETROL's internal cash generation is expected to meet nearly 60%
of the cost of its 1984-88 investment program, but the company will have to
borrow the remaining 40%, or US$890 million, from external sources. For
this purpose, ECOPETROL plans to rely as much as practicable on suppliers'
credits (US$300 million) to help finance the equipment required for its



- 16 -
investments. The remainder (US$590 million) has to be institutional
borrowing, including the proposed Bank loan. Until 1980, ECOPETROL was able
to mobilize long-term funds at reasonable cost, but fiuancing from commercial
sources has now become severely limited as a result of the current Latin
American debt crisis. The proposed Bank loan would ease ECOPETROL's task of
raising funds from commercial sources and export financing agencies.
The recent increase in the estimate of recoverable oil reserves of the Llanos
oil fields may improve ECOPETROL's prospects for attracting private investors
and commercial lenders for joint ventures in the Colombian oil sector.
ECOPETROL is now exploring with its lead banks possible long term financing,
including loans from commercial sources and export financing agencies. It
is also firming up its estimate of financial needs which would arise from
further promising field developments in association with private partners.
During the first half of 1985, when the outcome of ECOPETROL's exploratory
discussions will be clearer, the Bank would support the effort with a B-Loan
(in an amount of about US$80 million, with a Bank contribution of up to 20%),
as in the case of the recently approved Bank loan to FEN for a Power
Development Finance Project (Loan No. 2401-CO). Agreements now reached with
ECOPETROL to ensure that its financial soundness will be maintained in future
should help facilitate its access to commercial credit sources of finance
(para. 56).
The Role of the Bank in the Energy Sector
44.       Since 1950, the Bank has supported development of Colombia's energy
sector with 29 loans totalling US$1,708.6 million for electricity and a
US$9.5 million loan for coal engineering (para. 27). The power loans have
assisted in the expansion of generating capacity, creation of a national
transmission network and provision of distribution facilities, including
expansion of electricity distribution to low-income areas. In addition, the
Bank has financed and executed technical assistance projects to strengthen
power system planning, sector organization, institutional strengthening and
studies on marginal-cost-based tariffs. Previous Bank lending to Colombia's
power sector has been found generally successful in several OED reports,
particularly its contribution to countrywide coordinated sector development.
Present Bank technical assistance efforts in the power sector concentrate on
issues of investment and financial planning, tariff structures, the
distribution program, and energy losses-as recommended by OED.
45.       The Bank support of ECOPETROL's investment programs would focus
mainly on its field development work in joint ventures with private partners,
provision of infrastructure needed for increased private investment and, in
oil fields reverted to ECOPETROL, on quick-yielding, high-return projects
which would strengthen ECOPETROL's finances and erhance its ability to pay
its share of joint field developments with private partners. The proposed
Bank loan to ECOPETROL represents the culmination of several years' effort,
by the Colombian authorities and the Bank, to reach agreement on targets that
would assure ECOPETROL's financial soundness. The agreements involved are
designed to ensure, inter alia, that ECOPETROL's debt structure remains
manageable and that an appropriate part of its investment program is financed
through internal cash generation. An annual review with ECOPETROL of its
investment program would focus attention on high priority investents for
which financing is available and provide an opportunity to encourage



- 17 -
continued strong private sector participation (para. 56). Taken together,
the financial performance covenants would entail the passing on of price
increases for crude oil purchased by ECOPETROL from its partners and external
suppliers to domestic consumers, thus ensuring that sales prices remain
within the range of international price levels. Finally, particular
importance is attached to augmenting ECOPETROL's technical and managerial
capability, to carry out its secondary recovery programs and to assess field
development options. The latter would involve, specifically, a detailed
review of the public vs. private options for operating oil fields which will
be reverted to ECOPETROL after termination of their concessions, with the
objective of encouraging private investment to the extent indicated by
technical, risk and financial considerations (para. 48(d)).
PART IV: THE PROJECT
Background
46.       The proposed project was prepared by ECOPETROL, the private oil
companies, and the Bank, and was appraised by a Bank mission that visited
Colombia in February 1984. Negotiations were held in Washington during the
week of August 20, 1984 with a Colombian delegation led by Dr. Rodolfo
Segovia, President of ECOPETROL. A Staff Appraisal Report is being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data
sheet appears as Annex III.
ProJect Objectives
47.       Taken together, Colombia's abundant array of energy resources offer
impressive prospects for future industrial development, as well as for major
expansion and diversification of its export base. A serious effort to real-
ize this potential has been underway since 1977. Although important progress
has been made, there is still a long way to go since the country has not yet
regained its previous self-sufficiency in energy supply. The proposed
project would assist Colombia to build upon the gains made so far by further-
ing the following objectives: Firstly, on the macroeconomic level, it would
reduce Colombia's dependence on imported oil. The estimated value of the
36,500 barrels per day of incremental oil production under the project would
be US$545 million in 1988, representing 9% of the projected import bill in
that year. Secondly, the strain on long-term investments needed for growth
represented by external commercial lenders' reluctance to increase exposure
in Colombia would be alleviated by the proposed Bank lending, including a
B-loan which would follow the current lending operation. With the
concomitant aim of minimizing public sector capital outlays to the extent
practicable, private investors would have greater scope to play a major role
in the Colombian oil sector. Thirdly, the project would promote continued
sound petroleum pricing policy and investment choices, to favor efficiency in
resource allocation. On the sectoral and institutional level, the project
would buttress ECOPETROL's capability to increase the efficiency of its
operations, incorporate adequate environmental safeguards into its
activities, better evaluate field development prospects, and function
effectively in partnership with private investors.



- 18 -
Project Description
48.       The project (IBRD map 18402) consists of four main components:
(a) ECOPETROL Casabe enhanced oil recovery program: Casabe is an
existing oil-ptoducing field which reverted to ECOPETROL from Shell
in the early fifties pursuant to the expiration of its concession
agreement (para. 37). Based upon pilot water injections made by
ECOPETROL during 1980-83 to help define recovery methods and
recoverable reserves, it is now estimated that about 70 million
barrels of additional oil can be expected for recovery from this
field by 2004, through a water injection program (at a base cost of
US$375 million) with low residual risk and attractive pay-off rate
to ECOPETROL. The project would provide for the drilling of about
500 injection and 53 producing wells, drilling and completion rig
services, design and construction of surface facilities to process
fluids, store and transfer crude oil, work-over of producing wells,
plant for water injection and the treating of residual water to
remove pollutants before disposal into the nearby Magdalena River.
Producing an incremental 20,000 BD by 1988, valued at about US$295
million, the Casabe component would contribute 12Z of the country's
crude oil ouput and would enhance ECOPETROL's finances to
participate in joint field developments with private investors
(paras. 35 and 45). Successful execution of this project component
will, however, require resolution of difficult technical problems
which may emerge as the project implementation advances. To assist
in handling them, provisions would be made under the proposed loan
for consultant and engineering services for the detailed design,
execution and monitoring of the execution; the Bank would also
maintain close supervision;
(b) Field development under ECOPETROL's association contracts with
private companies: This project component covers field
developments, at a base cost of US$353 million {ECOPETROL's share
of the total development costs), to include the recent oil
discoveries by Occidential Petroleum (U.S.), Elf Aquitaine (France)
and Chevron (U.S.) in the Llanos area, as well as enhanced oil
recovery by steam injection in an old field in Cocorna by Texaco
(U.S.). Under its association contracts with private
investors/operators, who provide their contributions in the form of
equity, ECOPETROL is obligated to contribute 50% of the development
costs (normally in equity) and is entitled to receive 50% of
production, after deducting 20Z Government royalty on total
output. Initially, the investors/operators would provide all funds
for exploration (para. 39). Under this project component, the Bank
would finance a part of ECOPETROL's contractual financial
obligations to private inestors/operators for field developments
(para. 49). This project component is estimated to produce an
incremental 16,500 BD by 1988, with an annual value of about US$250
million, equivalent to about 10% of Colombia's total projected
crude oil production in that year.
(c)  Cano Limon - Rio Zulia Pipeline:  Construction of a 290-km, 18/20
inches pipeline at a base cost of US$140 million to transport the



- 19 -
westward-bound pipeline to refinery. The pipeline would be
constructed and operated under an association contract between ECOPETROL
and Occidental Petroleum on a 50/50 partnership basis. For the
construction, Occidental Petroleum would provide 50% of the required
funds in the form of equity; ECOPETROL would contribute 3%, the Bank 6%
and the remainder would be borrowed from export credit
agencies/commercial sources, all of which would constitute ECOPETROL's
equity share. ECOPETROL would assume the servicing obligation for loans
raised on account of its snare of the financing;
(d)  Technical assistance, training and studies:  In comparison with the
techniques now in use, the enhanced secondary oil recovery
technique in locations other than Casabe is estimated to allow
production of an additional 100 million barrels of oil from
existing fields. To help attain this objective, the project would
provide technical assistance to the Enhanced Oil Recovery Unit,
established in ECOPETROL during preparation of the proposed project
(para. 38), to strengthen its capability in design and supervision
of technical studies, and in planning and evaluation of pilot field
tests. Reservoir simulation studies would be carried out in 18 fields
operated by ECOPETROL and private companies, as well as 4 pilot field
tests using enhanced recovery techniques. ECOPETROL personnel would
receive training in these techniques, both on-the-job and abroad. An
environmental protection study would be undertaken under the project to
facilitate establishment of national policy and appropriate safeguards
to minimize undesirable effects on the environment from development and
use of liquid hydrocarbons. In total, 280 man-months of consulting
services would be provided under the project's technical assistance
component.
Costs and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$980 million, of which
US$591 million (60%) would be in foreign exchange. ECOPETROL would finance
about US$389 million, or 40% of the total project costs, from internal cash
generation, thus covering the full local costs. Foreign costs would be
financed by the private operators (US$274 million), export credits (about
US$107 million), commercial banks/B-loan (about US$80 million) and the Bank
(US$130 million). The following are the detailed cost estimates for the
major project components and the proposed financing plan (in US$ million):
Estimated Cost                   Financing Plan
ECOPETROL
Cash            Commer-        Private
Genera- Export    cial          Opera-
Project Components  Foreign  Local  Total    tion   Credits  Banks   IBED   tors
Casabe enhanced oil
recovery            252      168    420     285        25      40     70       -
Association field
developments        235      156    391       97       18      40     40   195.5
Cano Limon - Rio
Zula pipeline        94       63    157        5       64       -      10    78.5
Studies and Techni-
cal Assistance        10       2     12       2                        10      -
Total                  591     389    980      389      107      80    130   274
(Z)                    (60)    (40)  (100)    (40)      (11)     (8)   (13)  (28)



- 20 -
The project costs are based on mid-1984 estimates prepared by ECOPETROL; they
include physical contingencies amounting to 7%, which is considered adequate
in view of the advanced stage of project preparation. Price contingencies
are provided for at 8% in 1985 and 9% in 1986-88 for foreign costs and 20% in
1985 and 1986 and 18% in 1987 and 1988 for local costs. The Colombian
currency is projected to devalue by 28% in 1984, 23% in 1985, 13% in 1986,
10% in 1987 and 9% in 1988. The Bank loan would finance a relatively small
part of the proposed project: 13% of the total costs and 22% of the foreign
costs. The Bank financing would be associated with those components (Casabe,
joint venture field developments and studies) that lend themselves to the
Bank's guidelines for procurement; US$10 million out of the loan proceeds
would be allocated for the pipeline construction because Occidental Petroleum
company, which is arranging the balance of the financing for its own account
and that of ECOPETROL, reported that the commercial lenders approached
considered direct Bank involvement-even on a small-scale--to be an important
element in their decisions. Procurement under the Bank loan for this
component would be on the basis of purchase of selected equipment and
services, in accordance with the Bank guidelines.
The Borrower's Finances
50.       ECOPETROL's revenues originate from the domestic sale of oil
products and natural gas, and the export of fuel oil and middle distillates.
On the expenses side, ECOPETROL purchases the full output of oil and gas
produced in Colombia by private oil companies. In addition, ECOPETROL
imports crude oil and gasoline (to make up for the short-fall in crude
production and the output of the domestic refineries). Lastly, ECOPETROL
produces natural gas and crude oil which is processed together with the
domestically-purchased and the imported crude in its two major refineries.
51.       Both the prices and volumes of ECOPETROL's operations are largely
determined by forces "cternal to ECOPETROL. The prices at which ECOPETROL
sells oil products ant. natural gas are Government-regulated (para. 36). The
prices at which it purchases domestic crude oil and natural gas from the
foreign companies are based on the concession and association agreements
(para. 39). The prices at which it exports fuel oil and imports crude oil
and gasoline are determined by the international market. Consumers' demand
determines the amount of petroleum products sold in Colombia. Volume of
imports reflects the sales in excess of domestic production which, in turn,
is largely determined by foreign operators.
52.       In past years ECOPETROL has earned profits from the sale of
domestically-produced oil and its own crude production. The losses it
incurred on the resale of imported gasoline and crude cil (resulting from
excise taxes of close to 30% that ECOPETROL pays to the Goverment) have
reduced its profits, resulting in a still-satisfactory financial performance
which has shown small profits of about US$10 million in 1981 and 1983.
Overall losses in 1980 and 1982 were limited to US$5 million and US$10
million, respectively.
53.       ECOPETROL's low profitability reflects to a considerable extent its
accounting practice under which foreign exchange losses on external debt are
entered into annual income statements as costs, while the actual losses occur
only when payments fall due. Thus in the interim, ECOPETROL's cash flow
situation remains strong. Over 1980-83, it was able to finance from internal



- 21 -
from internal sources about half of its investment program of approximately
US$1.0 billion. Considering the project's and ECOPETROL's favorable cash
flow projections, the maturity of the proposed Bank Loan would be set at 14
years, instead of the usual 17-year maturity for Colombian loans (the shorter
maturity of the loan will be compensated by extending the terms in
forthcoming operations on Colombia). ECOPETROL's main problem in the last
two years has been the unavailability of long-term financing because of
Colombia's difficulty in tapping the international capital markets, with the
company consequently resorting to short-term borrowings. In recent years,
ECOPETROL was able to raise only two long-term loans, one syndicated by
Chemical Bank (US$200 million in 1979) and another by Manufacturer's Hanover
Trust (US$100 million in 1980). Short-term loans outstanding, which had
peaked at US$365 million at end-1982, have now fallen below US$200 million.
Had ECOPETROL obtained long- rather than short-term financing, its current
ratio at end-1983 would have been an acceptable 1.1 rather than 0.7. The
proposed Bank loan and cofinancing loans (including the proposed B loan)
would strengthen ECOPETROL's financial position and improve its future
borrowing prospects (para. 56).
54.       At end-1983, ECOPETROL's debt:equity ratio was 65:35, which is
rather low in relation to the type of business it conducts. But, this ratio
was calculated on a very conservative basis since it was based on unrevalued
assets while long-term liabilities were revalued. In accordance with
Colombian law, ECOPETROL revalues only partly the assets on its books. For
instance, at end-1983 for insurance purposes, ECOPETROL's oper2ting assets
(excluding pipelines) were valued at US$1.9 billion, against a book value of
US$0.75 billion. Had ECOPETROL revalued its assets on the basis of
replacement costs, its debt:equity ratio at end-1983 would have been 33:67
rather than 65:35.
55.       In the future, ECOPETROL would have to buy an increasing share of
crude oil priced at international price levels from fields exploited under
association contracts. By 1988, association crude could represent 38% of
Colombia's production, against 13% in 1983, while the share of concession
crude, which is priced at about half that of association crude, would decline
from 41% to 20%. As a result, the average cost of purchase by ECOPETROL
would more than double from US$11.71/Bbl in 1983 to US$26.80/Bbl in 1988.
This cost increase together with the financial performance targets agreed
during negotiations (para. 56), would imply a projected increase in consumer
prices of 5% annually, in real terms. Thus, domestic prices expressed in US$
are expected to increase broadly at the same pace as current international
oil prices. Frov the revenues generated, ECOPETROL is expected to finance
out of its own resources some 60% of its investment program. The remainder
would be financed through loans and private equity contributions(para. 43).
56.       To ensure sustained, satisfactory financial performance,
ECOPETROL's operating income (before depreciation and debt service charges)
for each full fiscal year would be equivalent at all times to at least 1.4
times aggregate projected debt service requirements (Section 5.07 of draft
Loan Agreement). Long-term debt to equity ratio would not exceed 60:40,
based on assets revalued according to a method satisfactory to the Bank, and
ECOPETROL would complete the revaluation of assets not later than March 31,
1985 (Section 5.05 of draft Loan Agreement). The company's current ratio
would be at least 0.8 in 1984, 0.9 in 1985 and 1.1 thereafter (Section 5.06



- 22-
(a) of draft Loan Agreement) - Moreover, by February 28 of each year,
ECOPETROL would furnish to the Bank for its review and comment detailed
five-year financial projections, including proposed investments and financing
plans. In the event these projections should indicate that ECOPETROL would
not meet one or more of the financial covenants, the company would exchange
views with the Bank on measures it proposes to take to do so (Section 5.04
(a)(b) and (c) of draft Loan Agreement). Altogether, these covenants would
constitute a -proxy- for satisfactory pricing policies since the cost impact
of petroleum imports and domestic purchases would need to be compensated by
maintaining domestic prices at levels close to international prices. Under
all probable scenarios tested, the proposed financia. covenants required
appropriate pricing levels. Their utility is, however, sensitive to domestic
production increase well beyond the currently projected quantities.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Goods and services to be financed from the proposed loan and
procured under international competitive bidding procedures in accordance
with Bank guidelines would include drilling and pumps both for Casabe and for
pilot enhaaced oil recovery operations. Other specialized services such as
cementing, logging and perforating needed during completion of wells would be
procured by requesting bids from a2l firms known to supply these services (a
small number worldwide). The association partners, who are the operators for
the association field developments, would procure the drilling and selected
specialized services (which represent about 50% of total foreign exchange
cost of these developments and are equal to ECOPETROL's share) according to
international competitive bidding, to enable the Bank to provide financing
for these contracts (Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement). Technical
assistance and consultant services would be carried out by qualified and
experienced consultants under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank
(Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement). Procurement for other project
items to be financed from otber than Bank sources would follow acceptable oil
industry practice, which is expected to result in competitive prices in line
with the project cost estimates.
58.       The proposed Bank loan would finance:  (a) 50% of total expendi-
tures (representing 100% of the foreign exchange cost) for drilling services
for Casabe, the field developments, and enhanced oil recovery pilot field
tests; (b) 90% of total expenditures (representing 100% of the foreign
exchange cost) of specialized services (logging, perforating and cementing)
for Casabe, field developments and enhanced oil recovery pilot field tests;
(c) 100% of foreign expenditures for pumping units for Casabe, for the
enhanced oil recovery pilot field tests and for pipeline equipment and
services and (d) 10OZ of foreign expenditures for enhanced oil recovery
studies, technical assistance, training and laboratory tests. A condition of
disbursement for the Cano LImon - Rio Zulia pipeline would be satisfactory
contractual arrangements between ECOPETROL and Occidental Petroleum Company
for construction of the pipeline in accordance with a feasibility study and
financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank. Approval by the Bank of a
feasibility study and evidence of contractual arrangements between ECOPETROL
and private companies would also be a condition of disbursement for each of
the field developments (Schedule 1 of the draft Loan Agreement).
59.       Loan proceeds would be disbursed into a dollar-denominated special
account in Banco de la Republica, to be established by ECOPETROL solely for



- 23 -
the purposes of the project. The Bank would uake an initial deposit into the
account of up to US$20.0 million. Disbursements from the specilal account
would be made for eligible expenditures under rhe loan. Replenishment of the
dollar equivalent amount of disbursements from that account would be made
upon receipt of withdrawal applications from ECOPETROL under certified
statements of expenditures. In addition to the external auditing of
ECOPETROL (para. 38), the revolving fund account would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank (Section 5.02 of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Closing Date would be June 30. 1989.
Implementation
60.      The Production Projects Division of ECOPETROL's Production
Department would be in charge of project implementation of the Casabe
enhanced oil recovery sub-project. Implementation would ztart in the second
half of 1984 and coniissioning would take place at the end of 1987. The
division is well staffed and competent; it would be assisted by suitable
consultants on specialized technical subjects. As regards the field
developments, private oil companies would be in charge of developing the
reserves, once ECOPETROL bas given its approval to the initial development
plan and an annual go-ahead. This arrangement is satisfactory. Regarding
the Cano Limon - R;o Zulia pipeline, a contract has been signed for turnkey
works with Hannesman (Germany) in August 1984 under which the general
contractor will do the detailed design, supply the materials and construct
the pipeline system by January 1986. Occidential F?troleum Company will
thereafter operate the pipeline under its association contract with
ECOPETROL. Inspection during construction will be carried out jointly by
Occidental Petroleum Company and ECOPETROL, assisted by consultants.
Completion of all other project components is expected by December 31, 1988.
Ecology and Safety
61.       No major environmental risks are likely to result from the
project.  So far, ECOPETROL has had an excellent safety record and its pollu-
tion and fire prevention 2ractices, which are standard for the petroleum
industry, are satisfactory. Oil spills resulting from pipeline failures and
blowouts are always possible, but ECOPETROL is experienced and takes precau-
tionary measures. With respect to the Casabe component, large volumes of
water with a high salt content must be disposed of. To avoid damage to
agriculture and cattle-raising in the area, or pollution of the nearby
Magdalena River, the produced resUc-al waters would be treated in a special
unit to achieve an acceptable level of oil and salt content before disposal
in the river, which is acceptable. Under the project, a study would be
carried out to enable establishment of a comprehensive petroleum policy
framework for environmental protection (para. 48(d)).
Benefits and Risks
62.       The project involves significant benefits for the Colombian
economy. It would provide for nearly 22% of estimated domestic petroleum
product sales in 1988 and would replace alternative imports, thus relieving
pressure on the balance of payments. By the same token, the project would
strengthen ECOPETROL's financial situation, since it would avoid costly
imports, and thus generate sufficient funds to allow further increases in
production and reserves.   Moreover, ECOPETROL's capabilities in the



- 24 -
techniques of enhanced oil recovery would be developed and permit the
preparation of similar such projects with important economic benefits. The
economic rate of return for the Casabe component has been calculated at 43Z.
For the association field developments and the pipeline, the corresponding
rates are calculated at 23Z and 182 or higher, respectively. From the
pipeline, for an approximate investment of US$157 million, ECOPETROL would
derive a yearly saving of some US$40-50 million based on a production of
30,000 BD from Cano Limon. Since the peak production is likely to be even
higher than this, the benefits are also likely to be higher, and the rate of
return is likely to exceed significantly the estimated opportunity cost of
capital in Colombia.
63.       The geological, operational, financial and political risks
associated with the project are those inherent in the petroleum industry.
The geological risks associated with the field developments component have
been minimized as the operators, who contribute 50% of all development
investments, are well known and experienced oil companies. With respect to
the enhanced oil recovery component, information already available on the
Casabe field has established it as an excellent candidate for secondary
recovery by water injection. ECOPETROL has already taken steps both during
the preparation of the sub-project and the pilot phase to ensure an efficient
and safe execution. Key success factors will be the performance of the
project unit, assisted by a well-known, reputable foreign engineering firm.
The pipeline is subject to risks normally associated with such construction
projects in difficult terrain; since a qualified and experienced contractor
under a turnkey, fixed price contract would be in charge of construction,
delays would be minimized. The feasibility study confirms the existence of
sufficient reserves for adequate utilization of the pipeline. The Bank
participation in its financing would provide an element of stability and
objectivity in this long-term infrastructure investment. The agreements
reached during negotiations would ensure that ECOPETROL achieves a healthy
financial structure thus minimizing financial risks to the project. A part
of finance for the Casabe and the field development components of the project
has still to be raised (para.43.)  If an unexpected delay occured in raising
of such additional funds, expend  ures on these project components may be
curtailed without compromising the project's viability.
PART V: LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and ECOPETROL, the draft
Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Colombia and the Bank and the
report o. the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the
Bank's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
65.       Special conditions of the the loan are listed in Section III of
Annex III. There are no special conditions of loan effectiveness.



-25 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI: REC      DX
67.       I recommend that the Emecutive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Wasbington, D.C.
October 19, 1984



- 26 -
ANNEX I
T&BSL 3r                                   Paae I of 5
COLUMBA                - SOCIAL IinIxrAT  00Th   E
cDLGMU!                                   OC GOUS; (           AenffM iIa
csr ~~~   RRUNAZE}) -b
196m      1970t        Sr=         LA.  AER     CA              zoomE
aim cixain sq. me
TUaL                              11389       1135.9     13_.9
AEZCILTURAL                        350.5      350.5       32s 0                                         _
W  VW wm  CO)                          70-:o     440.0      1400.0           21056                    230&.3
(EIULDJ6 OF OIL EQCMYALES)         355s0      495.0       090.0            9,-5                    1122.8
PMFOAIXON MM WITAL SMTrISCS
POPULIIE*RlD--TEAR (ITFSARS)   15754.0    21206.0    269sS-0 0
12Am roFuLaTIOS (C o TOTAL)         48.2       59.5        04.9             00.5                     48
POFOIATI00 mIOECrIOMS
1O6MATIe. L IS YEA  -000 (MILL)                          375 _
SmnTIO.ARi POFLAUr g (HILL)                              01-.
FoPULITIOS  31ETm                                         1_8
PIWULALOTO DENmITY
PER SQ. ER.                       13.0        1607       23.2             35.7 rSZ9
PER Sq. E. aaI  LA_D              05.0       6007        8524             92-4                    156.9
ALAToL ACE SLUcTraE (_)
0-14 lAS                        4._.         46.2       3s_2             39.9                     31_6
15.0  viRs                        50.3       511        6003             5b_0                     61_1
65 *0D ABOVE                       2.9        2_8         3.4              0.1                      7.L
90PMATIO G- CRT H RATE CZ)
TTAL                               3_t         3.0        2_0              2.4                      1.6
CRUX                               5_7         5_2        2_7              3.6                      3.7
CRUDE      IUR : RATE (PER ThOCS)   47.2       33.8        20_9             31.3                     23.4
CRImE DEATH RMTM (PER TN}S)         17.4        9.7         74               8.1                      8.8
ROSS REPRODTI0U RATE                 3.3        2.3         1_8              2.0                      1.6
FAMILY PLAtiSG
ACPTORS. ALAL CTHMS)                .        115-4      1928 
USERS (2 OF MARRIED   ME            __        -_         49.0             40.3
M D r
iD   oF FDOD PRQc0 PER CAPITA
(1909-71-LO)                      100.0       99.0       124.0            114.3                    l14.5
PER CAPIT cPPLT OF
CALLAILS CZ OF RSQUIREKENTS)      96.0       87.0       106.0            110.*                    1286,
PROTEIS (GRAMS PMR DAY)           540 o       b.0        55.0             67.3                     89.7
OF 1IC0 *A1111L ANT POSE        28.0        20.0       25.0 Ic          34.1                     30.5
tXLD CAGES 1-4) DEATH RATE          11.:        b.0         0.0              5.7                      5.2
LIFE EPECT. AT B1IRTH (YEARS)       53.1       58.9        b3.7             007                      07.4
IDFA:r FRT. RAT  (KPR TMWS)         93.:       70.6        53.9             600.                     54.2
ACCESS TO SAFE lATER (=POP)
TUOAL                             30.0 J,    63.0       6000 /d           65.4                       *-
CR"o                             5s4.9 7     88.0        73.0 7;i         78.1                        -
RUR                                6. Je    28.0         46_0 Td          462 
ACCESS TO EICRETA DISPOSAL
( OF POPLIATIOR)
TOTAL                                _       47.0        40. Id           S2.9                        -
C*                                  ._       75.0        60.0 Tdi          7_0 _.
RLUAL                               ._        8.0        14.0 7           24.5
P0P0ATIOR PER PHYSICIAS           Z640.0     2330.0      1710-0 If        1917.7                   1065-8
POP. PER L4lSISC PERSONi          4220.0      730 0       600.0 7T         815.8                    7004
POP. PER  OSPITL  RED
TOTAL                            360.0       *50.0      580.0 If         367.2                    320.3
UIMS                                --      380.0       490.0 T0 11.5                             20 .5
RURAL                                _          ._         _.           263603 
115510XS PER HOSPITi.L LED MM                  22.9        29.8 Ic          27.3                     20.0
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               _          5.7 lb                                                 -
CEMAI                               __         5_5Jh
URAL                                __         5.9._
AVERACE NO. OF PERSOIIS/tOO
TOTAL                                _         1.8 Ib 
URWA                               1.6                      -___
RURAL                               __        2.47         .
ACCESS TO ELECT. (C OF DELLINGS)
T0amL                            4'7.0 /I    5831 lb
1AX                               83.0 77    S7_5 71
RUMA                                .0o       13.2 W



- 27 -
ANNEX I
.A&&Z a    it                                  Page  2 of 5
am                           UTUZU=) alMKS 
USA   1970D-  umkiza  z-. Ann" & Ca   D                          mm
a8U-
U    Fi4a  s                 77.0      105.        130.             10.4                     9101.
JUA13            77n.0      110.0       13.0             104.5                    IL.
scU  wom                           2.0       2.0         "-.              43.2                     5.I
313                     13.0       25.0        4.0              43.3                    6.1
YOM                     U.0        24.0       51.0               4.5                    50.6
10C6L ci 0o    _ )mlM               30.8a      20.2        21.6 Le          3.                       21.6
plum~                             35.0       3.C         31.O             30.1                     2ML
lac W                             U11.0      17.0        21.0             1.                       20.5
A  :       =  3=                                    & 62.5    61.0            .5                     75s
sun== CatIiAu                        3.7       1.2         18.6 f           46.0                     54.7
VA=  UZ1Uv7  UAU    03S5                       14.3       11.3              2.6                     164.3
:v     iinicsaI 1W                   9.5       33.L        U.9             107.2                    13.8
ts133 C5= COSIAL
m:_}c- CEL=
m       6U 101cATM                50.0       18.7        50.2 jg          63.5                     96.3
WI& AIMC M          JC               ..          ..         2.9  I                                    2.9
ULo0  MICs COc)                   4727.0     6353.0  *S90.0
igumr    t l )                    29.2       24.6        24.7               .2                     34.5
5 C7UCZ)                          5. 4       37.3        25l              31.5                     40.7
nc          CtDo                  19.2       21.0        21-2             23.                      23.3
TL                                30.0       23.9        34.1             32.2                     42.9
1413                              45S        45.L        51.2             4.3                      54.7
13343                             U11.5      14.68       16.5             15.2                     31.0
OCC=              l=                 1.7        1.6         1.2              1.4                      0.9
lV  St Or 0                      41.2 h k   31.9 n
:x    35 or 3111 11 67.7-6fi  60.1.
1     350=o MO390005               3.1    k   3
LS  'M or usu1                     6.1       10;
MMMAISMI TIZ 705!PC=
tQsA                                                   9.              u14rx
0333                                .          .        267.0 /e         522.8
~AL  ,,    ..       122.0 7;         372.4
powrr Ds:= Lzu CZ)
..                                            ..        34.0 Ic
30*2                                ..         ..          .                 ..
501r AVUAIXAN
VW sro-  weree for eac isilcatr we r--u             *hcA eritheatic us. Covere of c   tr_e   oag the
sndicastor depend   savaiIaMlty of date nS to not unUrfo.
Mae" othawale  mated. 'tsfr 19W' reafr to  w YOr batuae  1359 and 1961; -Dat for 1970' betwee 1969  d
v9n; end das for -Mot Useat tatlmte betwean 1960 end 196.
.e  1977; L ,1976; A 16; WI7; LL 1962; /h 1973; I 1979; . Includl  teachr traing at th  thlrd 1avl;
JUU. 1984



- 28 -                                                           ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 5
am~-"o  Omuw   saa was. so~ lb                   b W
_ -           S. 54=      lii ~l        WI.            _        I  _: _b _l  _lS  _4W
_f _o. _mum am _ as_ __m mm ~ at an  ___
-54- =                     we a 41M, -m -4 _t ,N _,  ,                                           Woo           _     _ W   _
-  -  WI   ~ ~~~~~~~EM   =ftnw"W                                             -m  nsl          lblb  54-  n.5  lI.
Is eol  WeblM.o.L -    -Imbe  .n W a                                            w ll Olson   WIM lblblb -wm  lb
nom  so hOt  Won  - bibU MasonW NW.-Ialsesa
tam     5   b.a  dbm,                                                                                 -do, -    aLb - _ _ _WI (lbS.
.-   -1 -. - _--     or mew _ ,,I,,,_      .- _   _  _" _    _
ad            m -   wlb eI.                      _         5.l _ -               -  _b _lb__,   - _
"me. t"116  l d_ _an   _.                                      se ems  Samoan.               1110 lb   _1 04 . - _
Sib. (lb. lb Sib WI                             ip -  WI -    llb.   WII~~~~~ WIil lbablb1-10 WAle
V-_ -W e-                                                                        l -  -     a b- .         or  lt-A
_ _  _     - - -          h     -     _    l -~~l lb_                    W     bb I5.epq    5   4   al
-b a    lb   _om 0~   ft bIb.-: .3                  -f w   WI _b.          lb-. _q _bml _,                  k_ .__
lb. lb Sib lb  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lfv b -o  eq *aft
O-a-          _           on" -_ .~ b an"                                                W lt _-                        _ __
--_   dM.WIO   .~O             I Om    Wi  -_  _   _   _   _I                                               -   -   _ _   _    -me _ 
oweme111  _                           _                               lb       "      .. _    _     _ 7      - _   l
W       e - -i           - W- .               -.. w..........     _
WI  WI  *_ _bb   *_         45   WI lb  lb                                      _.  _.        _  W                    _
mo            - ~   _      ;._z- movsu  "MM_ - _ _-                                     .6iff_
.                   b---W-- f  54    -w lb G mm l
=5 inbl lb                                                                                                 :__._ l 1
_                 -__   lb 54 WI                                     -    ==b lbW=: b
m_~~W   =b    lS. ia.S _b~5   lbSl_
_b~b lb            _I _b _  b '                                                           w. lb 'b  lb lblb  -- _ W- l    -b-W 4  ft-_
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O  --a_t                                                       _ t _  ----le  Mr_ M"_ @M  oom
lb 54 WI lb  WIlbI    AWI 5543 lb lbWI - lb-l1S  lba Oft%5W -  WIt   W lb 1516  .5WW    lb.
_.5 lb            _ _           _t lb  i  eb _ I lb I                         - o                                 -W M S _      u m.
lb   b  bl   b         q b455 - -  - Mmb--.   WI..                       --   ll                  PM5 lbbeW              WIS
5.4 lb moow SW ebeqnIW  5                                 Walwom1. WI-I. -  WIA. 1s               lblb SW
_I lb _i              _    =        lbS5 _b __  WI_  lb                            e  e  i**,         _ _bl                  Il
ft.d          waol  l      em Svwn   -W     mm.  orWb  lle
ellibe   W , elllb       lb  bSlb-lbb    -                     lb..    -...-        eL -  W          I        l
_ _ ~ ~ ~ ~~C4 _f6to  got__-  w_   
55, val"         lbIIlb an  ~ * l.... Wel 1 6                                 II     q     W1'I   5                 e
S~~~~~g   _w                                                          _on"    _                             0- _ f_,-mo. -4tw--|        
lS_.  _b _lb    J_SW3 [ _   _i                        ,                              - _ _ _ _ _ _ _              _      5
__ _____        _    q..- lb  WI    __  b _b  
p- mani-dlo,b                                                      ii 5(IWI.AlblI  (SIe  eba Ott now     onns-n,  .4 --
LAmm-mIS-- -       belbw- o, -q-                M-10:251          M   .wl          W  IS  w   b   .d
_ _ __ _ _d_ _ _ a_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-.1800                              .  _ _0     _lo   ow" m-     In  _-now   F   .r _.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _-__ _ _   -   b i . . ( q   i e l .   b e e . b   s
IS -    . lb ibIlb (5 lb. lb tWI -            eq  0~         ~       ~        1m  .wI bW1                O -1 , -, ft     m..  -
A--            -   m - oms            _                  bb
lar Mw    I --           -L       -lnewI- 5-. lbSllon,                                                d lln,lb ma  o
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ -   W I  N W   I b l b   -   W I   e q   b e.   l b   l b   5 I   m o n o m e r-- WI  l b,l b   5 4 o w b f   m l
l   *lili   _b _   lbl    i.                                                              -  ___   
2. WSW WU op   nnMonOn  beW   SW _ SU
W "lbl-                                 ftb.& -  b S WI                       b a            I    Ilwlbl beowl           54  WIlF
_~~~ _I eq _e                                         454 l  W 4
_elOW _ - _ lb _  -blbl _lb54 54 _ib. ,_b. lb_liM                      .    e1ql1 *v.                  W   -ft 1mom
lb.                                                                           IW  bel-WIlble 4 .nl1  w"b  b.. 5l54  WIF
-   - WI         eq      l~~~~~~~~~        54 115W  Mb lblb   545W~~~~~~~~~~&~b   lb  -l  e lb
1    lbA Mo.4 "ft ." Me WIlbb                l.5 
- ~~~.-              -         eq1mr      ele          Wab             m   a-lb          w-oS9Ia.t-  -
-  eq -  -    lb IlibIb  eq  -  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~Lm   r-    "                            r-ow-            -
W     e   -1-    54mf .51     -00   WI.-f eq.M                  MNOE     -b   W  
anWI    am lb15Wllbb 4m    5W0        GE.  U    lb . r               M            ~- -     me - M SWW     om to          toho. "M
SW   ldlgL  ~~~~~~~~~~~q~bSs W.lbl l                                                   ?b..
- WI F5 awwo W-                              lor        -mlon WI  on  -h..    eq ,ss-,
lb lb lb lb  I.1  lb.            W eq ad" ft . 540n                                                           MMbl   q-~5    IW  .l S-   @
a WI         weo                                                                            -.con               - FlbibSbl 
41"abasOF    *439%.                  WIS                        e54         I       Ie        55. .I   If
SW. lbIbb  lb  SW       .         .~PROM  nwat of P-.Sb.l    W    I W                                -  me wlh-tbyb "ao 
lbl lbF  "S  54 lb  WI -   lbSekd o  1116  54f ft. WI-WI*Al,                           I-ble  bIn                    il   4l
lbtlb lb  WI  51154 Wa        pmb s- 11mm,
.Emm lb  lbllW WO   m  eq    I 5q5    lb elib fin "l SW p-                                     -    paP-Wh&.-
eM -Nw fn SWIPI eq WI0 Lof sW "M - I 5WIl
be  WI  b hIPh  15414. lb l   lb  WImt -                                   -                              -e - e       .tow
54lb   -  WI l    lb 54 WI - Mool (WI. 554 lbN.  SW?              lb I4 W                  bll5lW             lb     I    Lb
WI        Sm(~~~~~~~on a- l                       54nn toop
ton L    W                                     M.~~I  bWI      SWM          ~UlE54W
~I.isuau.h.m A.szaNM - Awfb  -wf OF.  au.m   ---  e...  iM,b                                                      l
VOW_M_a_____On__l,____-M  Wm. OW eq am               W  lb
lbon - lb lb   WI Sib IIWI lb. NW  lb S    W          t                                                                      lm
eq  ..rr  ~~~~~~~..  ~     lawsh" ow-J.-u-b-ti
lb          b  5 NW --W  -WI "nor an 4. Wl..=f Wbl  5
Wml  5    I~l amOL.V          &"Nm6 f.o
-mmo-~I *on""s- . VAnn- W                      Ma



roFU3tem  .M71m0 CM4=                                                             - 29 -                                                      AU
W  For Captive 6L3.1 CsamS Wt                                                                                                                 Pop lefD
~~et 6.1181mm mm     66mg. hinAot  lw i   ()                     SWM OF IW at Mrst Pra.n 33
at _w t Wpinm                  g.t c_mbet MD wrimen                            t4t   w       11ren  ptis
"men    tat m,    no          a   v    MuD-l   7 .3    mis73   ..   mm        Om        isi      O         "of       mm       VW
ers dtic I        -ifet      3.75       371.       .31       jai"       5.3       0.2      4.3  6200.                 1         1. . 1.3  1000     100.0     mm3.6
AgrkenIb.                   Uve  *       7       1.5t       9.2S      3.S       5.2       34      31J   S    .5    523         VA        3.0    J.4s        273
1_an&Y                      S.3       10.*.      0.3        3.4       0.2       a.       2. Z      5.7      37       3.3       3.7       3.0       2.4      2.4
Swg                          2 R.17   23.3       34w       25.51      5i        7.2      5.1      46.2      4"      414        dt7      AM        1.        21.3
COMtIa                       3.34       a6m1      32.6     350          U                 4.3        5       15.2     62        7.7    71A.    7 .            ."
gs  mont                      3.31      10.1      i.*47   34 I.26      531        1.3      7.5      X.S nJ0            VIA        5.2     3.2        5.5      2.7
 s       __ of p f S ad 5Ws  Si         41.01     4.3       3.5        3.2       4.3      1.2      2S.5      2.        M5s.     xiJ       2.:3     VII       5.2
be"  .3 pate _sa              5.54      5.321      5.464     4.50       di       0.        7.3   W    .       22       "A        1i       Si.3      26.2     31.7
Crum MUmme W*Jts              5._        BAN       7.16      7.4        Si        S5       3          .4      25       "A.    t     t          3.5  7 .       19.2
Coel tl_. OF M_e__le Tdr C1M
got  rt   -eld
*g15~   1153       23M 1115           230      Is"       151      1233
HIglSE 1A
rmela._ Ewt OM                4.:nz      3.31      3.5       3.tTF      33       .t1       1.J    I00A                   .      20J   101.1    in            100
05w 3b2.7.0                            1.93       2.36      2.35      2J        1.4       2.3   n2          72.1      12.2     15.       533        .       5.
05j      =__ru               33I        7$7       12         51       -       5.3        7.1       _       33       5.5       31_7      77J7     55        D.33
0ab1r                         154 sat                         40       - <J              0.5        -S        4             _    .       1.       12.53      3.3S
S_ S7 n B 311 tWO SJ Xtl S tJ S l 0 L S    b                        -                           ]F T       .
3106.33.. 3~~b (C2fl   4.50;     1.219      5410      4.15      3.          i      2.        053     250       23.       0.        0.3      253      1
Cawl                          SW         52        As4        53     2           .1      3.5       2.        7.2      21.3      0.4      6.        5.9       6.
Petrha                        so         73        my        705    -1A        M3A       4139     z2         -        V.A      I.s       2.1      32.       14.2
gsewt_r -  _Plt              3.4e l,   32        2,eK       2.30     SLI       -.1       17.5     157         a.s   35.        12.3       M3      NsA        373
Caw'                        2.251      2.3       Z.16       2.07      I3   Y     .       40      s12        5t.3    S3.        aL2      47.4      33        a.2
PMMS~~~~~t Age 107 Wz IF"   diNY J 
3w  _tE 36.                           27.0     23.         55        21.3       t7.1      3K.1       2.        21.4      33       I3J
15mq. mt.                             26.2       5L.       33.7      IA         5.1       4e2J       *.          . S.    4.1      5.9
Ewt t ri l_n                         36. 2      33   X 5.            !21.9     3s.2 SsIIJ           713.      53.    1.0"    2.MA
2u.t saw ["ft.                       215.      "S.2       5I.2      315.       31.0      526.2      52.1      733S    36.    1.56.7
r... e It_  lo                         3.7      32.8      226.1     1l.? ISS4            117.1      14         210.1    OKt.A     14.9
1970          2S37        lst           1292          1293
PO3LIC FINAS"c *
c-.rv.- 10.....                ,_.                                                            S.2           1.3           7.0          7.9            0.2
C.rreat *s.4tr.6 5.2                                                                                        *.1           7.3           *.s           1.0
S.rpl.e 6-1 .'  ef1ict (-1                                                                   3.0           3.2            -          -3.5          -0.3
Capitol e  .0    i...                                                                         4.5           3.5           3.3          3.s            5.1
Ferigs fI.e-.l.  3/                                                                           1.4           0.2           1.2          0.9            0.2
I96C-70       1270-73      1275-43
OTERS lSDrATOSs
CUP gr.t% rots 522                                                                           5.30          5.43          4.13
CUP per ceplta 9retb  .1. CZ)                                                                2.00          4.00          2.17
Luwugy ceos*- tl-e. gusI  '.t. 61"                                                           5.00          4.60          4.00
IConS                                                                                       3.54          3.70          7.45
MergIesi sols  ret.2                                                                         0.23          0.34          0.25
Ieprt *2e.nt3cty                                                                           12.7           0.12          1.77
s*  World Sek Atlas Ut1<d.
6/E.tI.ute.d
A At _sket prJc.s2  Cw so.ts are *.preesee at fctsr mest sea .382  et odd betwee mt  socl.st-- of _t ledir.ct Cases aed sbeldils.
Mr  Iadtcs  e base   . 137e300.
.1 Ceatral Ad"Iflet'etl9w.
*J  Erege  64tburee_mets of *.termsl te-.* te the e.tire pablic se..
Loged see Year.
I lrmwert to gras  domestic se-l-sg            scro t to gros. l.stIc prje ct.
Septuber 20. It0
Cel_1.e Olie,.le



em   lomisd.
-e-e -sa    - 116
| -  qu ~p SmeM   qMIM g. Pe mA
60a    6--0   l         610    910       Ila     6.0     6.      6.0      I                             maio9   313J(mAi   awago
eo     lo       VIe    slD    IMI       VI       see     WV      we       VIe                           co *"i    Vol
S-c     r       -o     sa   re          ri      SIC     61       rm      6-seMs NV gqujm*aj M w                      V
re      sn      ru      sli      rn      r6a     L16     61       va s     n rn           w  mmd -Aism     -soa. ml
LIZ    31       6        re      61      16     51      ra       1X      re 51m  r3sc alo ml
J,  8s  a mmW
cm  cm       1arg   CrZil  Cron   619    C6r         eIra    Ira    ceol                                   ^"lftd
C6-53    %I"1    gnu    (LL31   (31.1   (slI   (63,    cm2    VW16   (6-661m"                           s     13134350lle
31     331    6r1      3)      r1      sel             63       rs      vg                            an z3 13- dgaa
Cr I    s       ia        VaDr    IN              s- CM rSa    1 -                                          00 C.rnji
gmal *se  to             us      i       ME      SL       Et      sr      In                     opm        MIo  leop  al
6-at    6-u     e-n      S-S     ieU    s-L      s-L     rs       s      ez           ss_ _a.  _e   - qipaawu  de.a-
OO     r2      63      S1l    r2 a       l a      t      sl      an                                     Iva d    *    _3
316   e-aI    321       0.3      ra     M s-     0'C  36          1-16    51                                   Jj@
UK  MIX   swlz    m't    wll   ime  m  us                              eal p s      im  q.d
gSS     am     ate       eg     tm       ane     m       cm      gm       cm0                            * 
303C    16       5      E S 16                   316     3   nc    e3                 Z         PI  e~    NS 3310. 
63     15       El2    Z f l53         5031  e 3    36          1                                      em eo  " 
msLe    36I  Ino   tiWi   cu3m    16    mg             cme    cm"    cmon
a612   ii       iZi    a(t   (6z Z 3            as i   eCo      Lc        Ws                                    e
Cii6-&   an53 u  SIl  (3m        LBR       CISC)   (5512 un-u     aDi U    a                        
"a's   60111    tars   Galt   on's   6mt    zoVI    311t   16l3   sal                                         133WP  M fe ujh0 w
1u    ,C1       CU.      aWe   am        ail             D       gZ m      aD                s     U eD         a eo 
ULM  n X    cm                  e1      cm      an       cm      901)   cmlsUe  s as   e
cm      tau    cm       c         m32  2    )    (          l    CmIJ    i1 ,              0        -1            IXo
(e6i    SC  EiO   (331l    1o    6)         U2D    (IIU    16ID   (3113                          4M3131a
(36      (6)    15       321    (I        3      63)    (SC)* 9 133       6|0)U                                   melC  111-
sCOts.D  Igo    [AD tI          co)      co       153    t46    to        C5em lgua
cm)l   652      115)    CmD    (33       iS       5          0            maII  IUq Is-wqIeijsO
C-)     I-)     C-)     C-i    (-3       1-)     C-2     (-3      (-3     C-)                                      em
'5-, U    1 Z           la     s         cm      can     co"     W        a"                                  l 1"m
(63)    IL)     liC     CIX    (62       Co      (SI    U*D      (*D     0(' 33)1
a       s       Is               s       a       SU       eV      ap      A         s         b                  m__w_
L161    U1    u6-t&   SMW. al       so6     Ss      Ca       La      is                -m" ii p "NIa~$ uMi
_        _       _        _       _       -       -       -        -       -                               mud      1 0qus
= gamma MO
Cz       6z      3         E  rc`          6-3      rig    elm      s-fl    re       re              6                            sei  p loomr" _-Jews
iz61   met   *e-*    awl         es    ure    Go's   in's   sael   Z=V            oI   Siel   as           as              I1I31Us          ismlIm~    am.
*i- sc 71 re sz               iwe- es_ 79 srF eFp Zg                                            Z  e -o                     CMBUm   sogml obw
61-     Cg-  151        36-       617    !Wo   -i36        usa-  16-   0a-             '-            M--  6 7-m                 s s* -,m  J381" urn .b6
-        -       El-    65-        w5-    S1   U S1         3       K_-    WI        1%1  8 5        M_       IZ-                                13135 _o
Ou113    461    (Mi`  (01-)    () I         3SM5    gill"   Cu      cm      CM-3    6-i      1II    6-)    cm                                in-    iAa
LWI    Corn 3)(3U   CUD1           cum3    am65    geWi)  MD3   amp)   131          (IiB   613)    42    am1                                  *p  53i   0
Sm*    .1    me         31    EL'       me                      a        Sm      60      11      .11                4563   me _ags 3m  a
m        S[       W      do         M's me  me       w 15   5               AIP      so 33   31              la  16                5gw3.m  dla.i Pr-u sol
tf1-     0- 1-  LW1-  S            SW      az-    aso-       1      a     8          aI  _ 3         U-      it                     V       .       p
a6       s       a       a         us      a       zzg      n       a       n        a       a       K       ZZ                                u^on pH
aWl-    aWe-   IW&-  as--           all    M-    119-    us-    me-    am-    CIE-    Us-   cm-    zui-                       _uudi aum Wu
EL       33-     sW zi               l W-   506-6   616   w-- Dl   61     3i4      ir       w       NI      51 s6a-t  dnis-"
as-B    sfs    eusoal    ms       ma       E'S    us    *eWs    Ds'S Z' 3135    03-    Z03   ZSW             aW6-       _5J6  *       d 3363     qB
nes    s 's   5o6        on's 633  1.    aWe    uVe          M's    Kw%    SEP      DeaL   Sil    mial   Swa             gmt&M J63&-63 PM a" p _i aB
as  9" ,AI                         Gat Zo          SSs   Ins                IC"    tmf  a4           solz    iel         os        j*wPMW          
aur      nuS     siB     emu    T. US       nuS      nu3    o-          mB  ust    61        SnB     anU      KU
PMWOt                                                           Is"
1p s 4'                                         iela ain 3 On millPis                                           iS-I   tqiiiM JO
a3)6636g  mam      fl .3mUWdm A -3m                              (36143 awaa



- 31 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 4
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDI  IN COLOMBIA (as of March 31, 1984)
(US$.illion)
Loan                                                          Amount (less Cancellatiot-
Nuber Year Borrower                           Pp               Bank  IDA   Undisbursed
66 fully disbursed loans and one IDA credit                  1,406.1  23.5 1/   -
1163    1975  Colombia                       Agriculture        21.0             4.6
1352    1977  Colombia                       Rural Dev.         52.0             5.3
1357    1977  Banco de la Republica          Agricultural Cr. 64.0               1.1
1450    1977  Empresa Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones           Comznications    58.3              25.5
1471    1977  Colombia                        Righboys          90.0             7.3
1487    1978  Colombia                        Nutrition         25.0             8.1
1558    1978  Colombia                       Urban Develop-
sent            24.8            11.2
1582    1978  Interconexion Electrica, S.A. Power              126.0            20.1
1583    1978  Colombia                        Pover             50.0            11.2
1593    1978 Zona Franca Industrial y        Idustrial
Comercial de Cartagena         Ezport           15.0             4.5
1624    1979  Colombia                       Airports           61.0             1.9
1628    1979  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Pover              84.0             2.0
1694    1979  Colombia                       Urban Develop-
seat            13.5            10.1
1697    1979  Empresa de Acueducto y
Alcantarillado de Bogota     Water Supply       27.9             3.8
1725    1979  Interconexion Electrica, S.A.  Pover              72.0            35.7
1726    1979  Instituto Nacional de Posento
Municipal                    Water Supply       31.0            23.6
1737    1979  Instituto Colombiano de la
Reforma Agr--ia              Agriculture Cr.   20.0             12.7
1t Includes exchange adjustment of US$4.0 million.
The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 32 -
Annez1xf
Page 2 of 4
A. STATEMZUT OF NAM  LOANS AD XDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1964)
Number Year Borrower                         Purpose           Bank  IDk  Undisbursed
1807    1980 Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    power              87.0            49.3
1825    1980 Eupresas Publlcas de a edellin  Comunications    44.0              11.3
1834    1980 Banco de la Republic&           Industrial Cr.   32.0               2.2
1857    1980  Banco de la Uepublica          Industrial Cr.  150.0              85.9
1868    1980 Empresas Publicas de Nedellin  Pover              125.0            87.4
1953    1981 Empresas Pblilcas de NedeUlin  Pover               85.0            75.3
1966    1981 Colombia                        Rural Roads        33.0            18.2
1996    1981  Instituto Colombiano de
Hidrologia                   Irrigation         37.0            25.3
L999    1981  Corporacion Electric& de La
Costa Atlantica              Pover              36.0            26.0
2008    1981  Empresa de Energia Electrica
de Bogota                    Power             359.0           294.3
2069    1981  Instituto Nacional de los
Recursos Naturales
Renovables y del Medio       watershed
Aubiente                     Management          9.0             7.8
2090    1982  Ferrocarriles Nacionales de
Colombia                     Railways           77.0            77.0
2121    1982  Fonda Vial Nacional            Highways          152.3           139.4
2174    1982 Colombia                        Rural Develop-
mat             53.0            52.2
2192    1982 Fondo del Ninisterlo de
Educacion                    Rural Education   15.0             13.3
2303    1983  Instituto Colombiano           Agricultural
Agropecuario                   Research         63.4            62.7
234911  1983  Carbones de Colombia, S.A.     Coal
Exploration      9.5             9.5
23791/  1984 Colombia                        EartSquake Re-
construction    40.0            40.0
2401-1  1984 Financiera Electrica Nacional  Pover Develop-
ment Finance   170.0           170.0
TOTAL                                          3,818.8  23.5
Of vhich has been repaid                        837.5  4.1
Total nov outstanding                          2,981.3  19.4
Amount sold                         51.0          -
Of which has been repaid            51.0          -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                2,981.3  19.8
Tota.. undisbursed                                             1,435.8
1/ Not yet effective.



- 33 -
Annex 1I
Page 3 of 4
B. STATEDENT OF IFC INVESThBNTS (as of March 31. 1984)
Fiscal                                          Type of              Amount in US$ Million
year                   Obligor                   Business            Loan  Equlty   Total
1959           Lasinas del Caribe, S.A.         Fiber-board           .50              .50
1960-1965      Indust-%ias Allmeuticias
Noel, S.A.                    Food products        1.98    .08      2.06
1961           Envases Colomblanos, S.A.        Metal cans            .70      -        .70
1961-1968      Morfeo-Productoa para el
Hogar, S.A.                   Rome furniture        .08   .09        .17
1961           Electromanufacturas, S.A.        Electrical equipment .50       -       .50
1962           Corporacion Financiera            Development
Colombiana                       financing            -   2.02      2.02
1962-1963      Corporacion Financier.           Development
Nacional                         financing            -   2.04      2.04
1963-1967      Compania Colombiana de            Textiles            1.98    .15      2.13
1968-1969        Tejidos, S.A.
1964-1970      Corporacion Financiera de         Development
Caldas                           financing            -    .81       .81
1964-1968      Forias de Colombia, S.A.          Steel forging          -   1.27      1.?7
1966           Almacenes Generales de           Varehousing          1.00      -      1.00
Deposito Santa Fe, S.A.
1966           Industria Ganadera               Livestock            1.00    .58      1.5$
Colombiana, S.A.
1967-70-74     ENKA de Colombia, S.A.            Textiles            5.00   2.61      7.61
1969           Compania de Desarrollo de         Tourism                -    .01        .01
Hoteles y Turismo, Ltda.
CHOTURISMO)
1969-1973      Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Norte                            financing            -    .45       .45
1969           Corporacion Financiera del       Development
Valle                            financing            -    .43       .43
1970           Promotora de Hoteles de          Tourism               .23    .11       .34
Turismo Medellin, S.A.
1970-1977      Pro-Hoteles, S.A.                Tourism               .80    .24      1.04
1973-1975      Corporacion Colombiana de        Housing                 -    .46       .46
Ahorro y Vivienda
1974           Cementos Boyaca, S.A.            Cement               1.50      -      1.50
1975           Cementos del Caribe, S.A.        Cement               3.60      -      3.60
1976           Las Brisas                       Mining               6.00      -      6.00
1977           Promotora de la Interconexion
de los Gasoductos de la
Costa Atlantica S.A.          Utilities           13.00   2.00     15.00
1977           Compania Colombiana de Clinker,  Cement and
S.A.                             Construction
Material         0.97   1.76      2.73



- 34 -
Annez II
Page 4 of 4
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC DIVESTHENTS (as of March 31, 1984) (Continued)
Fiscal                                           Type of              Amount in US$ Million
Year                   Obligor                    Business            Loan   Equity   Total
1981           Leasing Bolivar                   Leasing              9.00    .17       9.17
1981-1982      Petroleos Coloubianos Ltd.         Chemicals and
Petrochemicals  12.15   3.86      16.01
1983           Frigorificos Colombianos, S.A.   Food Processing        1.00   0.54      1.54
1984           Cementos Rioclaro S.A.            Cement and
Construction
Material        21.91  5.00      26.91
1984           Carbones del Caribe S.A.          Mining              10.65  1.64      12.29
Total Gross Commitments                               93.55  26.32    119.87
Less cancellations, termina-
tions, repayments and sales                        62.28   9.60     71.88
Total commitments now held by IFC                     31.27  16.72      47.99
Total undisbursed (including                          33.56   7.06      40.62
participants)                                     -   -



- 35 -
ANNEX III
COLOMBIA
PETROLEUM PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Agency which prepared project:           ECOPETROL/Bank Consultants
(b) Much of the groundwork for the project had been done in connection
with a proposed project in 1979 and 1980 which did not go forward at
the time. Therefore, preparation of the present project was initiated
with the appraisal mission.
(c) Departure of Appraisal Mission:          February 1984
(d) Completion of Negotiations:              August 1984
"e) Planned Date of Effectiveness:           December 1984
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
A condition of disbursement tfr the Cano Limon-Rio Zulia pipeline would be
satisfactory contractual arrangements between ECOPETROL and Occidental
Petroleum Company for construction of the pipeline in accordance with a
feasibility study and financing plan, satisfactory to the Bank.  Approval. -y
the Bank of a feasibility study and evidence of contractual arrangements
between ECOPETROL and private companies would also be a condition of
disbursement for each of the field developments (para. 58)
Assurances have been obtained that ECOPETROL would:
(a) employ at least three qualified engineers for its Secondary Recovery
Unit (para. 38);
(b) initiate significant new investments only if they do not adversely
affect its capabilities to implement the proposed project (para. 41);
(c) review with the Bank its five-year financial projections, including
its investment prograa and financing plan, on an annual basis (para.
56); and
(d) improve its current ratio to 1.1 by 1986, earn operating income for
each fiscal year equivalent to at least 1.4 times debt service, and
maintain debt to equity ratio not greater than 60:40, based on
revalued assets (para. 56).



1   8urN^vlNIur^ o    /~~~/  .~* a                                                                                            '4prolrw},\.dS;
4'~~~~ / l                        |   V                                                                                 .      4 '
,,~~~ ,                                                        ,,A,\ _--' d''"''''.R'
COLOMBIA   \                                                                        N _2> 
PETROLEUM CONCESSIONS                                              
;; ANDBSEDIMENTARY BASINS                                                                                   BRA ZIL
'IAC      a FIeld.            XACOi Opertor's Name                                                                ;
* ,         - ,   Petroleum Concessions  iCaoino)FNDi*ld'* t4oin                                                .                     ',' ,' I,,,,, ,,
.00~~~~~~~~~~~
PET    Ol '.                                                           PERSU                     / 
:IjS;.,:      Oi' Iroducts              D.pa!tmq,f ~ourkXeblOr  rsNme
~MP-     Pleelds                  itroinlBudre                                                 4MIm~oepa
J,h." 



RI
ATI AtNrri~            I
4'~ 4
BUENAVENTURA ~ ~ ~ ~  ~      ~       ~      ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~UDMITNYB a, 



