Report No. PIC5482
Project Name                     Cape Verde-Social Sector Development Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Poverty Reduction
Project ID                       CVPE432
Borrower                         Republic of Cape Verde
Implementing Agency              AGECABO
(an agency for the execution of works
in the public interest)
Contact in Cape Verde:
Mr. Gualberto do Rosario
C.P. 30, Praia, Cape Verde
Tel: 238-61-58-46
Fax: 238-6-19-22
Date PID Prepared                August 7, 1997
Projected Appraisal              July 1998
Projected Board Date             November 1998
Background
Of Cape Verde's estimated 400,000 people, close to 30t live in
poverty, and about 14t in absolute poverty. Poverty is
predominately a rural phenomenon: 70t of the poor and 85t of the
ultra-poor are in rural areas. The incidence of poverty is highest
among illiterate and female-headed households. Some 40t of all
households in Cape Verde are headed by females and over a third are
in poverty. The high unemployment rate in Cape Verde (25%) is a key
correlate of poverty, with 44% of households headed by an
unemployed and poor person. The food security is precarious. The
Sahelian climate with prolonged periods of drought, a marked
shortage of fresh water, and an annual natural population increase
rate of 1.9% (thus doubling the population over 36 years), produce
intolerable pressures on the fragile resource base. Rural poverty
is a principal cause of environmental degradation. Since 67T of the
land is hilly and non-productive, the remaining land is intensively
cultivated, resulting in major land degradation and declining soil
fertility. Even in years with good rains, Cape Verde produces only
60% of its food requirement. Despite these harsh conditions, Cape
Verde's social indicators are better than the Subsaharan Africa
averages, though some are now deteriorating. In 1990, 98% of
children were immunized against polio by their first year; but in
1993 only 789 of children were immunized. The lack of access to
safe water and adequate sanitation is a major health problem. Only
34% of the rural population have access to safe water; they face
long walks to public distribution points, sometimes more than 2 km.
away. Per capita water consumption is only 12.5 liters/day in rural
areas. The sanitary waste disposal poses another serious health
problem. Ninety percent of the rural population has no access to
sanitation. In the rapidly growing urban areas, the lack of



sanitation is becoming a major health problem.
The Ministry of Economic coordination is preparing its IVth
National Development Plan for the period 1997-2001. This plan
includes the National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) which
targets the 30t poor. Several donors are helping Cape Verde with
pilot operations, but there has never been a systematic,
coordinated approach to poverty reduction. It is expected that the
NPAP will draw these programs together, thereby improving the
allocation and use of both government and donor-supplied resources.
Objectives
The project aims to support the National Poverty Alleviation
Program (NPAP) and extend and deepen the impact of reforms
initiated by the ongoing IDA-assisted Public Sector Reform and
Capacity Building project. The overall development objectives are:
(i) to reduce poverty among the 30t of the poorest population; (ii)
to support the decentralization to municipalities of targeted
poverty alleviation activities; (iii) to build the capacity of
municipalities and NGOs for high impact and cost-effective poverty
alleviation interventions.
The specific objectives are: (i) to assist in the restructuring of
the welfare-oriented public works program (FAIMO) by creating an
institutional capacity; (ii) to empower communities in poverty
zones to build, through self-help, needed economic and social
infrastructure; (iii) to enhance the self-employment and income-
earning opportunities of poor women; and (iv) to establish a
capacity to coordinate, monitor and evaluate all social sector
programs and assure their targeting.
Description
The project components are: (i) a Public works and Employment
Creation component; (ii) a fund for local initiatives; (iii) a
social sector monitoring and evaluation component. All three
components will be executed by a public-interest management unit.
Financing
Total project costs are estimated at about SDR 9.2 million (US$
13.2 million), disbursed over 5 years.
Implementation
A commission for the National Poverty Alleviation Program (with
members from all relevant ministries, the Association of Mayors,
NGOs and churches) will provide the policy guidance and
coordination for all social sector programs in Cape Verde.
Sustainability
The sustainability of the NPAP will be helped considerably by the
program approach and the close coordination envisaged among the key
donors. Other factors which would help are: (a) the ability of
-2 -



Government to accept to redefine its role and provide continuous
support to the municipalities; (b) use of beneficiary assessments
for yearly reprogramming; (c) transparency in allocation and
management of resources; and (d) other factors to be identified.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Bank's lessons from establishing twelve AGETIPs (Agency for the
Execution of Works in the Public Interest) in SSA and on improving
equity were used for the design of this program, namely targeted
public spending toward interventions servicing the poor. The
proposed program also drew lessons from the mid-term evaluation of
the implementation of the Third National Development Plan 1992-95,
published in January 1995, and which emphasized the need to (i))
promote private sector-led sustainable growth per capita; (ii)
develop a sound employment promotion policy and strengthen safety
nets; (iii) improve human capital and productivity of the poor; and
(iv) improve monitoring of poverty reduction efforts and better
targeting of the poor. All these lessons are reflected mainly in
the highly targeted choice of beneficiaries and of activities, and
in the choice of creating an AGETIP-like structure to create
employment in a sustainable way.
Poverty Category
The proposed project is a targeted intervention project, directly
assisting the poorest populations (specifically female-headed
households) in the country.
Environmental Aspects
This is a category C project. As emphasized in paragraph 1, rural
poverty is a principal cause of environmental degradation.
Consequently, this poverty-focused project should have an
distinctly positive impact on the environment.
Program Objective Categories
This would be a health and poverty investment project with a focus
on improving the quality of life in rural Cape Verde (category PA).
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 15, 1997.
-3 -



