                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                                 Report No: 33502-CV

                      IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                      (IDA-32240 PPFI-Q0710 TF-29258 IDA-32241)

                                       ON A

                                      CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 14.8 MILLION (US$20.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                               TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                   CAPE VERDE

                                       FOR A

                      SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                  September 28, 2005




Human Development II
Country Department 14
Africa Region

                                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective April 1999 (Appraisal))

                                     Currency Unit = Escudos
                                   94.515 Escudos = US$ 1
                                             US$ 1 = 0.01058

                                           FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1 - December 31

                              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AfDB        Africa Development Bank                INE           National Statistics Institute
ACDI/VOCA-DAgricultural Cooperative Development    INERF         Instituto Nacional de Engenharia
GASP       International-General Directorate of                  Rural e Florestas (National Institute
           Agriculture, Silviculture and Fisheries               of Rural Engineering and Forestry)
AGETIP     Agence d'exécution de travaux d'intérêt KPI           Key Performance Indicator
           public (Executing Agency for Public
           Works)
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy             MIS           Management Information System
CVE        Cape Verdian Escudos                     MOD          Maître d'ouvrage délégué
                                                                 (Delegated Contract Management)
DCMA       Delegated Contract Management            MTR          Mid-term Review
           Agency
D.G.       Director General of AGECABO              NCB          National Competitive Bidding
E.U.       European Union                           NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
FAM        Fonds d'appui aux municipalités          NPAP         National Poverty Alleviation
           (Support Fonds to Municipalities)                     Program
FAIMO      Frente a Alta Intensidade de Mano de     PCU          Program Coordination Unit
           Obra (Labor Intensive Funds)
GoCV       Government of Cape Verde                 PPF          Project Preparation Facility
GTI        Inter-Municipal Technical Cabinet        PROMEF       Education and Training
                                                                 Consolidation and Modernization
                                                                 Project (Projecto de Consolidação e
                                                                 de Modernização da Educação e
                                                                 Formação)
GTM        Municipal Technical Cabinet              PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
ICB        International Competivie Bidding         PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support Credit
IDRF       Inquérito às despesas e receitas as     SSDP          Social Sector Development Project
           familiares (Expenditures and Income
           Household Survey)
IFAD       International Fund for Agricultural     TOR           Terms of Reference
           Development



                                   Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani
                                 Country Director:     Madani M. Tall
                                  Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:           Johanne Angers

                                           CAPE VERDE
                                    Social Sector Development


                                            CONTENTS




                                                                                 Page No.
   1. Project Data                                                                    1
   2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
   3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
   4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
   5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            14
   6. Sustainability                                                                16
   7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 18
   8. Lessons Learned                                                               20
   9. Partner Comments                                                              21
   10. Additional Information                                                       21
   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             22
   Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             25
   Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             31
   Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             35
   Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
   Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
   Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40
   Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution                                                 43
MAP: IBRD 33383

Project ID: P000432                                                  Project Name: Social Sector Development
Team Leader: Johanne Angers                                          TL Unit: AFTH2
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: September 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Social Sector Development                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-32240; PPFI-Q0710;
                                                                                                     TF-29258; IDA-32241
   Country/Department: CAPE VERDE                                                         Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (94%); Central government administration
                            (6%)
                  Theme: Improving labor markets (P); Social safety nets (P); Participation
                            and civic engagement (S); Poverty strategy, analysis and monitoring
                            (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/03/1997                                     Effective: 10/04/1999                10/04/1999
     Appraisal: 02/11/1999                                         MTR: 10/09/2001                  10/09/2001
      Approval: 05/25/1999                                      Closing: 08/31/2003                 03/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF CAPE VERDE/MINISTRY OF LABOR AND
                                           SOLIDARITY
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Madani M. Tall                                 Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager:                 Alexandre V. Abrantes                          Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader at ICR:             Johanne Angers                                 Tonia Marek
ICR Primary Author:             Maurizia Tovo; Johanne Angers;
                                Serge Theunynck


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Project Development Objective was to contribute to poverty reduction among the 30 percent of the
population living below the poverty line by: (a) assisting the Government of Cape Verde (GoCV) in the
restructuring of the labor-intensive public works program (FAIMO) by creating an institutional capacity
(AGECABO) to execute public works that are: (i) economically and/or socially useful; (ii) executed
cost-effectively by the private sector; and (iii) based on labor-intensive techniques; (b) building the
capacity of municipalities, communities and NGOs, in planning, implementing and monitoring
cost-effective poverty alleviation interventions; and (c) establishing a central capacity to coordinate,
monitor and evaluate the 1998-2002 National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP).

The FAIMO system was instituted in the early 1980s as the main Government's strategy to provide food
security through labor-intensive public works programs (FAIMO) that created jobs, particularly during the
rainy season (July-August) when food is most scarce. Given the recurrent famines and the low-income
levels at the time, the dependency of the poor on the FAIMO employment system was quite strong,
particularly in the agricultural sector. Hence FAIMO was used predominantly as a welfare mechanism for
the poor, which provided no incentive for improved productivity. With Cape Verde approaching
middle-income levels, concerns for a sustainable approach to employment and improved productivity were
the main reasons for Government's decision to decrease FAIMO dependency. The intention was to move
from a centrally planned, forced account approach to one driven by community demand and handled at the
municipal level.

Project objectives evolved out of the NPAP, which formed an integral part of the broader National
Development Plan (1997-2001), and were fully consistent with the overall country strategy of Cape Verde
as well as with the Bank's 1997 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS, report no. 17206-CV). In particular,
they (a) supported NPAP objectives to improve the coordination, allocation, and effectiveness of both
government and donor resources to alleviate poverty, and (b) supported the priorities identified in the CAS,
namely, sustaining macroeconomic stability, encouraging private sector development, improving human
development --especially of women and children, and decentralizing responsibilities and resources to
municipalities. However, the project objectives could have been expressed in a more streamlined fashion,
without "layering" (one overall objective with three specific objectives), and it probably would have been
better to limit the objectives to the three specific objectives, especially given the inherent difficulty of
proving the contribution of a single project to a goal as ambitious and general as poverty reduction.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Social Sector Development Project (SSDP) consisted of two components, which were:

Public Works and Employment Creation (US$16.6 million with original credit and US$4.0 million with
supplemental credit). This component aimed at (a) providing a viable alternative for FAIMO workers; (b)
decentralizing public works based on community-defined priority activities using private sector principles
through a delegated contract management approach; (c) reinforcing NGO capacity to work with
communities, as NGOs were to be contracted to mobilize poor communities and assist them in designing
and implementing activities; and (d) building capacity of municipalities, NGOs, and small entrepreneurs
through training and targeted technical assistance. The project, therefore, was to finance economic and
social sub-projects, technical assistance, operating costs, and training. The objectives of this component



                                                        - 2 -

were to be achieved primarily by setting up a delegated contract management agency (AGECABO)
drawing on the success and lessons learnt from the AGETIPs experience in Sub-Saharan Africa.
Assistance to form local small-scale associations was to be provided to "FAIMO-type" workers with
training in technical skills and contract management. Only sub-projects between US$20,000-800,000
equivalent were eligible for financing. Community activities costing less than US$20,000 equivalent could
consist of self-help projects that aim at improving the living conditions of the poor especially in the areas of
health, hygiene, education, environment, nutrition and food security.

Capacity Building (US$1.5 million with original credit and US$0.4 million with supplemental credit).
This component aimed at (a) providing support to the Program Coordination Unit (PCU) created in August
1998 for the implementation of the NPAP, whose main roles were to (i) coordinate the NPAP; (ii) liaise
with donors to finance poverty reducing interventions; (iii) check eligibility of subprojects included in
municipal annual programs and transmit them to a Program Approval Commission; and (iv) select
implementation agencies for the execution of sub-projects; (b) finance limited studies and suveys
(beneficiary assessments) to monitor the project impact, thus complementing the existing poverty
monitoring activities of the Government; and (c) finance technical and financial audits. The project was to
finance investment and recurrent costs of the PCU, technical assistance, training, equipment, and limited
operating costs.

The two components were clearly related to the specific Project Development Objectives.

3.4 Revised Components:
No formal revision of the components took place. However, on June 20, 2001, about US$1.1 million of the
original credit was reprogrammed towards financing the implementation of the National Household Income
and Expenditure Survey (known as IDRF) in view of an urgent national need to develop a poverty profile to
underpin the Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) when no alternative sources of financing, either
domestic or foreign, were available. Given the close relationship with the development objective of
increasing capacity to monitor poverty, the addition contributed significantly to the institutional
development impact of the project.

At mid-term review (October 2001) it was agreed that the employment indicators contained in the PAD had
to be revised in light of the new disbursement projections, the wages for "FAIMO type" workers and the
attainable levels of employment in the subprojects. In particular, it was aknowledged that original
estimates for employment creation had been overly optimistic, as they assumed an 85 percent labor content,
which is virtually impossible for anything but streetsweeping, while the most labor-intensive type of work
in the portfolio, rehabilitation of cobblestone roads, has only a 45 percent labor content. The initial key
project performance indicators were therefore reviewed (e.g., overall employment creation from 104,000
person/months to 28,271), but not formally revised, that is, the Credit Agreement was not amended. A
formal revision of the project key performance indicators was instead done at the time of the supplemental
credit, which was approved by the Board on December 16, 2003. This revision addressed the gross
overestimate of employment creation by (a) lowering the target for overall employment creation from
104,000 person/months to 16,750 person/months (including the supplemental credit), and (b) lowering the
target for direct employment of FAIMO-type workers from 20,500 to 13,800 (including the supplemental
credit). At the same time, a new indicator was introduced to monitor activities planned to foster
sustainability.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry is considered unsatisfactory.




                                                      - 3 -

Strategic relevance. Bank's support clearly responded to the Government overall strategy on poverty and
the Bank's CAS priorities as stated in their respective documents (see Section 3.1 above).

Weaknesses in Quality at Entry. Several weaknesses in key areas of project design were identified by the
ICR team. Perhaps the most glaring was the gross overestimation of the original Key Performance
Indicators (KPI) related to employment creation, both overall direct employment and for FAIMO-type
workers. Initially set at 104,000 person/months and 20,500 person/months, respectively, they were
reviewed twice during project implementation in light of the obvious impossibility of reaching them
--informally during the mid-term review, and formally at the time of the supplemental. While the final
outcome in terms of employment creation compares favorably to similar projects, having started the
operation with such overambitious targets gives the impression that preparation was not carried out as
carefully as it should have been. Linked to this shortcoming was the lack of an adequate monitoring and
evaluation system to ascertain the reliability of employment creation. The project collected an impressive
amount of information, but there were no systems in place to exploit this wealth of information for
monitoring and evaluation purposes. This may be due in part to efforts to keep recurrent costs low, and
therefore limit AGECABO's and PIU personnel, but it appears that more thinking would have been needed
from the onset on how to use the data collected. The capacity building component as well could have
benefitted from more careful definition. The original project design described in Annex 2 of the PAD
envisaged training for the PCU staff (topic not specified) as well as limited training for NGOs to facilitate
implementation of Component 1. On the other hand, the section on expected benefits included "capacity
building of municipalities and participating NGOs in planning, monitoring and financial accounting [for] a
more rational and efficient approach to social sector investments". Including a KPI related to capacity
building would have facilitated monitoring and assessment of this component. Finally, anther weakness
found in quality at entry is the quality of the economic analysis presented in the project document.

Choice of Approach. The approach to be adopted for implementing sub-projects was the origin of much
debate between the Bank and the Government. While the Bank recommended the establishment of an
Agetip-type outfit (AGECABO) based on demonstrated successful experience in the sub-region,
Government argued for open competition among the various national entities (e.g., firms, NGOs) to
participate as potential Delegated Contract Management Agencies (DCMAs). During negotiations, it was
decided that any eligible DCMA besides AGECABO be allowed to execute Component 1, provided that the
said DCMA was selected in accordance with the Bank's guidelines through a competitive process of
quality-cost based method of selection. Given the fact that Capo Verde at the time was transitioning from a
socialist to a market-based economy, a delegated contract management agency was probably the best
compromise to support the development of a nascent private sector without sacrificing implementation
effectiveness. In addition, the choice of supporting the decentralization process while empowering civil
societies and municipalities was sound.

Readiness for Implementation. Key preparatory activities supported by a PHRD trust fund (Yen 16.6
million) and a PPF (US$750,000) helped finance: studies, project manuals, capacity assessments, pilot
activities in four municipalities, the establishment of AGECABO and of a project management information
system. However, the component on capacity building could have benefited from greater definition at its
onset, particularly on the type of training and targeted groups (see above), considering that the project was
to be originally implemented within a relatively short period (four years) at a time when little institutional
capacity existed at the central and, more importantly, at the decentralized levels. The PCU was created by
a Government Resolution in 1998 to design, coordinate, monitor and ensure the execution of the NPAP.
Therefore, some of its staffing was already in place prior to effectiveness. Delays in project start-up
occured due to government lack of familiarity with the delegated contract management approach, work
overload of the PCU/NPAP (which was simultaneously involved in the preparation of projects financed by


                                                      - 4 -

other donors), changes in the PCU/NPAP leadership, local government turn-over due to municipal elections
in April 2000, as well as few factors specific to the project such as delays in the signature of the first
convention with AGECABO and related dibursement of the first tranche.

Candid Assessment of Risks. The risks identified were: (a) AGECABO would not develop into an
effective and efficient agency and no other DCMA would be available; (b) insufficient and ineffective
coordination of the various donors; (c) inadequate cash flow available by donors and Government to
support program activities; (d) delay in the implementation of FAIMOs reform; (e) no sharing of
information among government agencies and other partners; (f) difficult collaboration between political
parties that may hinder devolving responsibilities to municipalities --particulalry, those controlled by the
opposition; and (g) unwillingness by certain municipalities to delegate certain responsibilities to DCMAs.
The ICR team concurs that the project risks were appropriately identified and the minimization measures
were correct. During project implementation such measures were employed and gave good results as none
of the risks was ever fully realized. The only risk partially realized was the one related to municipalities
unwillingness to delegate certain responsibilities to outside agencies, but the final evaluation suggests that
most municipalities had come around and readily recognized the advantages of the DCMA approach.

Bank's safeguard policies. Environmental risks were adequately addressed through systematic
environmental assessments of all sub-projects according to the Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds,
October 1998. Environmental analysis evaluation grids were filled in for each sub-project and if further
analysis were warranted, the local contrators and/or municipalities were to ensure that mitigating measures
would be undertaken in a timely fashion. The approach was reviewed at the time of the supplemental in
late 2003, and it was found acceptable.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the project is moderately satisfactory.

The project objectives remain highly relevant in today's context. At the time of project preparation, the
reduction of unemployment was correctly identified as an effective way to alleviate poverty on the basis of
the information available (the 1988-89 household budget survey). Analysis carried out with the 2001-02
data from the IDRF confirms that unemployment is still a crucial determinant of poverty, with the poverty
incidence being 49 percent among the unemployed, as opposed to 37 percent among the general population
(see Poverty Diagnostic green cover, para. 3.6). Beneficiary assessments carried out in 2003 and 2005
confirm that unemployment is largely perceived (i.e., by over 80 percent of respondents) as one of the main
causes of poverty, and the Government Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper (PRSP) in 2004 notes that
poverty remains high because unemployment remains high, regional disparities exist and emigration has
declined. Thus, the Government sees the improvement of the productive capacity of the poor as a major
element of its strategy. The objectives related to capacity building at the central and decentralized levels
are also still relevant, as suggested by the inclusion of capacity building elements in the PRSC (e.g.,
improving human resource capacity in the public administration is a medium-term objective identified in
2004).

An alternative to the traditional labor-intensive public works programs (FAIMO) was successfully
established by creating a delegated contract management agency (development objective 1). The main
instrument for poverty reduction envisaged by the project was "the creation of institutional capacity to
execute works that are (a) economically and/or socially useful; (b) executed cost-effectively by the private
sector; and (c) based on high labor intensive techniques". Interviews carried out by the ICR team suggest



                                                       - 5 -

that AGECABO is regarded by all stakeholders as an example of efficiency and effectiveness. Indeed, the
performance of AGECABO appears to have been an important element in the decision of the United States
Government to sign an agreement for US$180 million under the Millennium Challenge Compact as it
indicated that Government systems were not solid enough to manage money directly. In particular:

l Public works managed by AGECABO were economically and/or socially useful : As mentioned
    above, infrastructures financed by the project significantly improved access to important services, and
    the Final Evaluation confirms beneficiary satisfaction: 82 percent of beneficiaries interviewed reported
    that the infrastructures reflected the priorities expressed by the communities, and 79 percent found
    them an important contribution in the fight against poverty.

l Public works managed by AGECABO were executed cost-effectively by the private sector :
    Comparing the cost-effectiveness of public works across programs is problematic because of the
    different types of public works executed, so the analysis carried out by the ICR team is limited to
    primary schools and rural roads. In the first case, the average cost of schools built by AGECABO was
    24 percent lower than that of schools built by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport (MIT); as
    for roads, the cost per linear meter when AGECABO managed the works was two-third the average
    cost incurred when the MIT was in charge (see Annex 3 for more details). Technical audits conducted
    in 2002 and 2004, as well as Bank supervision missions and visits conducted by the ICR team, leave
    no doubt as to the good quality of infrastructure built under AGECABO's management, thus excluding
    the possibility that lower costs were achieved by sacrificing quality. Cost-effectiveness was also
    attained by AGECABO as an agency: (a) the agency's operating costs have remained close to the 10
    percent set as the KPI, and financial management, procurement and sub-project monitoring have been
    good throughout project implementation (see PSR/ISR and aide-memoires), and (b) works were
    generally carried out within the agreed deadlines and in any case much faster than when the government
    is directly in charge (e.g., a sports center was built by the municipality of Mosteiros in about four
    years, while AGECABO built a similar one for the same municipality in less than a year).

l Public works were based on labor-intensive techniques: All works were executed using technologies
    that were the most labor-intensive possible for the type of infrastructure and their related technical
    quality norms. Municipal FAIMO programs, which are arguably the public works programs most
    comparable to AGECABO, had an average labor ratio of 20 percent, compared to AGECABO's ratio
    of 34 percent. Thus, it would appear that municipalities wanting to maximize employment creation
    would be better off adopting AGECABO's approach or working through it.

Municipalities, communities and NGOs are now better able to plan, implement and monitor
sub-projects (development objective 2). Capacity building at the local level was planned to complement
the execution of civil works as a way to support the decentralized approach promoted by the project and
also to further sustainability. While initially attention was concentrated on infrastructure sub-projects at
the detriment of the capacity building component, the results by project end are fully satisfactory (see
Annex 1 for more details, as well as section 4.2 below). All 17 municipalities received training in project
planning and management, and training evaluations consistently reveal high levels of satisfaction.
Participants included members of the Municipal Partners Commissions set up by the project. These
commissions, which comprise representatives of municipal governments, decentralized government
services, NGOs and community associations, are the first example in Cape Verde of local development
actors getting together to decide on investments and receive the means to implement their decisions. In line
with the projected KPI, all 17 Commissions are still functional. Their members, interviewed by the ICR
team and by the Final Evaluation team, speak with pride of the results achieved together. In addition, two
Commissions have registered themselves officially as associations to ensure their long-term sustainability,


                                                       - 6 -

and several Commissions have taken on responsibilities going well beyond the project scope, such as
running AIDS prevention programs or setting up micro-finance services. All agreed that if it weren't for
the support received through the Program Coordinating Unit (PCU), their achievements would not have
been possible. Capacity building was also provided to both Municipal Partners Commissions and small
contractors on infrastructure management and maintenance. The good conditions of infrastructures found
by the Final Evaluation and the ICR team suggest that skills were indeed transferred to the local level. On
the other hand, the Final Evaluation provides a somewhat mixed picture with regards to the capacity
building provided to communities: while 84 percent of beneficiaries who expressed an opinion (45 percent
of the total had none) felt positively about the sustainability of the sub-projects, less than 10 percent
considered that the community had been trained sufficiently to be able to manage the infrastructure
autonomously.

There exists a central capacity to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the National Poverty Alleviation
Program (development objective 3). A PCU was established by Government resolution in 1998 to
coordinate the NPAP. The PCU has done a superior job in integrating the three donor projects (IDA,
IFAD, AfDB) that provide funding under parallel financing for the NPAP into a coherent program.
Examples of economies of scale and synergy abound. Many running costs of the PCU are shared by the
three projects (e.g., information and dissemination, monitoring and evaluation). Infrastructure built with
IDA funding is equipped with AfDB funding and also used by IFAD beneficiaries, and the technical
assistance for its efficient use is provided by all the three projects, each focusing on different aspects. A
good database maintained by the PCU has allowed for close monitoring of the NPAP and facilitated Bank
supervision, while regular information events (radio spots, media news reports, various meetings) have
favored transparency and visibility. The project also showed flexibility in agreeing to finance a household
survey (the IDRF), which was carried out by the National Statistics Institute (INE). The IDRF has
provided a wealth of much needed, high quality data that have been instrumental in shaping the country
poverty reduction strategy, through, for example, updating the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and
developing a targeting system; it also allowed for more in-depth analysis of specific poverty-related topics
(see also next section). Because the government has opted for a broader approach to poverty reduction as
reflected in the PRSP, the NPAP has now become a part of the overall strategy, whose central coordination
is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance.

It is difficult to determine the extent to which the project contributed to poverty reduction (overall
development objective). The overall objective of the project was to contribute to reduce poverty among the
population living below the poverty line by allocating resources to sub-projects on the basis of: (a) a
maximum allocation by municipality according to a poverty-based formula; and (b) municipal targeting of
poverty pockets identified during project preparation through detailed poverty assessments conducted at the
municipal level. Between 1988-89 and 2001-02, the share of the population living below the poverty line
went from 49 percent to 37 percent, a reduction of 1 percent per year in line with the key performance
indicator (KPI) for the CAS-related objective (note that at project preparation the poverty headcount had
been estimated at 30 percent, while subsequent calculations with a more sophisticated methodology
revealed that a more correct estimate was 49 percent; in any case, regardless of the point of departure, a
consistent methodological approach leaves no doubt that poverty went down considerably). To gauge the
extent to which the project can be partly credited for this impressive progress the project team considered
the following elements:

l Targeting effectiveness: The table below suggests that targeting by municipality did not take place,
     as there is no clear pattern in allocations by municipality, or in number of projects (e.g., the highest
     allocation per capita went to Maio, which is one of the five least poor municipalities, while the average
     allocation for the four poorest municipalities, which have over half of their population below the


                                                        - 7 -

  poverty line, was less than the national average and less than one third the allocation to Maio). On the
  other hand, there are reasons to believe that targeting did take place within municipalities. While the
  ICR team could not obtain evidence on whether municipalities had consistently concentrated
  subprojects in poverty pockets, the characteristics of the employment offered by the project are most
  likely to have resulted in self-targeting. Average monthly salaries paid to unskilled workers were about
  14,000 CVE (about twice the salaries paid by FAIMO programs), well below the 28,833 CVE poverty
  line for extreme poverty, therefore it can be assumed that only the poor would have been interested in
  working for SSDP-financed sub-projects. The reverse of the coin, of course, is that wages low enough
  to result in self-targeting are generally too low to lift families out of poverty. However, given the
  temporary nature of most employment created and considering that in Cape Verde most households
  have diversified sources of revenues including significant remittances from abroad, the project was
  probably right in adopting an approach that had a strong potential for self-targeting. Overall, the
  employment generated by the project injected approximately US$ 4.7 million in wages for unskilled
  workers into the economy.



            Municipality                  %                 Total            Per capita
                                     Population         subproject           subproject     Number of
                                        under          expenditures         expenditures    subprojects
                                    poverty line       (`000 CVE)             (CVE)
     Paul                                 56                     63,647               7,634        9
     S. Domingos                          55                     64,667               4,885       14
     S. Miguel                            55                     62,598               3,912       11
     S. Cruz                              54                   122,601                3,731       27
     Ribeira Gr.                          49                     98,710               4,608       15
     Porto Novo                           49                     84,476               4,890       22
     Mosteiros                            47                     85,260               8,977        7
     S. Felipe                            45                     66,067               2,367        9
     S. Nicolau                           43                     88,484               6,448        9
     Tarrafal                             43                     51,121               2,868        8
     Brava                                43                     43,465              10,223        8
     S. Catarina                          43                   134,103                2,689       31
     Maio                                 35                   110,132               16,320        6
     S. Vicente                           29                   153,045                2,295       23
     Praia                                22                   198,670                1,896       18
     Boa Vista                            21                     32,258               7,608        5
     Sal                                  20                     25,358               1,712        3
 Source: Project Data, Census Data 2000, Poverty Diagnostic 2004
 (World Bank).

l Improved quality of life for the poor: The SSDP made a significant contribution to improve access to
  social services through the construction of social infrastructure (see table below). Of particular
  importance is the extension of access to water and sanitation services, given Cape Verde's challenges in
  this sector especially in remote areas, and the large coverage of community multi-use centers. These
  centers represent a best practice model for smaller, dispersed populations, as they make optimal use of
  an infrastructure and become a one-stop-center for a variety of services. Services offered in multi-use
  centers include preschool, training rooms, community library, feeding programs for children and


                                                     - 8 -

 elderly, health outreach, community meeting rooms for local associations, and an administrative area
 where local employees provide outreach for official municipal services (thus bringing government
 closer to remote communities and poor peri-urban areas). Municipal governments contract with local
 associations for the management of the services, like training or day care, and recurrent costs are
 shared between the municipality, community associations and user fees for services. It is also worth
 noting SSDP contribution to extending access to preschools, a particular important service in a country
 where 40 percent of households are female-headed and where female-headed households have a higher
 likelihood to be poor (urban households headed by a female are associated with a 6 percent loss in
 income per capita). According to the Carta Social, out of a total installed capacity of 24,817, the
 project contributed 1,122 or a net expansion of 6 percent of preschool capacity in the country. The
 real contribution of the project, however, is likely to be higher because preschool services offered in
 multi-use centers were not included in the estimates of the Carta Social.

    Type of                      Number of              Out of national target           % benefiting
    infrastructure               beneficiaries                population                  from SSDP
    Health infrastructure            23,302            431,989 total population                5
    Education                        16,205            90,543 primary school aged             18
    infrastructure                                     children (6-12)
    Water and sanitation             53,973            431,989 total population               13
    Community and                   123,780            431,989 total population               29
    multi-use centers
    Roads                            77,064            431,989 total population               18
    Sports facilities                 3,958            193,222 youth (7-25)                    2
    Markets                          14,724            431,989 total population                3
    Environment                       3,736            431,989 total population                1
    Total                           316,742
 Source: Project data, Carta Social (INE).

l Employment creation for unskilled workers: According to the original outcome KPI, the project was
  to create 20,500 person/months of unskilled labor. By the end of the project, employment created was
  FAIMO-type workers amounted to only 12,800 person/months. What is the reason for such
  discrepancy and, more importantly, should this difference be considered an indication of project
  failure? As mentioned earlier, the original estimate was overly optimistic, and in the end the average
  labor intensity was 34 percent --lower than the projected 85 percent but higher than the level observed
  in other DCMAs in the region (e.g., Senegal's Agetip averages 25 percent). Also, the goals of the
  project were two-fold --to create good infrastructure that would improve the lives of the poor, and to
  create temporary jobs. Municipalities were free to optimize between these two following locally
  determined investment priorities. They gave priority to expansion of social infrastructure (which has a
  relatively low labor content) more than foreseen at beginning, perhaps due to availability from other
  sources of financing (EU, IDA) for roads (which have a higher labor content). The discrepancy
  between the original KPI estimate and the final estimate should therefore be considered a shortcoming
  in project preparation rather than a project failure.

l Beneficiary assessments: The independent Final Evaluation, which is informed by two beneficiary
  assessments (over 2000 people were interviewed in 2003 and 2005) as well as by interviews with local
  and central government authorities, NGOs and local associations, reports a widespread impression that
  the project contributed to poverty reduction. Of the 1,126 households interviewed in 2005 in relation to



                                                   - 9 -

    151 subprojects, 79 percent considered the subproject as important or very important in the fight
    against poverty. Most useful were schools, health posts, roads, community centers and water; least
    useful were markets and sport fields. The opinion of municipal authorities, local associations and
    NGOs is more cautiously optimistic. Four out of five believe that SSDP contribution to poverty
    reduction was only moderate. In fact, if on the one hand the project improved the quality of life of poor
    communities through key infrastructure, on the other the employment created was only temporary.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Public Works and Employment Creation (moderately satisfactory)

Public works financed by the project built infrastructure that improved the quality of life of over
315,000 people. The final breakdown of infrastructures built and related costs by type of project is
presented below. As mentioned earlier, these infrastructures were found to be consistent with the priorities
identified by communities and 82 percent of beneficiaries considered them important or very important in
the fight against poverty; this compares favorably to the original output indicator (PAD, Annex 1) that
aimed at a 70 percent rate of satisfaction among beneficiaries. As for the number of direct beneficiaries,
the revised KPI set as a target a cumulative total of 318,000, equivalent to almost 80 percent of Cape
Verde's population. Final estimates put the figure at 316,742, equivalent to about 73 percent of the 2000
Census (note that these figures do not necessarily represent the total number of direct beneficiaries, as some
people may benefit from more than a project). While the final total comes slightly short of the original
estimate, benefiting such a large percentage of a country's population is a very respectable achievement,
and the discussion in the previous section indicates that the contribution of the project in expanding access
to basic social services has been significant (the PAD designates the percentage of people with access to
various social services as one of the original output KPI, but no target percentages are specified and in any
case this would be an outcome indicator). Also and according to the data collected by the PCU, 80 percent
of the new facilities were found to be functioning properly at closing.

                              Total number of infrastructures financed under SSDP

                     Type of Infrastructure                            Quantity        Cost (million CVE)
 Health Facilities                                                        21                     62.38
 Education Facilities (including preschool)                               57                    173.37
 Water and Sanitation                                                     26                     36.04
 Roads                                                                    46                    596.68
 Other Community Social Infrastructure (e.g., sports centers,             84                    477.47
 community centers for the handicapped)
 Community Economic Infrastructure (e.g., markets)                         3                     21.86
 Total                                                                   237                  1,367.80
Source: Project data, Conventions between PCU/NPAP and AGECABO. 2000-2005.

Employment creation was much less than originally envisaged, and also less than envisaged in the
Supplemental Credit. As mentioned earlier, the project potential for employment creation was grossly
overestimated at inception, and it was revised twice during project implementation as follow:




                                                    - 10 -

Direct Employment Creation through Public Works: Number of person/months of unskilled labor

            Timeline                             Total                         Ex-FAIMO
           At appraisal                         104,000                           20,500
   Revised at mid-term review                   28,271                            22,930
       Formally revised at                      16,750                            13,800
          Supplemental
        Actual at closing                       15,081                            12,800
        (direct + indirect)                     (31,999)                         (29,698)
Source: Project data, AGECABO. March 2005

At the time of the Supplemental Credit, it was estimated that the objective for the whole project, i.e.,
original plus supplemental, was to create a total of 38,500 person/months of (direct and indirect)
employment, of which 35,000 person/months for ex-FAIMO workers (i.e., unskilled laborers). The project
created nearly 32,000 person/months (equivalent to 83 percent of the revised objective), of which about
29,700 for FAIMO-type workers (85 percent of the objective --note that the project did not collect data on
whether unskilled laborers hired by contractors had actually participated in FAIMO programs before). The
results are slightly better as regards direct employment only (respectively, 90 percent and 93 percent of the
target set in the supplemental credit; see Table 1 in Annex 1 for data by year, as well as Annex 3 for a
more detailed description).

Component 2: Capacity Building and Monitoring & Evaluation (Satisfactory)

This component aimed at strengthening capacity both at the decentralized and the central levels, but
the means to this end were not clearly defined in the PAD. Considering this lack of specificity in
defining this component and the fact that there are no output KPI for this component (see Annex 1 of the
PAD), the final output for the component confirms the ICR team positive impression of the dedication and
competence of the project staff in identifying and implementing a relevant training program. As for
monitoring and evaluation (M&E), the outputs mentioned were monthly and quarterly reporting by the
PCU, yearly beneficiary assessments, and biannual impact evaluations. In reality, only two beneficiary
assessments were carried out (2003 and 2005) and no project-specific impact evaluation was ever
undertaken, even though analyses done for the preparation of the Carta Social provide important insights.

Implementation went well beyond what was initially envisaged and produced highly satisfactory
results. A slow start in the execution of this component was more than compensated in the last three years,
although funding limitations did not allow the project to satisfy the demand generated by the high quality
and pertinence of the training provided. The project also showed flexibility in reallocating part of its
funding to cover the expenses of the IDRF, a decision that proved wise in light of the central role played by
the IDRF in shaping the current poverty reduction strategy and of the extensive use made of the data
collected (see below).

Outputs in terms of capacity building encompassed a large range of development actors and
addressed important needs. They can be summarized as follows (see Annex 1 for more quantitative
information on the capacity building program financed by the project):
l All 17 municipalities have an operating Municipal Partners Commission in accordance with the NPAP
    (see previous section for their composition). In some cases these commissions have taken over new
    responsibilities, such as HIV/AIDS prevention. With the support of an IFAD project also operating



                                                     - 11 -

    under the NPAP, nine Municipal Partners Commissions have evolved from an ad-hoc commission into
    a legally established association (Regional Partners Commission), hence the likelihood of sustainability
    appears high. It is important to note that these mixed commissions have made it possible to set up
    successful collaborations among municipal authorities and NGOs/associations in social service
    delivery. For example, most multipurpose community centers have been built by municipalities and are
    operated by community associations or NGOs, with municipalities contributing to running costs.
l After a needs assessment, all 17 Municipal Partners Commissions received training in participatory
    techniques, project design and management, and infrastructure management and maintenance. All
    training evaluations were extremely positive, both immediately after the training and later on after the
    opportunity of applying the skills newly acquired (Final Evaluation and ICR mission interviews).
l 385 small contractors and infrastructure managers (the latter include community associations, NGOs,
    community workers and private individuals) were trained in infrastructure management and
    maintenance. All training evaluations were extremely positive and the demand generated for this type of
    training remains high.
l Manuals and guides for infrastructure management and maintenance were produced and over 500 of
    them were distributed.
l To facilitate employment creation, training in painting was offered to 212 unskilled laborers in
    collaboration with a paint factory (SITA). Three months after the training, 40 percent of the trainees
    have already found employment, and one has even set up his own painting business thanks to
    micro-credit offered by another project under the NPAP.

Institutional capacity to monitor and evaluate poverty has greatly increased thanks to the project.
The IDRF has received very positive evaluations from AFTPM (including a "best practice" label for the
sensitization campaign to prepare the population) and has served as the basis for the PRSP. INE has now
acquired the skills to competently run and analyze similar surveys in the future. Data from the IDRF have
been widely exploited by INE, which has produced several studies on specific poverty-related topics (e.g.,
health expenditures, fiscal incidence, pensions). In addition, a number of other studies are under way;
among them is the production of a Carta Social containing the location of all social infrastructures, both
public and private, thus complementing the existing basic health and school maps. Poverty monitoring will
be carried out by INE with a two-pronged approach: (a) a Database of Official Data and Statistics,
containing all poverty-related indicators and making them accessible through a unique portal; and (b) a
Database of Means and Projects, containing all information on poverty-related output (see Project
Document of the PRSC, Report No. 30056-CV). In terms of data gathering, a Demographic Health
Survey is about to be launched and INE is planning a CWIQ-type (Core Welfare Indicators Questionnaire)
survey every two years.

The NPAP Program Coordinating Unit (PCU) has been able to build on the strengths and
complementarities of projects financed by four donors: IFAD, AfDB, UNDP, and IDA. The synergy
created among the projects has produced economies of scale (e.g., information campaigns and monitoring
and evaluation have been shared) and has resulted in a more comprehensive and sustainable approach. For
example, IDA finances the infrastructures and IFAD the organizational support for running the services
housed in the infrastructures. A National Commission for Poverty Alleviation (Comisão Nacional da Luta
contra Pobreza, CNLP) was created in 2003 to ensure sustainable government coordination, but its
operationalization is unlikely in the context of the PRSP. In fact, as the government approach to poverty
alleviation has broadened, the NPAP now feeds its experience into the PRSP and overall coordination of
poverty-related efforts is no longer the responsibility of the NPAP, but of the Ministry of Finances.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
One important objective of the NPAP supported by the Project was to develop an economically



                                                     - 12 -

sustainable alternative to the traditional labor-intensive public works system. This system, known as
FAIMO, was set up in the 1980s to counteract the high rural unemployment resulting form periodic
droughts and consists mainly of rural roads and infrastructure. FAIMO represents an important social
safety net for the poor, but it has been criticized for its low efficiency and for generating a welfare
mentality. By creating AGECABO, the SSDP aimed at assisting the Government in developing the
institutional capacity to execute public works that can provide employment for the poor in a cost-effective
manner. The model followed in setting up AGECABO was that of the public works employment agencies
known as AGETIP, successfully pioneered in Senegal in 1989 and replicated throughout West Africa. The
comparative analysis is based on FAIMO programs such as ACDI/VOCA (small agriculture infrastructure
implemented through farmers associations), INERF (larger rural engineering works), municipalities
(labor-intensive road repairs, clean-up activities); or non FAIMO programs such as PROMEF for school
construction and the Road Sector Support Project (RSSP), which used the Ministry of Infrastructure and
Transport (MIT) to centrally manage public works.

Comparison of AGECABO's performance to other labor-intensive public works programs concludes that,
overall, the delegated contract management approach used by AGECABO is cost-effective. It
out-performed (in cost and in time) the municipal FAIMO program, which is the most comparable to it. In
addition, comparative analysis with the other programs indicates that AGECABO was effective in (a)
managing public works that are labor-intensive; (b) creating employment; and (c) managing the overall
program. The table below presents a summary of the comparative analysis (details are found in Annex 3).

Effectiveness and                                     AGECABO's                   Comparable programs' achievements
cost-effectiveness criteria                           Achievement
Labor-intensity of public-works
                                                                                      Equivalent to previous FAIMO
Employment generation (direct+indirect         13,142 person-month (2003)          programs of ACDI-VOCA and INERF
employment)                                                                           respectively 11,000 and 12,000
                                                                                           person-month (2001)
Employment creation to catch-up with      Employment creation fully synchronized Employment creation not synchronized in
seasonal unemployment periods during      with unemployment periods (Nov-June)   the case of ACDI-VOCA's and INERF's
the dry season                                                                               FAIMO programs
Cost-effectiveness of Employment
creation
                                                                                 996,000 CVE: FAIMO program managed
Cost per worker employed                           518,000 CVE (2003)                        by municipalities
Labor share in the construction costs            34% of total expenditure           20% of total expenditure in FAIM0
(including Agency cost)                                                            program managed by municipalities
Cost-effectiveness of Public Works
Cost-effectiveness of school               Average cost of schools managed by    Average cost of schools managed by the
construction                                   AGECABO: 3,110,000 CVE            MIT under PROMEF: 13,000,000 CVE
                                                                                 (AGECABO average cost is 24% lower)
Cost-effectiveness of rural road             Average cost of roads managed by    Average cost of similar roads managed by
construction                              AGECABO: 11,000 CVE per linear meter the MIT in the RSSP: 17,000 CVE per
                                                                                 linear meter (AGECABO average cost is
                                                                                               33% lower)
Cost-effectiveness of Agency
Cost of the Agency as a ratio of the cost      11% in average (2000-2005);           Norm in other AGETIP located in
of the works it managed                    8.6% in 2003 (Agency cost during full          similar countries is 10%
                                            capacity period is below objective)



4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable



                                                          - 13 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project is rated as substantial, because the project has
demonstrably and sustainably built the capacity of local development actors (including public and private
agencies) and central institutions on many fronts: established a programmatic approach to alleviating
poverty; instituted private sector principles in contract management among central and decentralized
governments, contractors, and service providers; strengthened national capacity to select, measure, monitor,
supervise, and evaluate interventions according to their impact on poverty.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
l Loss in Credit Value. By the end of 2001, the PCU had signed four main Conventions (1/99, 2/99,
    1/00 and 1/01) with AGECABO for a total value of 1.3 billion CVE, or US$11 million equivalent at
    time of signing. By 2003, the Government and the Bank estimated a total of almost US$1 million in
    exchange rate-induced losses in the escudo-denominated contracts due to the depreciation of the US
    dollar. The bulk of actual disbursements made on these sub-projects has occurred over 2002 and 2003,
    when the US dollar had lost about 25 percent of its value in relation to the CV escudo. The last
    Convention (01/01) between the PCU and AGECABO financed under the original credit was signed
    before the dollar depreciation and by that time, many of the technical studies were completed and
    bidding had already taken place for a number of contracts. When the dramatic depreciation in credit
    value occurred, the only possible response was to suspend the execution of many of the sub-projects,
    and to reduce the scope of on-going works where possible. This led the Government to formulate a
    request for supplemental financing to cover all or part of the portfolio of sub-projects already identified
    by the municipalities.

l Unanticipated Cost Increases. Coming from the FAIMO tradition of low-pay, force account public
    employment schemes, there was little capacity within municipalities or NGOs to design and execute
    small-scale civil works using private contractors. Under the SSDP, municipalities presented their
    demand based on their original estimates of subproject cost. The PCU then approved a package and
    entered into a contract (Convention) with AGECABO to implement the subprojects, including technical
    designs and bidding. The first Conventions suffered from average cost increases of 60 percent, well
    above the standard 20 percent price contingency included in the Credit Agreement. This rate was
    reduced to 36 percent and 17 percent in Convention 01/00 and 01/01 as technical capacity improved
    thanks to their experience working with AGECABO. However, despite the substantial improvements,
    cost increases in the last Convention under the original credit, equivalent to US$800,000, could only be
    met by suspending execution of part of the Convention given the concomitant loss in credit value. Note
    that this factor was at least in part subject to government control, as the limited planning capacity of
    municipalities should have been known and pointed out to the project preparation team.


5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
l Salary Reduction. The government decision to reduce salary levels and harmonize contract terms
    among Project Coordination Units in July 2003 had a significant impact at the time of contract renewal
    of all NPAP personnel (June 1st, 2004), with the exception of the NPAP coordinator, whose contract
    was due for renewal October 31, 2004. The Government decided that the old salary scale be
    maintained while the revised contract would now require that all contractual staff be responsible for
    paying income taxes; in addition, by Arrêté 31/04 of July 21, 2004, the Ministry of Finances and Plan
    informed the PCU staff that they would be responsible for paying income tax arrears from January
    2003 within a six-month period. According to estimates made at the time, this created a monthly
    salary loss ranging between 38 and 92 percent depending on seniority. Needless to say, the impact on


                                                      - 14 -

    staff morale and performance was highly negative, thus putting at risk the timely completion of project
    implementation. However, the contract of the NPAP coordinator was not renewed. Fortunately, he
    was replaced by the PCU Program Officer for Institutional Development who adequately ensured the
    interim until shortly after project closing.

l Counterpart Funds. While counterpart funds were systematically deposited under the original credit,
    the requirement for the supplemental credit suffered a delay of about eight months from the
    effectiveness date of March 2, 2004 (see section 5.4 for additional details on counterpart funds). This
    caused important payment arrears to suppliers and AGECABO, and the PCU had to move financing of
    some operating costs to other NPAP programs (IFAD, AfDB). However, the Government took the
    decision to cover the accountant's salary during the four-month grace period (April 1 - July 31, 2005)
    granted under the IDA credits to ensure proper follow-up on timely payment of accruals.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
While the PCU has demonstrated its management capacity over time, the tracking and the exploitation of
the information on project investments remained a challenge in terms of sub-projects under implementation.
AGECABO had also difficulties in consolidating and providing reliable data on the status of indicators
related to employment creation. The wealth of information being generated by the contractors on each
sub-project was unfortunately not sufficiently exploited by the PCU and AGECABO. Unless requested
during Bank missions, the information was not systematically recorded and consolidated, and, therefore,
not easily made available as expected.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The original project cost estimate was US$18.1 million, of which US$16.1 from IDA and US$2.0 million
from Government, communities and municipalities. An additional amount of US$4.4 million, including
US$4.0 million from IDA and US$0.4 million from Government, communities and municipalities was
provided under the supplemental credit for the reasons mentioned under sections 5.1 and 5.2 above.
Disbursement levels at closing reached US$21.6 million for IDA and US$1.4 million for Government,
communities and municipalities. Two reallocations of the original credit proceeds were carried out : (a) in
2001 for the financing of the National Household Survey; and (b) in 2003 to complete project activities,
which essentially moved funds from the unallocated category and unused PPF to the subprojects category.

Counterpart funds posed a number of challenges. The main issues are summarized below:

l The government contribution was slightly less than anticipated (US$500,000 over US$600,000), but
    this did not affect the implementation of the activities against which counterpart funds were required,
    except for the 8-month delay in the deposit of the counterpart funds for the supplemental. As
    mentioned earlier, funds for operating costs for the PCU/NPAP were also provided from projects
    financed by the other donors involved (AfDB, IFAD), particularly during the delay in the deposit of the
    counterpart funds associated to the IDA supplemental credit (see section 5.2 above).

l The appraisal team of the original credit indicated that Government and beneficiaries contribution
    would be around 10 percent of the investment cost, with municipalities (a) providing in-kind
    contributions such as land, and (b) contributing to recurrent and operating costs using either
    government transfers to the municipalities (equivalent to 6 percent of the government revenue for the
    previous fiscal year) or by cost recovery and locally generated revenues. However, municipal
    contributions were not properly monitored either by AGECABO or by the PCU, and information
    provided at project closing by the NPAP was based on the estimated value of land provided by
    municipalities for sub-projects. The land value for social infrastructure was estimated on a range going



                                                    - 15 -

    from 1200 CVE/m2 for Praia to 400 CVE/m2 for Porto Novo; estimates for roads were based on an
    average rate of return of 1400 CVE/m2 (see Table 1, Annex 2).

l Evidence shows that most municipalities provided land (sometimes bought from private owners) or
    technical studies as their contribution to the project, for a value well below the anticipated 10 percent.
    In light of this situation, the Government requested to increase the percentage of expenditure to be
    financed by IDA for Category 1 (sub-projects) from 90 to 100 percent of amount disbursed. The
    request was approved less than two years after effectiveness (July 2001), in part because taking into
    account these in-kind contributions in the withdrawal applications proved very difficult. In the end, of
    the US$1.75 million expected (of which US$1.4 million under the original credit), it appears that only
    US$0.9 million came from the municipalities.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Project sustainability is rated as likely.

l Government commitment to poverty reduction continues to be high and the PRSP produced in
    2004 clearly identifies the NPAP as one of the building blocks, as well as the forbearer, of the
    government strategy. The specific objectives of the project are also in line with present priorities
    (employment creation, restructuring of the FAIMO system, provision of infrastructure,
    decentralization), suggesting that the government will continue to sustain them. While with a new
    party in power (elections took place in 2003) support to the project appeared less strong (see
    aide-memoire of October 2004), the last months of project implementation have been smooth. The
    PRSC will make it easier for the government to continue pursuing the NPAP objectives within the
    context of budgetary support, building on the SSDP experience.

l The NPAP PCU set up by the project is likely to continue operating at least in the short to
    medium term. Sustainability of the PCU would be assured if it were integrated into the ministry under
    whose oversight it operates, the Ministry of Labor and Solidarity. However, the Minister has indicated
    that he prefers to keep the PCU in its present semi-autonomous status, while two of his advisors closely
    liaise with the PCU to ensure consistency and coordination with other ministerial programs. As the first
    PRSP was only approved in February 2005, institutional responsibilities for its implementation are still
    in the process of being established, and the Minister's hesitation is understandable. In the meantime, the
    PCU will continue coordinating the other two projects in its portfolio, one financed by AfDB ($16
    million) closing in 2007 and the other by IFAD ($18 million) closing in 2008.

l Capacity to monitor poverty has been improved, and will be used to track implementation of the
    PRSP. The training and experience provided to INE by the project have equipped it with state of the
    art skills, and budgetary support through the PRSC will provide the means needed to carry out its
    responsibilities. See section 4 on Component 2.

l The continued operation of the delegated contract management agency established by the project
    appears certain. A new convention was signed in October 2004 with AfDB for 139 million CVE
    (US$1.74 million equivalent), and another one for 100 million CVE (US$1.3 million equivalent) will be
    signed for 2005. In addition, the Ministry of Education will also enter into a convention (90 million
    CVE or $1.125 million equivalent) with AGECABO to manage its 2005 program. In light of the
    construction needs identified in the education and health sectors, implementation of the PRSC in 2006
    and 2007 would certainly have to rely on AGECABO involvement, as there are simply no other



                                                     - 16 -

  institutions able to deliver with its speed and quality. Discussions surrounding the Millennium
  Challenge Account (MCA) financed by the United States may lead to the decision to use AGECABO's
  services in managing contracts as is the case for the Ministry of Education and the AfDB programs.
  Finally, the Country Procurement Assessment Report (CPAR) and action plan of June 30, 2004,
  supports the adoption of a law to allow for delegated contract management.

l The experience of AGECABO has definitely, and probably irreversibly, changed for the better
  the way in which municipal actors approach public works, and especially the way in which they
  provide assistance through labor-intensive public works. Municipal authorities have not always
  been keen on using AGECABO's services because this deprives them of control over the distribution of
  contracts and employment, and also because some municipality representatives have indicated that their
  own personnel could do the job just as well (ICR team interviews and final evaluation workshop,
  March 2005). But AGECABO's demonstration effect has been powerful and the impact will be long
  lasting (in the words of the Minister of Economy, AGECABO has been a "quiet revolution").
  Interviews with municipal authorities make it clear that the main principles followed by AGECABO
  have been internalized with contractual arrangements clearly spelling out responsibilities and deadlines,
  attention to productivity, reliance on small private contractors, etc. Some municipalities have started
  concluding contracts with small local entrepreneurs following these principles, avoiding AGECABO
  but building on its experience. Most importantly, all stakeholders are now convinced that productivity
  matters also in the case of labor-intensive public works offered as a safety net. In this sense, the old
  FAIMO system is probably dead, and the final blow was dealt by the project.

l The project contributed to beneficiary empowerment and social capital development, both of
  which tend to have long-lasting benefits. The SSDP offered local development actors their first
  opportunity to analyze their needs and select infrastructures that helped addressing them. Interviews
  with both Municipal Partners Commissions and beneficiaries confirmed their overall satisfaction with
  such an approach, even though some civil society organizations complained that they were not
  sufficiently involved (see Final Evaluation). Voluntary contributions in the form of planning meetings
  and supervision have been frequent, and the assistance provided by the IFAD-financed project in
  building social capital at the community level has further strengthened social accountability and
  commitment around the sub-projects. The beneficiary assessment carried out in 2003 indicates that
  beneficiaries felt empowered by this approach. Empowerment was measured by: (a) a perception of
  improved decision-making mechanisms and legitimate representation in the community; and (b) a
  perception of improved power distribution within and between families, groups, communities and
  institutions. Results varied considerably among islands. Also, younger and better educated
  respondents were more positive than the average. and social capital was strengthened (the majority of
  respondents reported improved interpersonal relations and improved relations between communities).

l Operation and maintenance have been satisfactory. While at the beginning of the project, municipal
  authorities waited until construction was completed to start making arrangements for its use, perhaps
  wary of previous experiences with much delayed executions, at project closing over 80 percent of
  infrastructures were found to be operational within 4 to 6 months of works completion, which is the
  minimum timeframe given to consider whether the infrastructure has become functional after
  completion. Facilities appear to be well maintained, well run and well attended. Arrangements for
  covering recurrent costs reflect flexibility and ingenuity on the part of municipal authorities in an effort
  to contain their contribution. For example, the municipality of San Felipe started assuming almost all
  recurrent costs for a kindergarten, asking parents for only a symbolic contribution; it has now made an
  arrangement with the Capucin Fathers to take over the management of the kindergarten, including all
  recurrent costs, knowing that parents will not mind increasing their contribution to a facility run by a


                                                    - 17 -

    religious order with a reputation for good pedagogy, while they would expect the municipality to
    provide the services for free.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
A summary of the understandings between the Bank and the Government for the operationalization of the
Project outcomes for the coming years is presented below:

l The PCU/NPAP will continue to have a key role in coordinating, monitoring and evaluating the NPAP,
    which continues to receive financial support from other donors (AfDB and IFAD);

l Government has opted for a broader approach to poverty reduction as reflected in the PRSP. As such
    the NPAP has now become a part of the overall strategy whose central coordination is the
    responsibility of the Ministry of Finances;

l Two technical advisors from the Ministry of Labor and Solidarity liaise with the PCU on monitoring
    the poverty alleviation agenda under the PRSP and PRSCs;

l The PRSC (US$15.0 million credit), approved in February 2005, builds on the project experience,
    which focused on involving municipalities in decision making through a participatory process while
    strengthening their capacity to manage and supervise contracts ;

l The INE, which has received substantial support from the project, has now the capacity to take the lead
    on poverty monitoring and evaluation responsibilities in the context of the PRSP.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance during the design phase was moderately unsatisfactory. As explained in Section
3.5, several shortcomings were identified by the ICR team on the project design and preparation. Those
include the gross overestimation of the original KPIs for employment, which were reviewed twice during
project implementation (informally during the mid-term review, and formally at the time of the
supplemental), the lack of an adequate monitoring and evaluation system, the failure to take into account
the weak capacity of municipalities to estimate sub-projects cost, and the poor quality of the economic
analysis presented in the project document. However, the Bank's recommendation on simplifying the
project scope early on through (a) the cancellation of: the micro-credit component (at project concept
document, PCD) in view of other donors involvement; and (b) the integration of the community activities
window (social funds) with the municipalities sub-projects into one single category "subproject" (at
negotiations), was sound. It demonstrated an ability to adjust its strategy to the government and other
stakeholders vision and involvement in the sector. The Bank highlighted its legitimate concerns over the
Government's degree of ownership with the establishment of the AGETIP approach and the need for
reforming FAIMO (at PCD stage). Also of concern for the Bank, was other donors' potential resentment in
having the Bank taking a lead role on supporting the NPAP. Hence, the Bank ensured continued dialogue
with the various partners and, whenever possible, would invite other donors to participate in key missions.
Furthermore, the task team leader, located in Dakar, carried out several formal and informal missions to
Cape Verde to follow closely progress. As a result, the project processing schedule was essentially kept on
track (PAD, Annex 7). Recommendations emanating from the various reviews were adequately addressed
by the team, which demonstrated flexibility on responding to Government's reluctance to solely use
AGECABO as the DCMA for the public works and training programs.




                                                    - 18 -

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's performance is rated moderately satisfactory. On the negative side, the shortcomings as
identified by the ICR team could have been addressed by the supervision team during the early stages of
project implementation. Difficulties encountered in capturing reliable information on the KPIs, not
formally revising the said KPIs, not establishing a simple M&E system, and not providing municipalities
with the necessary tools to better estimate sub-project costs (i.e., training, standard price lists, etc.)
contribute to the decision by the ICR team to assign the rating. On the positive side, the quality of the
Project Status Reports (PSR) and aide-memoires was very good, as it focused on results and outcomes, the
early detection of critical bottlenecks to implementation, the quality of advice provided, the effort made by
the TTLs and the team to have their recommendations implemented, and the positive feedback the ICR
team received from the client on the quality of the support they received.

The ICR team reviewed all PSR and one Implementation Status for Results (ISR) and related
aide-memories, where applicable, and found in all of them a good level of detail, a clear identification of the
problems in project implementation, a clear and strategic approach to address such problems, and
substantive sector and country management involvement. The Bank supervision also proved to be flexible
in deciding for alternative solutions, and to respond to emerging client needs (i.e., supplemental financing).
The Bank's role was essential in reaching an agreement on specific operating principles, particularly
important in a programmatic environment such as the NPAP. This created synergy among the various key
donors to the NPAP. For instance, multipurpose community centers financed under the project were also
used by groups supported under the IFAD's financing. Infrastructures would also be equipped by the
AfDB's funding. Issues of compliance with legal covenants were systematically assessed by the
supervision team.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
It should also be pointed out that task team leadership was assigned to staff who had already been involved
as core team member for the operation. Hence, assuring overlapped in task management allowed to
minimize disruption. Overall Bank performance was moderately satisfactory for the reasons outlined
above.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory. The Government was highly engaged in
pursuing its strategy through the implementation of the NPAP. It did not shy away from expressing its
concerns on the AGETIP approach suggested by the Bank, which was driven, in part by political pressure
of key stakeholders and by the lack of experience in using this approach in the country. The Government
and the Bank did, however, reach a compromise on adapting the approach to allow for other national
entities to participate in a competitive process aimed at selecting DCMAs in accordance with the Bank's
guidelines on procurement. A better assessment of municipality's technical capacity to estimate the cost of
sub-projects (by types) as part of project preparation could have helped minimize cost under-estimation
found in the first conventions. This accompanied with appropriate training and the provision of a standard
list of unit cost could have prevented the cost increases ranging from 60 to 36 and 17 percent (see section
5.1 above).

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's performance during implementation was satisfactory despite problems during the last
year of the project (May 2004), which were satisfactorily resolved by December 2004 (see section 5.2 on
salary reduction). The Ministry of Labor and Solidarity could have played a more prominent role in
managing the NPAP, particularly in view of the ministry's increased responsibility with regard to the



                                                     - 19 -

PRSP/PRSC agenda. The Ministry did however, assign two technical advisors to closely follow the
implementation of the NPAP and liaise with its PCU.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The two agencies, PCU and AGECABO, entrusted with implementation, carried out in a satisfactory
manner their respective mandate as the original and supplemental credits were essentially disbursed and or
committed by the closing date of March 31, 2005 with less than SDR 50,000 remaining at the end of the
four-month grace period. The training program more than achieved its target thanks to the dedication and
commitment of the PCU institutional development program officer. The professionnally-led team focus its
energy on the program aspects of project implementation instead of the administrative details. However,
the ICR team felt that the wealth of data collected by AGECABO could have been better exploited rather
than being limited to responding to the Bank's mission demands in its raw form.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Even if the main output of a project is infrastructure, "softer" aspects such as social capital
    development and capacity building should receive careful attention, especially with a
    decentralized approach. The SSDP included a capacity building component, but the component was
    only vaguely defined. Thanks to the dedication and competence of project staff, the SSDP was able to
    make up for this shortcoming. A sensible capacity building program was put together and, more
    importantly, the project benefited from the design of the two other projects financed by AfDB and
    IFAD in the NPAP, both of which included attention to "softer" issues. But both the beneficiary
    assessments and the Final Evaluation pointed out that failure to address "social mobilization" was a
    weakness in the project.

l KPIs should be carefully determined at project start and limited to those most relevant to the
    operation. Difficulties with the KPIs relative to employment creation underline the importance of
    chosing KPI carefully, making explicit the assumptions behind the choice of particular values. Should
    the KPI reveal inadequate, they should be changed formally, rather than simply discussed in
    aide-memoires, as even when there is an understanding between bank and Borrower on the need to use
    different KPIs, failure to make formal changes will inevitably reflect poorly in ICR. Also, there were
    13 KPIs under the original credit (see Annex 1 of the PAD), and their positioning in the logframe did
    not always seem appropriate, suggesting that the logframe had been developed as an afterthought once
    the KPI had already been decided (e.g., why would overall employment creation be an output indicator,
    while employment creation for unskilled laborers was an outcome indicator?).

l Monitoring and evaluation tools should be simple and user friendly.          The wealth of data collected
    by AGECABO from the contractors for each subproject was not systematically recorded and
    consolidated, thus becoming very difficult to exploit. The system in place was based on series of
    spreadsheets linked to each other, which required lengthy verification for potential errors in data entry.
    This underscores the importance of thinking about a thorough M&E system during preparation,
    starting from an assessment of the information needs of different stakeholders (central government,
    municipalities, PIU, Bank) and ending with the production of reports.

l Use of National Competitive Bidding Procurement Method instead of Small Works Procurement
    Method. With a country made of over ten islands, it is difficult to envisage requirements for planned



                                                    - 20 -

    bulk procurement. There should have been flexibility in setting the aggregate threshold for small works.
    Municipalities felt that by awarding contracts to more qualified firms of the Islands of Santiago and
    São Vicente, it prevented local contractors to gain access to the economy and strengthen their capacity
    while creating local employment. As such, a review by AGECABO of local capacities could have
    provided the necessary justification to allow for an increase in the threshold level per contract for Small
    Works Procurement Method.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower prepared an end-of-project report (Annex 8), in which the Borrower's own assessment of
project performance and constraints is presented. The Borrower has also confirmed the content of the final
draft Implementation Completion Report by its letter of September 27, 2005.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable, but in view of the importance of their contribution to the overall NPAP, this report was
shared with representatives of IFAD, UNDP, and AfDB (partners under parallel financing).

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                          1
                 Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Total number of person/month                     16,750                                              15,081
employment created (direct only)
2. Total number of person/month of                  13,800                                              12,800
ex-FAIMO workers employed (direct only)
3. Number of operating Municipal Partners           17                                                  17
Commissions




Output Indicators:
                                                                                          1
                 Indicator/Matrix                                Projected in last PSR                              Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Number of direct beneficiaries of                318,000 (cumulative)                                316,742
completed sub-projects.
2. % of new facilities fully functioning.           90%                                                 80%
3. % allocated to AGECABO for operating             9%                                                  11%
costs.
4. Number of members of local facility              100                                                 568
management committees trained in
operations and maintenance

1End of project
Project Key Performance Indicators were formally revised through the supplemental process approved by the Board on December 16, 2003.
The table below presents the result of the weighted rating of the performance indicators according to the rating methodology found in
the OPCS/OED Joint Guidelines for Use in ICRs and in OED Assessments (January 2005).

                                                           Weighted Rating of Performance Indicators*

                                     Original Target        Revised Target          Indicators at       Rating against     Rating against
                                         Indicators            Indicators              Project         Original Target        Revised      Weighted
       Performance Indicators           (May 1999)             (Oct. 2003)           Completion         and Weighted        Target and     Average
                                                                                    (March 2005)             Value           Weighted
                                                                                                                               Value
       Outcome Indicators
       1. Total number of                                                                                   HU=1               MS=4
       direct person/month                104,000                  16,750             15,081                 (.77)              (.92)      1.69
       employment created
       2. Total number of                                                                                    U=2               MS=4
       person/month of                    20,500                  13,800               12,800               (1.54)              (.92)      2.46
       ex-FAIMO workers
       employed
       3. Number of operating                                                                                 S=5               S=5
       Municipal Partners                    17                     17                    17                 (3.85)            (1.15)      5.00
       Commissions
       Output Indicators
       4. Number of direct                                                                                   HS=6              MS=4
       beneficiaries of                    225,000               318,000              316,742                (4.62)             (.92)      5.54
       completed sub-projects
     5. Percentage of new                                                                                     S=5              MS=4
     facilities fully functioning          80%                     90%                   80%                 (3.85)             (.92)      4.77
       6. Percentage allocated             <10%                    9%                    11%                  S=5              MS=4        4.77
       to AGECABO for                                                                                        (3.85)             (.92)
       operating costs
     Overall Project                                                                                                                       4.04
     Weighted Rating:
     Moderately Satisfactory
           *Weight assigned according to disbursed credit amounts at revision: original targets 77%, revised targets 23%.
           Ratings as follows: Highly Satisfactory (HS)=6, Satisfactory (S)=5, Moderately Satisfactory (MS)=4, Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)=3,




                                                                        - 22 -

            Unsatisfactory (U)=2, Highly Unsatisfactory (HU)=1.



                                                Table 1: Essential data on AGECABO performance during 2000-2005
                                                                                                                                                Total
                                                                                                                                              from 2000
                                                                 2,000        2001         2002         2003          2004         2005        to 2005

                                                                                                                       (a)        (a) (c)        (d)

 1 AGECABO total expenditures(all contracts + Agency's cost)    69,548,304   146,966,990  455,899,992  507,265,122  282,900,252  67,743,240  1,530,323,900



 2 Total Contracts managed by AGECABO                  (b) ECV  69,548,304  146,966,990  455,899,992   507,265,122  282,900,252  67,743,240  1,530,323,900

 3 Total Contracts for Works managed by AGECABO        (b) ECV  60,765,570  132,890,424  423,383,625   469,561,432  260,578,805  62,398,151  1,409,578,007

 4 Total Contracts for Site Supervision                    ECV   8,782,734   14,076,566   32,516,367    37,703,690   22,321,447   5,345,089   120,745,893

 5     Ratio cost of supervision / cost of works           %          14%           11%           8%            8%           9%          9%            9%



 7 Total labor cost (direct+indirect employment)       (b) ECV 21,267,950    55,171,308  152,373,489   172,784,901   96,307,504  23,061,776    520,966,929

 8     Ratio total labor costs / construction costs        %          35%           42%          36%           37%          37%         37%           37%

 9     Ratio labor costs / Total AGECABO costs             %          31%           38%          33%           34%          34%         34%           34%

10     Labor cost of direct employment                 (b) ECV 14,480,050    33,264,310  103,996,273    92,377,706   58,542,245  14,018,515    316,679,099

11     Labor cost of indirect employment               (b) ECV  6,787,900    21,906,998   48,377,216    80,407,195   37,765,259   9,043,262    204,287,830

                                                                                                                              -           -

12 Cost of low-skilled labor (ex-FAIMO)                (b) ECV  15,191,393   48,805,508  140,497,276   156,367,974   86,538,687  20,722,537    468,123,375



13 Number of contracts                                 (d)  U            8           56           66            26           37          44            237

14 Average cost per contract                               ECV   7,595,696     2,373,043    6,414,903   18,060,055    7,042,670   1,418,140      5,947,587

15                                                         US$      94,946        29,663       80,186      225,751       88,033      17,727         74,345

16 Number of pers-months per contract                      p-m         175            57          145          505           85           36           135



17 Total employement (direct + indirect)               (b) p-m       1,400        3,182        9,577        13,142        3,130       1,568         31,999

18  - direct employment                                (b) p-m         990        1,699        5,831         4,347        1,475         739         15,081

19  - indirect employment                              (b) p-m         410        1,483        3,746         8,794        1,655         829         16,917

20 Total low skilled labor (direct+indirect) ex-FAIMO  (b) p-m       1,190        2,963        8,670        12,543        2,875       1,457         29,698

21  - direct employment                                (b) p-m         780        1,480        4,924         3,749        1,239         628         12,800

22  - indirect employment                              (b) p-m         410         1,483        3,746        8,794        1,636         829         16,898

23 % low-skilled labor / total employment                  %          85%           93%          91%           95%



24 Average daily wages for workers (all categories)       ECV          608           694          636          526        1,231          588           651

25                                                         US$         7.6           8.7          8.0           6.6         15.4         7.4           8.1

26 Average wages for ex-FAIMO workers                      ECV         511           659          648          499        1,204          569           631

27                                                         US$         6.4           8.2          8.1           6.2         15.1         7.1           7.9



28 Total employement (direct+indirect)                     p-y         117           265          798        1,095          261          131         2,667

29 Cost of generating one job during one year              ECV     596,128       554,244      571,244      463,185    1,084,602     518,522        573,894



30 Cost of the Agency                                                        40,360,638   50,386,000    43,843,539   33,181,866                167,772,043

31 Ratio Agency cost / total cost of contracts                                    27.5%        11.1%          8.6%        11.7%                     11.0%



Source: AGECABO, May 2005




                                                                          - 23 -

                                                                     Table 2: Capacity Building Program

           Content                     Type of            No. of        Geographic        Level of satisfaction         Impact          Comments
                                    beneficiaries     beneficiaries      coverage
Presentation and rules of the   Municipal            75            National                                    All municipalities have SSDP hired consultant to
game for SSDP/NPAP              authorities, NGOs,                                                             participated in SSDP     help municipalities
                                Local Associations,                                                                                     identifying sub-projects
                                Technicians from
                                Municipalities
Presentation and rules of the   NGOs, Local          88            National               High                 Knowledge of             This training helped
game for SSDP/NPAP and          Associations,                                                                  procedures and rules for expedite the process ­ from
Project Management              Technicians from                                                               submitting projects for  selection to financing of
                                Municipalities                                                                 financing under          activities
                                                                                                               SSDP/NPAP
Procedures, administrative,     Small local          261           National               Very satisfied       Improved their capacity
financial and accounting        entrepreneurs                                                                  to work, present
management                                                                                                     documents according to
                                                                                                               procedures and rules, and
                                                                                                               better management of
                                                                                                               own business
Use of local building materials Contractors'         81            Porto Novo, Santa      High                 Trained workers could    Provided by Consultant
                                workers                            Cruz e Mosteiros                            apply knowledge
                                                                                                               acquired both in SSDP
                                                                                                               works as well as other
                                                                                                               projects under the NPAP
Management and maintenance Associations,             385 (201 men, 17 municipalities in   High satisfaction,                            Provided by the NGO
of infrastructure               NGOs, Personnel of 184 women)      18 sessions            demands exceeded                              MORABI (who also
                                Municipalities in                  (Municipality of Praia training capacity                             produced the manual).
                                charge of                          had 2 sessions due to                                                Responded to identified
                                Infrastructure                     high demand)                                                         need
                                maintenance,
                                Infrastructure
                                managers.
Painting and micro-business     Youth searching for 212            8 Municipalities in 8 Very satisfied        Within 3 months about    Training delivered and
skills to make people more      first employment                   sessions                                    40% found employment cofinanced by main paint
employable                                                                                                     and 1 set-up a           manufacturer (SITA);
                                                                                                               micro-enterprise with    synergy with IFAD project
                                                                                                               micro-credit             (hired trainees) and AfDB
                                                                                                                                        (micro-credit program).
                                                                                                                                        Used market niche to
                                                                                                                                        complement technical
                                                                                                                                        training provided by IFAD
Participative techniques,       Municipal            183 (100 men  17 Municipalities in   Very Satisfied       Dynamisation of the
Project Management and          Committee of         and 83 women) 6 sessions                                  Municipal Committee of
Infrastructure Maintenance      Partners, NGOs,                                                                Partners; its operation
                                Local Associations                                                             goes beyond the SSDP
                                                                                                               projects
Capacity Building on analysis Technicians of the     37            5 training sessions    High                 Better knowledge of
of poverty , data from IDRF,    National Institute of              with different                              poverty data and its
use of SPSS software,           Statistics, Personnel              duration                                    analysis.
econometrics and modeling,      of the PCU,
simulation of poverty data, etc Directorate General
                                of Planning,
                                Ministry of Justice,
                                MORABI, Central
                                Bank.




                                                                                   - 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal    Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                          Estimate      Estimate        Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million   US$ million
1. Public Works and Employment Creation                     19.42          20.87              107
2. Social Sector Capacity Building                           1.81            2.11             117

Total Baseline Cost                                         21.23          22.98
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.90
 Price Contingencies                                         0.40
                         Total Project Costs                22.53          22.98
                  Total Financing Required                  22.53          22.98


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2       N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.41            15.11         1.48         0.35         17.35
                                  (0.41)          (13.91)      (1.35)         (0.00)      (15.67)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         0.02         0.00          0.02
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.01)         (0.00)       (0.01)
3. Services                        0.00             0.00         2.94         0.00          2.94
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (2.89)         (0.00)       (2.89)
4. Training                        0.00             0.00         0.78         0.00          0.78
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.70)         (0.00)       (0.70)
5. Operating Costs                 0.00             0.00         0.26         0.30          0.56
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.06)         (0.00)       (0.06)
6. PPF Refinancing                 0.00             0.57         0.31         0.00          0.88
                                  (0.00)           (0.56)      (0.20)         (0.00)       (0.76)
   Total                           0.41            15.68         5.79         0.65         22.53
                                  (0.41)          (14.47)      (5.21)         (0.00)      (20.09)




                                                - 25 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                         1
                                                                         Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category                            ICB                   NCB                         2           N.B.F.             Total Cost
                                                                                                   Other
   1. Works                                             0.00                  17.37                  0.00               0.00                 17.37
                                                       (0.00)                (16.49)               (0.00)              (0.00)               (16.49)
   2. Goods                                             0.00                   0.00                  0.21               0.00                  0.21
                                                       (0.00)                 (0.00)               (0.19)              (0.00)               (0.19)
   3. Services                                          0.00                   0.00                  4.08               0.00                  4.08
                                                       (0.00)                 (0.00)               (3.67)              (0.00)               (3.67)
   4. Training                                          0.00                   0.00                  0.54               0.00                  0.54
                                                       (0.00)                 (0.00)               (0.49)              (0.00)               (0.49)
   5. Operating Costs                                   0.00                   0.00                  0.36               0.00                  0.36
                                                       (0.00)                 (0.00)               (0.32)              (0.00)               (0.32)
   6. PPF Refinancing                                   0.00                   0.00                  0.42               0.00                  0.42
                                                       (0.00)                 (0.00)               (0.42)              (0.00)               (0.42)
        Total                                           0.00                  17.37                  5.61               0.00                 22.98
                                                       (0.00)                (16.49)               (5.09)              (0.00)               (21.58)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                                             Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                            Appraisal Estimate                            Actual/Latest Estimate
                                       IDA               Govt.          CoF.            Bank            Govt.        CoF.       IDA         Govt.  CoF.
1. Public Works and                   18.60               2.00                          19.67           1.20                  105.8         60.0
Employment Creation
2. Social Sector Capacity              1.50               0.43                           1.91           0.20                  127.3         46.5
Building


   Govt. = Government, municipalities and community contribution.
   CoF. = Cofinancing is not applicable for this project. Funding from other donors to the Government's NPAP (AfDB, IFAD, UNDP, etc.) are under
   parallel financing.




                                                                          - 26 -

                                                     Table 1: Municipalities Contribution


                                                                                   Municipalities contribution per sub-project based on Land
                   Municipalities                                                                   Estimated Value (CVE)

                                                                                         m2                               Total cost/sub-
                    Sub-projects                              Value                                     Cost/m2           project

                        PRAIA                                    198,669,896                                                         5,863,020

Const.Centro Social dos Deficientes Visuais e Mot.                32,280,337                      380              1200                456,000

Const. Centro Social Multi-uso-Achada Grande                      14,529,558                      240              1200                288,000

Const. 1espaço infantil de lazer-Alto Safende                      4,912,862                      170              1200                204,000

Const. 1 centro multi-uso-João Varela                             13,080,143                      220              1200                264,000

Const. 1 centro multi-uso-Achada S.Felipe                         17,939,455                      220              1200                264,000

Const. 1 pequeno mercado- Achada Grande Freb«nte                   9,354,476                      300              1200                360,000

Const. 1 centro social Armindo Lála- Vila Nova                     5,256,825                      120              1200                144,000

Correcção Torren e Dre - Várzea                                   22,888,000                                                                 0

Corr Torrencial e Pr Encostas-Achad B. Tcheu                      20,484,867                                                                 0

Extensão da Rede Viaria -Achada Mato                              16,321,000                   11657                140              1,631,980

Const 1 Passadeira Sub - S.Pedro Lat                               8,816,171                    1763                140                246,820

Const 1 Jardim infantil- SAF                                       9,629,958                      170              1200                204,000

Connstrução 2 salas de aula                                        6,132,407                       80              1200                 96,000

Extensão da rede viária- Casa Lata                                17,043,839                   12173                140              1,704,220

                   S. DOMINGOS                                    64,667,045                                                         3,909,260

Calcetamento da Via Portal/Vale d'Acusta                          15,435,323                   11025                140              1,543,500

Calcetamento da Via Rui Vaz/Pedra Galinha                          8,404,830                    6002                140                840,280

Const. 6 chafarizes                                                6,284,440                      120               500                 60,000

Const. 1 jardim infantil - Chaminé                                 5,156,534                      170               500                 85,000

Const. de 1 Centro Comu - Moia Moia                                5,943,000                      160               500                 80,000

Const. de 1 Centro Com- Capela                                     3,972,400                      120               500                 60,000

Const. 1 Centro Comu- Ach Lama                                     2,527,518                      100               500                 50,000

Const 1 Centro Comuni- Rª Chiqu                                    5,838,000                      160               500                 80,000

Estrada Portal a Vale d' Acusta 2ª Fase                           11,105,000                    7932                140              1,110,480

                   SANTA CRUZ                                    122,600,649                                                         8,286,020

Const. 1 Centro Comunit-Ach.Fazenda                                7,130,567                      160               600                 96,000

Const. 1Centro Comunit-Boaventura                                  3,879,784                      120               600                 72,000

Const. 1 Centro Comunit-Funcos                                     5,673,131                      160               600                 96,000

Recuperação da Ponte Cutelinho e Arruamento                        3,403,485                    2430                140                340,200

Repar. Centro saúde e USB- João Teves e Renque Pu.                 5,054,535                      170               600                102,000

Const.1 jardim infantil e vedação escola EBI-Cancelo               2,099,261                      170               600                102,000

Const.2 salas de aula - Ponta Achada Igreja                        3,152,355                       80               600                 48,000

Conc Const 1 Placa Desport -Órgãos Peq                             5,765,537                    1100                600                660,000

Conc Const 1 Placa Despor-Merc órgãos                              4,297,616                    1100                600                660,000

Const 1 Centro Comunitário- Cancelo                                9,173,067                      140               600                 84,000

Const 1 Comple Sanitario-Varzea IG                                 2,763,482                       60               600                 36,000

Const 1 Fontená c/ Lavandaria-Mato Ra                              1,008,000                       60               600                 36,000

Const 1 Fontená c/ Lavand-João Gôtô                                1,008,446                       60               600                 36,000

Const 1 Fontená c/ Lavand-Serelho                                    765,000                       60               600                 36,000

Extençãob Rede Viária - Cutelinho                                  6,987,282                    4990                140                698,600

Extençãob Rede Viária-Ponta Belém                                  7,551,313                    5392                140                754,880

Extençãob Rede Viária - Cutelinho Super                           14,518,542                   10370                140              1,451,800




                                                             - 27 -

 Construction 5 complexos sanitários                            12,710,638       300    600        180,000
 Conclusão da Const de 1 placa Desp - Ponta Ahada                4,291,329      1100    600        660,000
Extensão da Rede Viária - Cutelinho Superior                      6,987,281     4990    140        698,600
Extensão da Rede Viária -Cancelo                                 14,380,000    10271    140      1,437,940
                  SANTA CATARINA                              134,103,035                        6,562,200
 Const. de CdB e Cist. em Esc ach.leitão, EP, RI                 3,615,079       116    600         69,600
Const. de CdB e Cist. em Esc ach.Tossa, Fundura                   2,881,661      116    600         69,600
Const. de CdB e Cist. em Esc João B, Librão e Telhal              6,705,271      116    600         69,600
Const. de CdB e Cist. em Esc Ach Galego, EP Reda, PR              5,584,403      116    600         69,600
Const. 2 escolas em Mato Sanches/Cruz Grande                     15,766,218      280    600        168,000
Const. 2 centros comunitarios entre Picos Reda/Librão            21,683,601      300    600        180,000
Construção de 1 Viaduto - Faveta                                  7,826,520      521    600        312,600
Const 1 Centro Comunit-Boaentra                                   6,278,915      160    600         96,000
 Constr de 1 Centro Comun - Furna                                7,585,588       160    600         96,000
 Calcetam 2 Arrua Ach Riba-Cumbem                               10,979,737      7842    600      4,705,200
Const 2 Salas Aula Chã Lag- Leitãoz                               7,828,000       80    600         48,000
Construção de 1 USB -Pau Verde                                    5,312,000      120    600         72,000
Construção de 1 USB -Palha Carga                                  4,511,942       80    600         48,000
Const de 1 Sanitário Público-Acha Igreja                          3,429,864       60    600         36,000
Conclusão de 1 Casa de Juventude- Ribeirão Manuel                 2,127,000      120    600         72,000
 Conclusão de 1 Casa de Juventu- Entre Picos de Reda             3,114,000       120    600         72,000
 Construção Jardim Infantil - Cabeça Carreira                    4,331,000       170    600        102,000
Construção Jardim Infantil - Pingo Chuva                          4,600,000      170    600        102,000
Construção Jardim Infantil - Chão Rodrigues                       4,640,235      170    600        102,000
Conclusão Centro Comunitário - Mato Gegé                          5,302,000      120    600         72,000
                         S. Miguel                       62,598,246                                830,000
 Construção de 1 Centro Dia para Idosos                          5,651,225       140    500         70,000
 Const. 2 jardins infantis- Aha. Monte e Palha Carga            17,241,649       340    500        170,000
 Const. 1 jardim infantil - Pilão Cão                            7,573,370       170    500         85,000
 Const 1 J. Infantil- Gongon/Chacha                              3,167,000       170    500         85,000
 Const 1 Centro Social - Veneza                                  5,293,925       140    500         70,000
 Const 1 Centro Social -Ach Monte                                  555,813       140    500         70,000
Construção 1 Centro Social -Pilao cao                             5,430,408      140    500         70,000
Const 1 Co Sanitário-Flamengos                                    5,138,752      140    500         70,000
Const 1 Centro Comunitário-Palha Carga                            6,964,000      140    500         70,000
Construção de 1 Centro Social em Achada Monte( Conc)              5,582,104      140    500         70,000
                        TARRAFAL                                51,121,339                       1,571,960
 Const. 2 jardins infantis- Milho Branco e Chão Bom              9,812,463       340    500        170,000
 Const. de 1 Centro Social-Chão Bom                             10,697,741       220    500        110,000
Const. de 1 Centro Social-Covão Sanches                          10,025,135      220    500        110,000
Calcet Vila tarrafal e chão Bom                                  10,520,000     7514    140      1,051,960
Const 1 Centro comunitário- Figuei Muita                          4,474,000      140    500         70,000
Construção de 1 USB - Achada Tenda                                2,796,000       60    500         30,000
 Construção de 1 USB - Trás os Montes                            2,796,000        60    500         30,000
                       S. VICENTE                             153,044,644                       15,507,040
 Reabilitação do Centro Comunitário de S.Pedro                   1,919,339       120    500         60,000
Const. de Instalações Sanitárias em Alto Doca                     2,005,915       60    500         30,000
Extensão Rede Viária                                             27,546,610    21189    500     10,594,500
Saneamento Básico, Extensão Rede Esgostos                        11,800,912              500             0
Extensão Rede Viária - Ribeira Craquinha                          7,704,205     5926    140        829,640
Extensão Rede Viária - Fonte Inês                                12,179,880     9368    140      1,311,520
Extensão Rede Viária - Rª.Passarão e Alto Mira Mar               10,488,736     8067    140      1,129,380
Ampliação Escola -Pedra Rolada                                    1,269,149       80    500         40,000
Const. 1 Placa Desp: Escola-Fonte Ines                              997,000     1100    500        550,000
Reabilita 1 Cent Comunit-Rª Craquinha                             2,679,000      140    500         70,000
Const1 Jardim Infantil-Calhau                                     7,752,715      220    500        110,000
Const 1 Posto Sanitário -Chã Alecrim                              7,067,027      100    500         50,000
Const 1 Centro Acolhim-Chã Alecrim                                9,052,262      120    500         60,000
Reabilitação 2 centros Comunit                                    3,292,670      240    500        120,000
Const. 4 reservatórios                                            2,120,000       64    500         32,000
Const 1 jardim Infantil                                           9,395,181      240    500        120,000




                                                          - 28 -

Reabilitação do Bairro De Alto de S.joão- Alto S. João          35,774,044      800    500       400,000


                   RIBEIRA GRANDE                              98,710,113                      1,140,000
Const. Centro Comunit. de Pescadores-Sinagoga                   4,936,000       160    500        80,000
Const. de 1 Centro de Dia para Idosos-Serrado                   16,674,740      300    500       150,000
Const. de 1 Unidade Sanitária-Pinhão                             5,223,371      100    500        50,000
Const. de 1 Centro Socio-Comunit.-Figueiral                      6,133,748      130    500        65,000
Const. 1 centro Dia para Idosos - Ponta do Sol                   9,705,658      200    500       100,000
Const. 2 jardins infancia - Pia Cima e Lugar Guene               8,479,187      340    500       170,000
Const. 1 matadouro - Ponta do Sol                                3,828,192       80    500        40,000
Const 1 Centro Desenv Comun- Coculi                              7,013,309      160    500        80,000
Const 1 Cent Desenv. Comu-Chã Igrja                            10,369,072       180    500        90,000
Const 1 Centro Dese. Comun- Caibros                              2,259,000      120    500        60,000
Const 1 Centro De Comu-Figueiras                               10,189,710       180    500        90,000
Constr 1 Centro De Comu-Fontaính                                 5,593,055      160    500        80,000
Const 1 jardim infant-Lombo Santa                                4,034,572      170    500        85,000
Reparação Cami Vicinais-Figueiras                               4,270,500
                     PORTO NOVO                                84,476,353                      1,180,000
Const. 1 USB - Aldeia Norte                                     4,216,618        60    400        24,000
Const. 1 jardim infantil - Martiene                              4,553,936      120    400        48,000
Const. 1 jardim infantil - Alto Mira                             4,935,307      120    400        48,000
Const. 1 Centro dia/lar idosos- Rª das Patas                     7,018,215      140    400        56,000
Const. 1 polivalente - Rª das Patas                             11,733,384     1100    400       440,000
Conclusão 1 USB - Curral das Vacas                              1,752,966        60    400        24,000
Conclusão 1 USB - Lajedos                                       1,396,163        60    400        24,000
Const. de 1 Mercado de Peixe - Vila PN                           8,136,516      150    400        60,000
Muro de protec da praia do armaz e Conc de Praceta             10,164,000       160    400        64,000
Const 1 Jardim Infantil- Manuel Lopes                            2,922,000      170    400        68,000
Conc 1 Centro Multiuso - Alto S. Tomé                            4,292,739      150    400        60,000
Const 1 Jardim Infantil - Casa Meio                             2,894,133       120    400        48,000
Const 1 Jardim Infantil - Chã Norte                              2,972,000      120    400        48,000
Reabilitação 5 sentinas                                          4,751,693      100    400        40,000
Construção 1 jardim Infantil                                     5,154,721      120    400        48,000
Construção 1 USB                                                2,363,413        60    400        24,000
Recuperação escola Mato Estreito                                5,218,549       140    400        56,000
                           PAÚL                                63,647,155                      2,462,400
Const. 1 centro juventude-Vila das Pombas                      13,964,961       160    500        80,000
Const. 1 jardim infantil - Santa Isabel                          5,162,281      120    500        60,000
Const. 1 sentina municipal - Pico da Cruz                        3,598,242       40    500        20,000
Const. De Parque infantil-Vila das Pombas                       10,127,516      300    500       150,000
Const 1 Centro Comunitário- P Moças                              6,697,315      170    500        85,000
Const 1 Centro Comu - Lombinho                                   7,178,840      170    500        85,000
Cal Chã M Sant/ Chã João Vaz                                    9,818,000      5454    140       763,560
Calcet Pontinha de Janela                                       7,100,000      3994    140       559,160
Conc calcet de Chã Manuel Santos a Chã de João V                 8,482,000     4712    140       659,680
                         S. FILIPE                             66,067,368                      5,414,740
Const 1 Ce Comun Polivalen-Lomba                               17,582,983      1200    500       600,000
Const. 1 Jardim Infantil-Figueira Pavão                         3,071,000       170    500        85,000
Const 1 Centro Comunitário- Roçadas                            18,037,708       140    500        70,000
Reabilitação 1 Estrada- Camp. Baixo                             15,243,000     7621    500     3,810,500
Const. 1 Estrada de Penetração- Achada Fora                     12,132,677     6066    140       849,240
                      MOSTEIROS                                85,259,548                      5,009,880
Const 1 Polidesportivo-Mst trás                                18,658,503      1200    500       600,000
Const 1 Jardim Infantil-Rª Ilhéu                                 4,816,000      170    500        85,000
Conclusão de 1 Estrada - Achada Grande a Relva                  39,273,000    19636    140     2,749,040
Construção da Estrada Baia do Corvo - Mosteiros                 22,512,045    11256    140     1,575,840
                           MAIO                              110,131,990                      10,736,200
Construção da Rede Viária Principal- Calheta                   15,714,844     12652    140     1,771,280
Construção Bloco de Apoio Escola EBI - Calheta                   2,381,162       60    400        24,000
Const de 2 Rese Água Potável- P. Vaz e Pr.Gonç                   2,687,956       16    400         6,400
Construção Estrada P. Vaz / Alcatraz                            34,997,698    24997    140     3,499,580




                                                          - 29 -

Conc. Est Pedro Vaz a Alcatraz-Pedro Vaz e Alcatraz              54,350,329             38821      140     5,434,940
                     S. NICOLAU                                 88,483,927                                 6,635,300
 Const de 1 Chafariz -Lompelado                                  1,032,947                   20    500        10,000
Const de 2 Sentinas-V. Tarrafal                                   4,686,025                  40    500        20,000
Conc 1 Centro Social-Caleijaão                                    2,357,082                120     500        60,000
Conc 1 Centro Social-Carriçal                                     5,611,346                170     500        85,000
Const da Estrada Caleijão a Vila Rª Brava                        28,633,000             20452      140     2,863,280
Const Passad Subm -Vila R-ª Brava                                 2,020,189                336     140        47,040
Concl 1 Centro Social- Juncalino                                  9,336,540                140     500        70,000
Conclusão da Estrada de Caleijão a RªBrava-João Baptista         34,806,798             24857      140     3,479,980
                      BOA VISTA                                 32,258,382                                 2,687,120
 Extensão da Rede Viária, Vila Sal Rei                           3,900,000               3250      140       455,000
Extensão Rede Viária, Rabil, est.Baix                             2,784,546              2320      140       324,800
Const 1 Centro de Infor Juvent-Sal Rei                            9,566,506                100     400        40,000
Ext Rd Viária, J.Galego, FF,CT                                    6,095,621              5079      140       711,060
Const da Estrada Rabil a Pov Velha                                9,911,709              8259      140     1,156,260
                           SAL                                  25,358,000                                 2,359,860
 Const 1 Com Sanitário-Chã Matias                                2,150,000                   60    600        36,000
Extensão da Rede viaria em hortelã                               21,260,000             15185      140     2,125,900
Pavim Via Acesso ao EBI Bairro IFH                                1,948,000              1414      140       197,960
                         BRAVA                                  43,465,393                                   321,600
 Reabilitação de 2 USB-Cachaço e N:Sra                           3,571,520                 120     600        72,000
Reabilitação de 1 USB-Furna                                       2,413,771                  60    600        36,000
Const. 1 Cisterna Comunitária- Pau                                8,036,110                  16    600         9,600
Const. 1 Jardim Infantil-Mato                                     7,156,000                170     600       102,000
Const. 1 Jardim Infantil-Fajã d´Agua                              7,258,604                170     600       102,000
Reab. caminhos carroçáveis-Laranjeiras                            8,670,388
 Reab. caminhos carroçáveis-Tapume a Mato                        6,359,000
 TOTAL                                                       1,484,663,082 Total Municipalities           80,476,600
                                                                           contribution




                                                           - 30 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

One important objective of the National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) that was supported by
the SSDP was to develop an economically sustainable alternative to the traditional labor-intensive
public works system. This system, known as FAIMO, was set up in the 1980s to counteract the high rural
unemployment resulting form periodic droughts and consists mainly of rural roads and infrastructure.
FAIMO represents an important social safety net for the poor, but it has been criticized for its low
efficiency and for generating a welfare mentality. By creating AGECABO, the SSDP aimed at assisting the
Government in developing the institutional capacity to execute public works that can provide employment
for the poor in a cost-effective manner. The model followed in setting up AGECABO was that of the
public works employment agencies known as AGETIP, successfully pioneered in Senegal in 1989 and
replicated throughout West Africa. This Annex analyzes the performance of AGECABO and then
compares it to other labor-intensive public works programs. These include FAIMO programs, such as
ACDI/VOCA (small agriculture infrastructure implemented through farmers associations), INERF (larger
rural engineering works) and municipal FAIMOs (labor-intensive road repairs, clean-up activities), as well
as non FAIMO programs, such as the IDA-financed PROMEF (school construction) and the Ministry of
Infrastructure and Transport (MIT) programs (roads).

AGECABO was able to generate a significant amount of employment for the poor. The AGECABO
program generated more than 32,000 person-month of direct and indirect employment during the 2000-05
period, equivalent to 2,667 person-year (indirect employment is included because private contractors tend
to subcontract labor intensive components such as cut stone, cement blocs, carpentry). The vast majority
of this employment (95 percent) consisted of low-skilled jobs accessible to the individuals traditionally
targeted by FAIMO programs. This means that, on average, AGECABO created 6,200 person-months of
work per year. However, when it was operating at its full capacity in 2003, the Agency generated 13,142
person-months (43 percent of the total). This result is in the same order of magnitude as the two main
FAIMO programs, ACDI-VOCA and INERF, that generated each between 11,000 and 12,000
person-months per year in the period 2000-01.  1




The seasonality of AGECABO's employment creation was fully synchronized with unemployment
periods. In Cape Verde, agricultural works are during the rainy season (June-October) and rural
unemployment is high during the dry season (November-June). The AGECABO's pattern of generated
employment was fully synchronized with the labor demand, as shown by the graph below for the year 2003.
This compares favorably to ACDI-VOCA, whose job creation was slightly out of step with the needs, and
INERF, which actually did not create jobs in the high unemployment period. In both cases, the
misalignment of job creation was due to inadequate availability of funding.




                                                    - 31 -

Graph: Employment generated by AGECABO per month during year 2003


                                              Emprego em Pessoas/Mês

   2500
   2000
   1500
   1000
     500
         0




            01/01/2003  02/01/2003  03/01/2003   04/01/2003  05/01/2003  06/01/2003  07/01/2003  08/01/2003  09/01/2003  10/01/2003  11/01/2003  12/01/2003


Source: AGECABO, March 2005.

Wages paid to low-skilled workers by small private contractors or communities under contracts with
AGECABO were much higher than those of FAIMO programs. During 2000-05 daily wages paid by
contractors to low-skilled workers averaged CVE 630 equivalent to about US$8 (see table 1 of Annex 1),
in line with market prices. These wages were higher than those paid by the FAIMO programs, which
ranged between CVE 270 and CVE 400 (in particular, ACDI/VOCA paid CVE 400, INERF paid CVE
310 and municipal FAIMOs paid CVE 270). While the wages paid by the FAIMO system were kept below
the market rate to encourage self-targeting, they were considered by workers quite inadequate to provide a
decent living and resulted in lower productivity that lead to long implementation delays. The wages paid by
ACECABO's contractors, on the other hand, promoted productivity as evidenced by the ratio of timely
deliveries.

Cost-Effectiveness of AGECABO in Employment Generation

The cost of the AGECABO program per worker employed is estimated to be half the cost of a
comparable FAIMO program. Calculations including all costs (all contracts plus the Agency cost) and
all employment (direct plus indirect) show that the average cost per worker employed during one year was
CVE 575,000 during the 2000-05 period, and was at its lowest in 2003 at CVE 518,000 (see table). While
this is substantially higher than the costs of the ACDI/VOCA and INERF programs (CVE 310,000 in
2001, the only year for which data are available), it is almost half of cost per worker of the municipal
FAIMO program. The results of the comparison with ACDI/VOCA and INERF are not surprising as both
                                  2


programs focused on soil and water conservation works and rural engineering works that are by nature
more labor-intensive than AGECABO's program of socio-economic infrastructure. Also, the INERF ratio
is probably significantly underestimated as the available data do not include the cost of DGASP to plan and
design the projects or the cost of INERF's vehicles and equipment. Comparison with the municipal FAIMO
program is far more relevant as the AGECABO program was demand-driven by municipalities (hence,
municipalities were simultaneously planning their own FAIMO programs and AGECABO - managed
programs) and the type of public works carried out was similar.

As a whole, AGECABO was highly efficient in keeping a high labor level in public works contracts
for the construction of basic socio-economic infrastructure. Labor accounted for 34 percent of total



                                                                                                 - 32 -

expenditures (i.e., including the Agency cost) in the AGECABO program; as could be expected, it was
much higher for road construction (19 percent of the contracts) than for buildings such as schools and
health centers. ACECABO labor share is much higher than in other comparable civil works projects.
Comparisons with other public works programs have to be made with caution because of the reasons
explained above. Because of the more labor-intensive nature of the works executed by the ACDI/VOCA
and INERF programs, their labor ratio is higher, respectively 52 percent and 37 percent. But municipal
FAIMO programs, which are more similar to ACECABO, had a labor ratio of 20 percent, suggesting that
municipalities would be better off in working through AGECABO if they want to maximize employment
creation in their public works programs.

Cost-Effectiveness of ACECABO in Executing Public Works

Primary schools built under ACECABO management are cost-effective. Comparing the
cost-effectiveness of public works across programs is problematic because of the different types of public
works executed, so the analysis is limited to primary schools and rural roads. The average cost of schools
built by small contractors in the AGECABO program (CVE 3.11 million) was about 24 percent lower than
the MIT cost through centralized procurement. Because of this difference, and because ACECABO
contractors delivered in a timely manner, the Ministry of Education (MoE) decided in 2001 to shift from
MIT to AGECABO the management of its IDA-financed school construction program (PROMEF). In
2005, the MoE signed a new contract with AGECABO for the school construction program financed by
the Netherlands. In the meantime, the MoE has learned lessons form AGECABO and, form time to time,
directly manages small contracts for school construction, awarded according to the competitive method
promoted by AGECABO (three quotations) with results similar to AGECABO.

Rural roads built under AGECABO management as well appear cost cost-effective. The prime
objective of the road projects financed by AGECABO was to improve access to social and administrative
services and market opportunities for isolated community. Since there was no reference data on initial
traffic nor means to estimate future traffic, it was not possible to conduct a cost-benefit analysis and a
cost-effectiveness approach was used instead. The "least cost solution" was adopted as the
                                                 .3


cost-effectiveness indicator for comparing alternative investments; in this case the least cost solution for
surfacing roads with little or no existing traffic was cobblestone, which was always chosen by AGECABO        4


. The average cost of road construction was about CVE 11,000 per linear meter , equivalent to US$138.
                                                                                   5


This cost corresponds to two-third of the costs estimated by the MIT for such roads in the Road Sector
Support Project. The MIT assesses positively AGECABO's contribution to the national road program as:
(i) the MIT does not have the capacity to answer the important national needs, particularly for small rural
roads; (ii) AGECABO is following MIT's technical standards, and (iii) the quality of works executed by
contractors under contract with AGECABO is as high as that of contractors working with MIT.

Compared to contract management agencies in other countries, AGECABO has achieved good
results in terms of cost-efficiency. Cross country comparison can be based on school construction since
design and technical characteristics are similar. AGECABO's performance can be compared to AGETIP's
performance in Senegal which uses identical implementation arrangements. In the AGECABO system,
schools are built at a cost that is 25 percent higher than schools built by AGETIP, but the cost of inputs is
much higher in Cape Verde, due to its island status. For example, cement is 42 percent more expensive,
and wood and low-skilled labor are twice as expensive.




                                                      - 33 -

Cost-Effectiveness of AGECABO as an Agency

The Agency has shown considerable flexibility in adjusting its cost to its volume of activities. As
shown in Table 1 of Annex 1, the cost of the Agency peaked in 2002 at CVE 50 million, and was down to
33 million in 2004. The management of the Agency took appropriate steps to adapt to changing volume of
operations, including a 15 percent salary cut in 2003 and an adjustment of the number of construction
specialists to the workload of the Agency. On average the Agency was composed of nine staff during the
whole period 2000-05, with a maximum of 13 staff in 2003 when its work volume peaked.

AGECABO has shown that it can manage its program in a cost-effective manner. AGECABO's
cost-effectiveness in program management can be measured by the ratio of its total cost to the financial
volume of the works managed by the Agency. As shown in table 1, this ratio averaged 11 percent during
the 2000-05 period. However, it was 8.6 percent during 2003 when the Agency was working at its full
capacity. Although the average is slightly above the 10 percent target performance indicator, the Agency's
performance in 2003 shows that it succeeded in managing its program in a more cost-effective manner than
targeted. Initially, operating costs were higher as typical of AGETIP-type agencies. There is no doubt that
the 8.6 percent ratio could have been maintained overtime if the volume of work of the Agency would have
remained at the 2003 level or expanded.


Notes
1. Siri, G., Goovaerts, P. Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Public Works Programs in Cape Verde. July 2002, p. 20.
2. Siri, G., Goovaerts, P. Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Public Works Programs in Cape Verde. July 2002, p. 35.
3. Road Sector Support Project, Project Appraisal Document, Annex 9, p. 64.
4. It is also a higher labor intensive solution.
5. Aide memoire ICR mission. March 2005.




                                                             - 34 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              01/1996                   4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             NUTRITIONIST (1),
                                             ECONOMIST - UNDP (1);
                                             POVERTY SPEC. (1)
              09/1996                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              12/1996                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER
              03/1997                   3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1),
                                             ECONOMIST (1),
                                             IMPLEMENTATION SPEC. (1)
              05/1997                   4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL FUND SPEC. (1);
                                             AGETIP SPEC. (1); NGO
                                             PARTICIPATION SPEC. (1)
              11/1997                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)
              01/1998                   5    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOCIAL FUND SPEC. (1);
                                             IMPL. SPEC. (1); AGETIP
                                             SPEC. (1); NGO PART. SPEC.
                                             (1)
              07/1998                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              10/1998                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)
              12/1998                   2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/1999                   7    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             SOC. FUND SPEC. (1);
                                             OPER. MGT SPEC. (2);
                                             ECONOMIST (2); AGETIP
                                             SPEC. (1)


 Supervision
              05/2000                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              07/2000                   1    TASK TEAM LEADER (1)             S               S
              11/2000                   1    FIN. MGT SPEC. (1)               S               S
              06/2001                   5    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                             (1); PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             ENGINEER/INSTIT. DEVEL
                                             (1); ENVIRONMENT/COMM.
                                             DEVP (1)



                                              - 35 -

      10/2001    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                   (1); FINANCIAL
                   MANAGEMENT (1);
                   CONSULTANT (2)
      05/2002    1 SR. STATISTICIAN (1)           S    S
      10/2002    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                   (1); PROCUREMENT
                   SPECIALIST (1); ENGINEER -
                   INSTITUTION (1)
      04/2003    5 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                   FIN. MGT SPECIALIST (1); SR
                   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER (1);
                   CONSULTANT (1); SR
                   STATISTICIAN (1)
      10/2003    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                   INFRA. SPEC. (1); OPER.
                   OFFICER. (1); FIN. MGT.
                   SPEC. (1)
      05/2004    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                   INFRA. SPEC. (1); LEAD SP
                   SPEC. (1); POVERTY SPEC. (1)
      10/2004    4 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          U    U
                   LEAD SP SPEC. (1); PROC.
                   ANAL. (1); INFRA. SPEC. (1)

ICR
      03/05      3 TASK TEAM LEADER (1);          S    S
                   SR. SP SPEC. (1); SR.
                   IMPLEMENTATION
                   SPEC. (1)




                   - 36 -

Supplemental Credit (P086628)

 Stage of Project Cycle                      No. of Persons and Speciality                   Performance Rating
                                                                                        Implementation  Development
                       Month/Year Count              Speciality                           Progress       Objective
 Identification/Preparation

                  07/2003                    3       TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                     INFRA. SPEC. (1); FIN. MGT.
                                                     SPEC. (1)
 Appraisal/Negotiations

                  10/2003                    4       TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                                     INFRA. SPEC. (1); OPER. OFF.
                                                     (1); FIN. MGT. SPEC. (1)
 Supervision

                  05/2004                    4       TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S             S
                                                     INFRA. SPEC. (1); LEAD SP
                                                     SPEC. (1); POVERTY SPEC. (1)

                  10/2004                    4       TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              U             U
                                                     LEAD SP SPEC. (1); PROC.
                                                     ANAL. (1); INFRA. SPEC. (1)




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                          Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                      US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                      89.1                           239.8
  Appraisal/Negotiation                           12.7                             28.3
  Supervision                                     92.7                              271
  ICR                                              8.0                               21
  Total                                         202.5                            560.1
ICR staff inputs combine the original and supplemental credits.

Supplemental Credit (P086628)

  Stage of Project Cycle                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                       US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   2.0                             6.7
  Appraisal/Negotiations                       1.1                             3.5
  Supervision                                  6.9                            22.8
  ICR                                             --                            --
  Total                                       10.0                            33.0




                                                     - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Official Documents, Sources of Data, and Analytical Reports for Cape Verde

Avaliação do Impacto na Perspectiva dos Beneficiários dos Projectos de Investimento no âmbito do
Programa Nacional de Luta Contra a Pobreza em Cabo Verde; Relatório Final. June 2003.

Cap Vert. Rapport analytique du système de passation des marchés. 30 juin 2000.

Cap Vert. Rapport analytique du système de passation des marchés. 30 juin 2004.

Estatutos do Instituto Nacional de Estatística, Decreto Regulamentar N. 9/2000 de 4 de Setembro,
Conselho de Ministros.

Étude pour la constitution d'un fonds de Développement Social au Sein du Programme National de Lutte
Contre la Pauvreté au Cap Vert (Document Final), July-August, 1997.

Furtado, Claudio, Relatório da Revisão a Meio-Percurso do Programa de Desenvolvimento do Sector
Social (PDSS); Ministério da Saúde, Emprego e Solidariedade,Unidade de Coordenação, Programa
Nacional de Luta contra a pobreza. July-August, 2001.

Gabinete da Secretária de Estado para a Luta contra a Pobreza, Célula de Mobilização e Sensibilização
Social, Plano de Actividades para 1999, Março 1999.

Gabinete da Secretária de Estado para a Luta contra a Pobreza, Célula de Mobilização e Sensibilização
Social. Programa de Actividades para o ano de 1999, Fevereiro de 1999.

Governo de Cabo Verde, Cabo Verde; Estratégia de Crescimento e de Redução da Pobreza (2005/2007,
Praia, November 2004.

Ministério da Saúde, Emprego e Solidareidade (Observatório da Pobreza). Bolsas de Pobreza; Proposta de
Seguimento e Avaliação. Agosto 2001.

Ministério das Finanças e Planeamento, Documento de Estratégia de Crescimento e de Redução da
Pobreza, Praia, September 2004.

MORABI. Programa Nacional de Luta Contra a Pobreza (PNLP); Guia prático de gestão e manutenção
de infra-estruturas, 2004.

Programa Nacional de Luta contra a Pobreza (PNLP), Aplicação informática do Sistema de documentação
do PLPR, Banco de dados Documentação (versão 0), Janeiro 2001.

Programa Nacional de Luta contra a Pobreza (PNLP), Projet de promotion socio-économique des groupes
défavorisés (PSGD); financement BAD. 2005-03-24

Programa Nacional de Luta Contra a Pobreza, Unidade de Coordenação, Relatório de Actividadtes,
Quarterly Reports. Years 1999 through 2005.

Programa Nacional de Luta contra a Pobreza. Inquérito Sobre as Condições de Vida das Famílias,


                                                    - 40 -

Convenção Nº 002/2001, Procedimentos e instrumentos para a gestão financeira da Convenção

Programme National de Lutte Contre La Pauvreté (PNLP), Composante «Reconversion des FAIMO»,
Rapport de mission 18-21 mars 1997.

Republic of Cape Verde, Micro Enterprise Training and Lending Program, Cape Verde PL-480
Monetization Program, A Project Proposal, November 1995.

República de Cabo Verde, AGECABO, Audit technique(annuel).

República de Cabo Verde, AGECABO, Audit technique; Phase Pilote 1999 ­ 1º Semestre et 2º Semestre
2000, October 2002.

República de Cabo Verde, AGECABO, Relatório de Actividades. Years 2000-2005

República de Cabo Verde, AGECABO, Relatório Seminário de Formação de Pequenos Empreiteiros da
Fase Piloto, May 2002.

República de Cabo Verde, Ministério da Saúde, Emprego e Soldariedade, Unidade de Coordenação do
Programa Nacional de Luta contra a Pobreza, Workshop report on Qualification Institutionnelle du PNLP
, Chefia do Governo, May 3, 2002

República de Cabo Verde, Declaração da Política de Desenvolvimento do Sector, Programa Nacional de
Luta contra a Pobreza.

Rural Poverty Alleviation Programme (PLPR), Appraisal Report, Volume I, Main Report, Confidential,
Report No. 0967-CV-July 1999.

Siri, Gabriel and Goovaerts, Piet, Analysis of the Costs and Benefits of Public Works Programs in Cape
Verde, Executive Summary and Full Report (with the collaboration of Antonio Sabino), Program
Coordination Unit, National Poverty Alleviation Program, July 2002.

Wirrankoski, Paul-Henri, AFRISTAT, Rapport de Mission, Observatoire Economique et Statistique
d'Afrique Subsaharienne, December 11-18, 2000.

World Bank Documents

Bank's Aide mémoire (from identification to completion missions).

IDA. First Poverty Reduction Support Credit. Program Document. Report No. 30056-CV. January 26,
2005.

Lucas, Frank R, Draft Consultant Report, Mission 19 May ­ 21 June 2001, International Analysis of the
National Poverty Alleviation Program and IDA Social Sector Development Project (PDSS).

OPCS/OED. Joint Guidelines for Use in ICRs and in OED Assesssments; Rating the Outcome of Projects
with Formally Revised Objectives. January 2005.

Poverty in Cape Verde, A summary Assessment and a Strategy for its Alleviation, June 30, 1994.


                                                   - 41 -

Other Analytical Reports

FIDA, Programme de lutte contre la pauvreté (PNLP), Mission intercycles opération et programme de
travail pour la Phase 2, Rapport No. 1552-OV, January 2004.

FIDA, Rapport de la Mission de Supervision, 14-26 mai 2001, Programme National de Lutte contra la
Pauvreté Rurale, Prêt FIDA 510-CV.

Miscellaneous

Convenção-Quadro Reguladora das Relações entre o Governo de Cabo Verde e a Agência de Promoção do
Emprego e do Desenvolvimento Local "AGECABO" no âmbito do programa de luta contra a pobreza.

Etude pour la Constitution d'un fonds de Développement Social. Document Complémentaire de Synthèse ­
Expériences en cours au Cap Vert ­ Résumé de l'action de quelques «Fonds».

Fonds Africain de Développement. Projet de Promotion Socio-Economique des groupes défavorises.
Rapport d'évaluation. Octobre 1999.

International Monetary Fund, Cape Verde: 2001 Article IV Consultation, Staff Report and Public
Information Notice on the Executive Board Discussion, Country Report No. 01/174, October 2001




                                                 - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Contribution

The Borrower prepared the following end-of-project report for credits 3224-CV and 3224-1-CV. The
English translation is followed by the original report in Portuguese.


                                                 Republic of Cape Verde

                                    MINISTRY OF LABOR AND SOLIDARITY

                                                  Office of the Minister

                                     Social Sector Development Project (SSDP)

                                   Evaluation by the Government of Cape Verde


         Praia, August 30, 2005

         The Government of Cape Verde has made a favorable assessment of the Social Sector
Development Project (SSDP) carried out with World Bank financing.

         The major goal of that project, which begun in 1999 and ended March 31, 2005, was a sustained
30% reduction in the poverty of the population living below the poverty line. Two priority approaches
were: (1) public works and employment; and (2) skills-building, follow-up, and evaluation.

         From this standpoint, the following were established as the principal specific objectives of the
project:

         (i) assisting in the restructuration of the High Labor-Intensive Public Works Program (FAIMO)
by: (1) developing institutional capacity (AGECABO) [Agency for Public Works and Employment] for
responsibly executing public works that are: (a) economically and socially useful; (b) effectively carried out
by the public sector; and (c) based essentially on methods that make intensive use of labor.

         (ii) strengthening institutional capacity within the community, local government, and NGOs, a
condition deemed necessary to effective and efficient implementation of actions to combat poverty; and

         (iii) establishing a capacity to coordinate, follow up, and evaluate the National Anti-Poverty
Program at the different levels (central, local, and community).

IMPLEMENTING THE SSDP

         The preparation phase of the SSDP began in 1997, and was financed by a grant of US$150,000
from Japan.

         A total of US$22.1 million was projected as needed for implementation. Fundraising was
distributed among the partners as follows: (i) IDA/World Bank US$20.1 million; (ii) Government of Cape
Verde US$1 million; and (iii) local governments/communities US$1.1 million. The loan agreement was
signed in May 1999, and actually went into effect on September 30 of that year.

         The Public Works and Employment Component. Basic social infrastructures was constructed to
improve access by the poor to vital equipment and services. Prominent in this regard were the construction
of Basic Health Units [Unidade Sanitária de Base ­ USB], kindergartens, classrooms, sanitary facilities (
sentinas), multi-use centers, highways, roads, markets, water and sanitation, environmental protection, and
multi-use sports centers, with priority given to previously-identified pockets of poverty.



                                                     - 43 -

         The Project completed 237 units of infrastructure, corresponding to almost 100% of the
programmed target. These contributed to a substantial improvement in people's living conditions.

         The Municipal, Community and NGO Skills-Building Component. A sizeable diversified
training team was put in place to gradually build up local capacity for planning, carrying out, and
managing actions aimed at reducing poverty. Furthermore, training and skills-building activities were
planned. Priority was given to involving former FAIMO workers and small local contractors.

         We should also make special mention of the seminars, workshops, and working visits conducted in
a decentralized fashion. These played an important role in consolidating the partnership relationships
between the Program Coordination Unit (PCU) and the partners.

         Strengthening Institutional Capacity. We found that the capacity for follow-up and evaluation of
the NPAP [National Poverty Alleviation Program] has been significantly improved. Gains were made in the
financial and technical managerial skills of the PCU. Indeed, we were quite satisfied to see that they were
able to respond efficiently and effectively to the requirements of a program of multidimensional nature and
of undeniable complexity. By adopting a simple and conveniently-organized structure, the PCU
demonstrated skills and capacities that will enable them to ensure proper coordination of programmed
activities.

         Creation of Institutional Capacity ­ AGECABO

         The Government recognizes the significant impact resulting from the decision made to implement
projects using the Delegation Contract Management approach. This translated into (1) strengthening the
capacity of the central administration and of the local governments to manage and execute public works,
(2) establishing highly successful alternative to the FAIMO system, (3) increasing the ability to create jobs
and distributing income in the least favored communities, (5) introducing sound and disciplined practices
into the market of small-scale public works for employment, and (6) contributing to poverty reduction.

         In accordance with the initial objective of the SSDP, establishment of AGECABO means that there
is now an institutional capacity for executing projects quickly, efficiently, and transparently. The
innovative practices adopted by the staff of the agency constitute a benchmark and asset to be preserved.
This is why the Government will continue to use the agency's services in the realm of projects to be carried
out by budgetary support such as the PRSP [Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper], in the context of the MCA
[Millennium Challenge Account] or in other activities where the agency's involvement would seem to be
useful. AGECABO is now working under a formal agreement with the Ministry of Education to build
school infrastructures in the towns of the Island of Santiago, and under another agreement signed with the
NPAP in the context of the PSGD [Project for Social and Economic Promotion of the Least Favored
Groups].

         One explanation for the discrepancy between the initial objective of creation of 20,000
person/month jobs and the 12,800 jobs achieved at project-end may have to do with the fact that buildings
(such as community centers, schools, parks) were constructed. Although these activities are extremely
important for social utility and impact on poverty, they, unlike road construction, are not really
labor-intensive. This question will be examined in greater detail in the final report.

         Contribution to Poverty Alleviation

         In as much as poverty in Cape Verde is a multifaceted problem, it has been attacked on several
fronts. Some of these efforts involved direct intervention by the SSDP in coordination with other
components of the NPAP. It is, however, difficult to measure the direct contribution by the SSDP to the
reduction of poverty in Cape Verde, since it is practically impossible to separate the net effects of the
SSDP from those supported by the central government, local governments, and other agencies.



                                                      - 44 -

         Nevertheless, one important contribution by the SSDP was the financing of the IDRF [National
Household Expenditure and Income Survey]. Its results enable us to calculate and more thoroughly analyze
the determinants of poverty. Poverty measured in relative terms in Cape Verde using a threshold of
43.250$, is a predominantly rural and asymmetric condition.

         The IDRF figures demonstrate the existence of a significant cleavage between the rural and urban
environments, as well as striking differences among the islands of this Republic. Pursuing the analysis of
those figures further, to reach more disaggregated geographic levels, reveals situations that are even more
asymmetric, which emphasizes the need to sharpen the focus of anti-poverty policies.

         The documents known as the Poverty Profile and Cape Verde Poverty Diagnostic show that the
determinants of poverty can be found in the absence of income and in low educational levels, among other
factors. The action by the SSDP in promoting an improvement in the quality of life for the poor by giving
them better access to potable water, basic sanitation, education, and health contribute directly to that
objective. And so we can be certain that the SSDP made a positive contribution to the battle against
poverty in Cape Verde by providing temporary jobs and income to the least favored groups and increasing
the coverage of basic social services in the identified pockets of poverty. It is estimated that actions
launched as part of the project have potentially benefited more than 270,000 people. Nevertheless, one must
be cautious in interpreting these figures.

         Although the proportion of individuals lifted out of poverty by the SSDP cannot be accurately
measured, the project's contribution in that regard has certainly been important, inasmuch as the program
benefits the workers in the FAIMO and the rural population, primarily the least favored. Beneficiaries seem
to agree that the SSDP work made a positive impact, since nearly three out of four (72.8%) believe that the
proposed objective of the project was indeed achieved.

         Contribution by the Central and Local Governments

         One of the mistakes in Project follow-up was the failure to set up a system that would permit
continuing quantification and evaluation of what the national contribution really would be. We know that
this participation has been much more than a simple transfer of funds or the furnishing of land for
buildings. For example, the Ministry of Environment, Agriculture, and Fishery have certainly played a
technical and physical role in several projects, but their contributions were not recorded on the books. The
same can be said of the municipalities and the beneficiaries themselves.

         The Government is greatly pleased that the Bank has put its faith in the abilities of this country and
has financed this important development tool, one that leaves behind an extremely rich experience that can
be tapped to tackle other challenges. Job creation, vocational training, literacy, increased availability of
running water for household use, bathrooms for all, affordable housing, micro-credit, communication and
information for development continue to be major areas where interventions are needed to reach on a larger
scale the neediest target population, especially women and children, young people who lack skills, the
handicapped, and the unemployed.


                                           Sidónio Fontes Lima Monteiro

                                          Minister of Labor and Solidarity


                              (Government's report in Portuguese--original version)




                                                    - 45 -

                        Projecto de Desenvolvimento do Sector Social (PDSS)

                                  Avaliação do Governo de Cabo Verde


                       MINISTERIO DO TRABALHO E SOLIDARIEDADE

                                          Gabinete do Ministro

Praia, 30 de Agosto de 2005


O Governo de Cabo Verde faz uma avaliação positiva do Projecto de Desenvolvimento do Sector Social

(PDSS), executado com o financiamento do Banco Mundial.

Esse Projecto iniciado em 1999, cujo término foi a 31 de Março de 2005, elegeu como grande meta a

redução sustentada da pobreza dos 30% da população residente que vive abaixo do nível da pobreza,

destacando dois eixos prioritários de intervenção: 1) Trabalhos Públicos e Emprego e, 2) Capacitação,

seguimento e avaliação.

Nesta perspectiva, fixaram-se como principais objectivos específicos do projecto:

i) o apoio a reestruturação das frentes de alta intensidade de mão-de-obra (FAIMO), através da: 1)

criação de uma capacidade institucional (Agecabo) para a execução responsável dos trabalhos públicos,

que sejam, simultaneamente; a) económico e socialmente úteis; b) executados de forma eficaz pelo

sector privado e; c) baseados essencialmente em técnicas de utilização de mão-de-obra de forma

intensiva;

ii) o reforço da capacidade institucional a nível das comunidades, dos municípios e das ONG, condição

julgada necessária à implementação eficaz e eficiente das intervenções de combate a pobreza, e;

iii) o estabelecimento de uma capacidade de coordenação, seguimento e avaliação do Programa Nacional

de Luta contra Pobreza, nos diferentes níveis (central, local e comunitário).

IMPLEMENTAÇÃO DO PDSS




                                                  - 46 -

O PDSS teve a sua fase de preparação iniciada em 1997, com o financiamento do donativo japonês de

US$ 150.000.

Para a sua implementação, um total de 22, 1 Milhões USD foi projectado, e sua mobilização distribuída

da seguinte forma entre os parceiros: i) IDA/Banco Mundial o montante de USD $20,1 milhões, ii) o

Governo de Cabo Verde o montante de USD $1 milhão e; iii) os Municípios/comunidades o valor USD

$1,1 milhões. O acordo de crédito foi assinado em Maio de 1999, tendo entrado em vigor ,

efectivamente, a 30 de Setembro do mesmo ano.

No âmbito da componente ­ Trabalhos Públicos e Emprego, foi construído um conjunto de

infra-estruturas sociais de base como forma de melhorar o acesso dos pobres aos principais

equipamentos e serviços. Destacam-se, neste particular, a construção de USBs, Jardins Infantis, Salas

de Aula, Sentinas, Centros Multi-Uso, Estradas, Caminhos, Mercados, Água e Saneamento, Protecção

Ambiental e Polidesportivos localizados prioritariamente nas bolsas de pobreza previamente

identificadas. Foram concluídas 237 infra-estruturas, correspondentes praticamente à 100% do

programado que contribuem para uma melhoria substancial das condições de vida das populações.

Na componente ­ Capacitação de Municípios, Comunidades e ONG's ­ foi implementado um amplo

e diversificado quadro de formação por forma a criar progressivamente uma capacidade local de

planificação, implementação e gestão de intervenções voltadas para a redução da pobreza. Por outro,

acções de formação e capacitação foram projectadas, tendo como grupos destinatários prioritários, os

ex-trabalhadores das FAIMO e os pequenos empreiteiros locais. Merece ainda destaque, os seminários,

workshops e as visitas de trabalho conduzidas descentralizadamente e que tem tido um papel importante

na consolidação das relações de parceria entre a UCP e os parceiros.


No reforço da Capacidade institucional, conclui-se que as capacidades de seguimento e avaliação do

PNLP sofreram melhorias substanciais. Houve ganhos na capacidade de gestão financeira e técnica de

UCP. Conseguiu de facto, de forma bastante satisfatória, responder eficiente e eficazmente às

exigências de um programa multidimensional e de complexidade inegável. De estrutura leve e

organizada convenientemente, a UCP apresenta-se dotada de habilidades e capacidades que permitiram

assegurar uma coordenação adequada das actividades programadas.


Criação de uma capacidade institucional ­ AGECABO:

O Governo reconhece o impacto significativo resultante da abordagem adoptada para a implementação

dos projectos de acordo com a metodologia de Delegação de Contratos, traduzido no (1) reforço da

administração central e dos municípios na gestão e execução de trabalhos públicos, (2) na constituição



                                                - 47 -

de uma alternativa bem sucedida a abordagem FAIMO, (3) na capacidade de criação de empregos e

distribuição de rendimentos nas comunidades mais desfavorecidas, (5) na disciplina e rigor introduzidos

no mercado de pequenas obras públicas para o emprego e (6) na sua contribuição para a redução da

pobreza.

Conforme objectivo inicial do PDSS, a criação da AGECABO se traduz actualmente na

institucionalização no país, de uma capacidade institucional para execução de projectos, de forma

rápida, eficiente e transparente. As práticas inovadoras adoptadas no quadro da agência, constituem um

referencial e capital a ser preservado, pelo que o Governo, continuará a utilizar os serviços da agência

no âmbito dos projectos a serem executados através do apoio orçamental como o PRSP, seja no quadro

do MCA, ou outros onde a intervenção da agência se mostrar relevante. De notar que a AGECABO

actualmente tem em execução uma convenção assinada com o Ministério de Educação para construção

de infra-estruturas escolares nos municípios de Santiago e outra assinada com o PNLP no quadro do

PSGD.

Sobre a diferença entre o objectivo inicial de criação de 20 mil postos de trabalho pessoa/mês e o

resultado alcançado de 12.800 postos no final do projecto, uma possível explicação teria a ver com a

construção edifícios (centros comunitários, escolas, jardins) em que não obstante a utilidade social e

impacto na redução da pobreza serem de extrema importância, não são no entanto trabalho intensivo,

como a construção de estradas por exemplo. No entanto, no relatório final apresentar-se-á uma análise

mais detalhada sobre essa questão.

Contribuição para a Diminuição da Pobreza

Sendo um fenómeno multifacetado, a pobreza em Cabo Verde tem sido combatida em várias frentes,

algumas delas através da intervenção directa do PDSS, em articulação com outras componentes do

PNLP. A contribuição directa do PDSS para a redução da pobreza em Cabo Verde constitui um

objectivo de difícil medição uma vez que é praticamente impossível dissociar os efeitos líquidos do

PDSS dos das demais intervenções conduzidas tanto pelo Governo Central como local e demais

intervenientes.

Uma das contribuições importantes do PDSS foi o financiamento do IDRF, cujos resultados permitem

calcular e aprofundar a análise das determinantes da pobreza. A pobreza, medida de forma relativa em

Cabo Verde, em função de um limiar de 43.250$, é um fenómeno predominantemente rural e

assimétrico.

Esses dados mostram a existência de uma clivagem sensível entre o meio rural e o meio urbano, bem

como diferenças gritantes entre as ilhas. O aprofundamento da análise desses dados para níveis




                                                  - 48 -

geográficos mais desagregados mostra situações ainda mais assimétricas, enfatizando a necessidade de

uma maior focalização das políticas no combate à pobreza.

O documento de Perfil da Pobreza e o Cape Verde Poverty Diagnostic mostram que as determinantes da

pobreza assentam na ausência de rendimento e no baixo nível educacional, entre outros factores. A

acção do PDSS ao promover a melhoria de qualidade de vida dos pobres através de um melhor acesso à

água potável, ao saneamento básico, à educação e à saúde, concorre directamente para esse objectivo.

Assim pode-se assegurar que, o PDSS teve um contributo positivo na luta contra a pobreza em Cabo

Verde, proporcionando emprego e rendimento temporário aos grupos mais desfavorecidos e aumentando

a cobertura de serviços sociais de base nas bolsas de pobreza identificadas. Estima-se que as acções

desencadeadas no quadro do projecto tenham beneficiado potencialmente mais de 270 mil pessoas.

Todavia, a leitura destes números requer prudência.

A proporção dos indivíduos excluídos da pobreza pelo PDSS não pode ser rigorosamente medido, mas

constitui um contributo certamente importante visto que o programa beneficia os trabalhadores das

FAIMO e a população rural, maioritariamente os mais desfavorecidos. Os beneficiários parecem

concordar que o impacto das obras do PDSS foram positivas na medida em que praticamente 3 em cada

4 (72,8%) consideram que o objectivo proposto com a realização da obra foi alcançado.

Contribuição do Governo e dos municípios.

Uma das falhas no seguimento do Projecto foi a não implementação de um sistema que permitisse uma

quantificação e avaliação permanente do que ia ser realmente a contribuição nacional. Sabemos que essa

participação tem sido muito mais do que a simples transferência monetária ou a disponibilização de

terrenos para construções. Por exemplo o Ministério de Ambiente, Agricultura e Pesca tem garantido

uma participação técnica e material em vários projectos mas não tem sido contabilizado. No mesmo

sentido, pode-se falar dos municípios e dos próprios beneficiários.

O Governo congratula-se pelo facto de o Banco ter acreditado nas capacidades do País e ter financiado

esse importante instrumento de desenvolvimento e que deixa uma experiência extremamente rica para

levar a cabo outros desafios do País. A criação de emprego, a formação profissional e alfabetização, a

generalização de água domiciliária e casas de banho para todos, a habitação social, o micro crédito, a

comunicação e informação para o desenvolvimento, continuam a ser os grandes sectores de intervenção

para atingir o público alvo mais carente, designadamente a mulher e a criança, os jovens sem formação,

os deficientes e os desempregados de uma forma global.

                                               O Ministro

                                     Sidónio Fontes Lima Monteiro




                                                - 49 -

                                                                  25°W                                                         24°W                                                   23°W

                                                                                                                                                                                       This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                   RIBEIRA                                                                                                                                             The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                  GRANDE                                                                                                                                               shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                               Ribeira Grande                                                                                                          Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                  Vila das Pombas                                                                                                      endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                     Ribeira da Cruz                     PAÚL

                                                Lajes                 Santo Antão
              17°N           PORTO         (1803 m)           Porto Novo                                                                                                                                                                              17°N
                             NOVO
                                                            Mindelo       SÃO VINCENTE
                                                                                                           W I N D W A R D
                                                                             Calhau
                                                      São Pedro       Madeiral
                                             São Vicente                              Santa Luzia                                                                                                  Sal
                                                                                                                                                                                   Espargos

                                                                                                                  SÃO NICOLAU
                                                                          Ilhéu Branco                                                                                              SAL
                                                                                  Ilhéu Raso       Riberia Brava                                                                                 Santa Maria
                                                                                                    Tarrafal       Preguica                      I S L A N D S
                                                                                                                 São Nicolau




                                                                                                       AT L A N T I C              O C E A N                                          Sal-Rei

                                                                                                                                                                              BOA VISTA                          Norte
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Boa Vista
                                                                                                                                                                                Povocão Velha
                                                                                                                                                                                Povocão
              16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    16°N




                        CAPE
                       VERDE




                                                                                                                                              DS

                  CAPE VERDE                                                               LEEWARD                          ISLANSão               Tiago
                                                                                                                             TARRAFAL
                                                                                                                                                        SANTA                      Maio
                                                                                                                                      Tarrafal          CRUZ                       MAIO
                                                                                                                             SANTA
                                                                                                                                                       Santa Cruz
                     SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                                                                             CATARINA                              Vila do Maio
                                                                                                                                     Santa Catarina
                     NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                               Mosteiros
                                                                                    Ilhéus Do                  Igreja MOSTEIROS                        São Domingo
                                                                                                                                                       São
                     RIVERS                                                           Rombo                                                                                                                                                           15°N
                                                                                                    Mt. Fogo
DECEMBER                                                                                                                                                              SÃO
                     MAIN ROADS                                                                    (2,829 m)                                                                                        0      10      20      30 Kilometers
                                                                           Brava        Furna                                                               PRAIA DOMINGOS                                                                                 IBRD
                                                                                              São                                      PRAIA
                     COUNTY (CONCELHO) BOUNDARIES                        BRAVA               Filipe                 SÃO FILIPE
                                                                                                                                                                                                    0            10          20             30 Miles           33383
        2004         INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                         Fogo
                                                                  25°W                                                         24°W                                                   23°W

