Document of
The World Bank
Report No 18747-CV
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 11.9 MILLION
(US$16.1 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
THE REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
FOR A
SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 30, 1999
Human Development II
Country Departnent 14
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective April 16, 1999)
Currency Unit = Escudos
94.515 Escudos = US$1
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR: January 1-December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB            African Development Bank
AGECABO         Agencia CaboVerdiana Para Emprego e Desenvolvimento Local
AGETIP          Agence d'Execution de Travaux d'Interet Public
CAS             Country Assistance Strategy
DCMA            Delegated Contract Management Agency
D.G.            Director General (of AGECABO)
E.U.            European Union
FAM             Fonds d'Appui aux Municipalitis
FAIMO           Frente a Alta Intensidad de Mano de Obra
GTI             Inter-Municipal Technical Cabinet
GTM             Municipal Technical Cabinet
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IDA             International Development Agency
IFAD            International Fund for Agricultural Development
MIS             Management Information System
MOD             Maitre d'Oeuvre Delegue (delegated contract management agency)
NCB             National Competitive Bidding
NGO             Non-Government Organization
NPAP            National Poverty Alleviation Program
PCU             Program Coordination Unit
PPF             Project Preparation Facility
PROMEX          Agency for the Promotion of Exportation
P.V.            Proces-Verbal
SIP             Sector Investment Program
SSA             Sub-Saharan Africa
TOR             Terms of Reference
Vice President     Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director   Mahmood A. Ayub
Sector Manager    Nicholas Burnett
Team Leader        Tonia Marek



Republic of Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
CONTENTS
A  Project Development Objective .................................................................2
1. Project development objective .................................................................2
2. Key  performance  indicators .................................................................2
B  Strategic Context .................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project .........3
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy  ...............................................................3
3. Sector issues to  be  addressed  by  the project and  strategic  choices .............                                            ...................4
C  Project Description Summary .................................................................6
1. Project components .................................................................6
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the project ................                                            ......................6
3. Benefits  and  target population .................................................................7
D  Project Rationale .................................................................7
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection  ........ .....................................7
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........... 9
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  the project design  ...............................9.................9
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership  .............9......................................9
5. Value  added  of Bank  support in this project ............................................................... 10
E  Summary Project Analysis ................................................................                                                                       10
1. Economic ................................................................                                                                        10
2. Financial ................................................................                                                                        10
3. Technical ................................................................                                                                        11
4. Institutional ................................................................                                                                    11
5. Social ................................................................                                                                           12
6. Environmental assessment ................................................................                                                         12
7. Participatory  approach ................................................................                                                          12
F Sustainability and Risks ................................................................                                                                        13
1. Sustainability ................................................................                                                                  13
2. Critical Risks ................................................................                                                                   14
3. Possible  Controversial Aspects ................................................................                                                  14
G  Main Loan Conditions ................................................................                                                                          15
1. Effectiveness  Conditions ................................................................ 15
2. Negotiation  Conditions ................................................................                                                          15
H  Readiness for Implementation ................................................................                                                                   15
I Compliance with Bank Policies ................................................................                                                                   16



Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Cost-Benefit Analysis Summary, or
Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.   Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or
Financial Summary
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.     Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table Al.    Consultant Selection Arrangements
Table B.     Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C.     Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 7.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 8.   Supervision Plan
Annex 9    Documents in Project File
Annex 10.  Training program for small entrepreneurs
Annex 11:  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 12.  Country at a Glance
Map: IBRD 30183



Republic of Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Region, CD 14
Date: April 30, 1999                               Team Leader: Tonia Marek, AFMSN
Country Director: Mahmood A. Ayub, AFC14           Sector Manager: Nicholas Burnett, AFTH2
Project ID: CV-PE-432                              Sector: Social Sector
Lending Instrument: Specific Investrnent Loan      Theme(s): Poverty alleviation
Poverty Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing
Data
[ I Loan    [xJ Credit      [] Grant      [ ] Guarantee    [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount US$m 16.1                          | SDR 11.9 m
Proposed terms: | u To be defined      [x] Multicurrency      [] Single currency
[x] Standard          [] Fixed                 LIBOR-baised
variable
Grace period (years):         10
Years to maturity:            40
Commitment fee:               0.5%
Service charge:               0.75%
Front-end fee on Bank          1.0%
loan:
b~~~~
Government                                              0.6               0.0               0.6
IDA                                                     8.9               7.2              16.1
Communities and Municipalities                          0.7               0.7               1.4
Total:                                                  10.2              7.9              18.1
Borrower: Republic of Cape Verde
Responsible agency: Office of the Vice-Prime Minister
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
Annual       3.3             4.5                4.4              3.9
Cumulative         3.3             7.8               12.2             16.1
Project implementation period: 4 years, FY 2000-2003
Expected effectiveness date: September 1, 1999            | Expected closing date: August 31, 2003
Implementing agency: Project Coordination Unit in the Office of the Vice-Prime Minister
Contact person: Mr. Manuel Roberto, PCU Coordinator
Address: Praia, Cape Verde
Tel: (238) 61-36-50             | Fax: (238) 61-37-12                   E-mail: pnlcp(dmail.cvtelecom.cv
OCS PAD Form: October 9, 1998



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 2
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The overall development objective is to contribute to reduce poverty among the 30% of the
population living below the poverty line by:
(i) assisting in the restructuring of the labor-intensive public works program (FAIMO) by
creating an institutional capacity (AGECABO) to execute public works that are: (a)
economically and/or socially useful; (b) executed cost-effectively by the private sector; and
(c) based on high labor intensive techniques;
(ii) building the capacity of municipalities, communities and NGOs in planning,
implementing and monitoring cost-effective poverty alleviation interventions; and
(iii) establishing a central capacity to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the 1998-2002
National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP).
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicators are as follows:
*  Percentage of poor
* Number of person/month of ex-FAIMO workers employed, by gender
*  Number of operating Municipal Commissions of Partners
*  An efficient donor coordination mechanism established for yearly joint review of the NPAP.



Project Appraisal Document                                                  Page 3
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see
Annex 1)
Document number: 17206CV          Date of latest CAS discussion: December 23, 1997
The broad objective of the 1997 CAS is to assist the Government of Cape Verde to achieve its
development agenda; sustaining macroeconomic stability, encouraging private sector
development, and emphasizing the social development of the population, especially of women
and children. The CAS envisages a support to the objectives of the Government's poverty
alleviation strategy, formulated in the National Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) -- an integral
part of the broader National Development Plan (1997-2000). The proposed project will support
the NPAP, and extend and deepen the impact of reforms initiated by the ongoing IDA assisted
public Sector Reform and Capacity Building project.
During March 20-21, 1997, the Bank organized a participatory consultation on the country key
priorities for the preparation of the CAS. Among the top five priorities recommended by a large
representation of the civil society, were (i) sustainable poverty reduction; and (ii) the building of
institutional capacity of municipalities. This project supports both these priorities.
In the area of poverty reduction and social sector development, the main objectives of the CAS are
to provide support to: (i) reforms and institutional strengthening of the existing welfare system;
(ii) skills development of the poor, particularly of women; (iii) child development through
improvements in the existing school-feeding program; (iv) improvements in the quality of
education; and (v) improvement of living standards through reliable and affordable supply of
water and sanitation. Furthermore, to improve the quality of life of Cape Verde's population, the
CAS objectives are also focused on: preservation of high budgetary allocations to social sectors,
development of basic social infrastructure; provision of reliable and affordable energy, water and
sanitation systems, development of social housing, and an intensified fight against desertification.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Context: Of Cape Verde's population of around 400,000 people, close to 30% live in poverty and
about 14% are in absolute poverty (1988 Household Survey). Poverty is predominantly a rural
phenomenon: some 70% of the poor, and 85% of the ultra poor live in rural areas. The incidence
of poverty is the highest among illiterate and female headed households. Some 40% of all
households in Cape Verde are headed by females and over a third are in poverty. The high
unemployment rate in Cape Verde (25%) is a key correlate of poverty with 44% of households
headed by an unemployed and poor person. The food security is precarious. TheSahelian climate
with prolonged periods of drought, a marked shortage of fresh water, and a high population
growth rate of 2.7% produce intolerable pressure on the fragile resource base. Rural poverty is a
principal cause of environmental degradation. The rare arable land is intensively cultivated, but
since 67% is hilly and not suitable for intensive cultivation, this has led to major land degradation
and declining soil fertility. Even in years with good rains Cape Verde produces only 60% of its
food requirements. Despite these harsh conditions, Cape Verde's social indicators are better than
the SSA averages, although some are deteriorating. For example, in 1990, 98% of children were
immunized against polio by their first year and 83% in 1995. The lack of access to safe water and
of adequate sanitation is a major health problem. Only 34% of the rural population have access to
safe water, they face long walks to public distribution points sometimes more than 2 km. Per



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 4
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
consumption is inadequate, only 12.5 liters/per day in rural areas. The sanitary waste disposal
poses another serious health problem. Just 24% of the population has access to sanitation, but 90%
of the rural population has no access. In the rapidly growing urban areas the lack of sanitation is
becoming a major health problem. These difficult conditions triggered emigration and now the
number of Cape Verdeans living outside their country is about double that living in Cape Verde.
These emigrants, who left in search of opportunities, actually are the opportunity for Cape Verde
to strengthen its connection to the outside world and to increase the possibilities of partnerships, in
terms of trade, resources, and information. The role of the diaspora in sending remittances to Cape
Verde has been fundamental in providing a social safety net for many Cape Verdeans.
Sector issues: Today about 20,000 people are still benefiting from FAIMO which serves
predominately as a welfare mechanism for the poor and which provides no incentive for improved
productivity. Government's efforts in maintaining a welfare program for the poor through FAIMO
created an unjustified "right to food aid" and a dependency on welfare which Government now
wants to decrease. In addition, Government wants to redirect public works from a top down,
centrally planned approach to one which is targeted to poor sections of municipalities and is driven
by communities' demand.
Government strategy: The Office of the Vice-Prime Minister is presently implementing a
National Social Sector Development Plan (1997- 2001). It will be supported by the National
Poverty Alleviation Program (NPAP) targeted at the 30% poor, which draws upon the findings of
the 1993 Poverty Assessment and the 1994 Strategy for Poverty Alleviation. Several donors are
helping Cape Verde with pilot poverty operations. However, there has never been a systematic
approach to poverty reduction with coordination of interventions and aid resources, and a certain
"balkanization" of the country (each donor focuses on one island) has prevented so far a country-
wide poverty approach. In addition, there has been several projects to alleviate poverty, but never a
program approach. The NPAP is aimed at improving the coordination, allocation, and effectiveness
of both government and donor resources to alleviate poverty. Over the two last decades the main
government strategy to fight food insecurity and poverty was supported by food aid. Food aid
provided close to 70% of total food imports. It provided food  ara-,  nd food aid counterpart
funds financed development projects, carried out duough labor intensive public works programs
(FAIMO) which created up to 24,000 jobs per year, particularly during July-August, when food is
most scarce. The dependency on FAIMO is strong: in the mid 1980's, off-farm wage income,
almost entirely supported by FAIMO, represented 27% and 34% of total household income on the
islands of Santiago and Santo Antao respectively. FAIMO employment was the main government
strategy to assure household food security. Another 50,000 people benefit from food aid, mainly
the poor ( 44% of all recipients), preschool children (38%), the handicapped (15%), and the sick
(1%). About 80% of the poor families that receive food aid are households headed by women.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The current welfare programs, in particular FAIMO, cover people for whom integration into the
market economy and carrying out a paid job are probably possible. The Government is aware of
these problems and has already started a process to reform FAIMO. 30% of resources for FAIMO
previously managed by the Ministry of Infrastructure have been decentralized to municipalities, the
remaining 70% of resources are still managed centrally by the Ministry of Agriculture which
contracts with INERF, a public agency, to execute public works projects in agriculture and
environmental protection. Yet, INERF's operations are far from being cost effective and the
infrastructure created lacks the ownership of the targeted communities. The restructuring of
FAIMO deserves the coordinated support of donors, and Government has recognized that future



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 5
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
public works programs must be based on a participatory approach and the local management of the
social/economic infrastructure. Government also recognizes that it must promote alternative forms
of social/economic advancement for the poor (particularly of poor women), appealing mainly to
private initiatives and to community solidarity. Building the capacity of municipalities to plan,
implement and monitor high impact and cost-effective poverty alleviation measures is therefore
critical to decentralize public works programs, to enhance their social/economic productivity and to
increase their ownership and sustainability. The proposed project will address these issues as
follows:
(1) Public Works and Employment Creation: To provide a viable alternative for FAIMO
workers, public works will be decentralized and based on community defined priority activities and
their execution will be placed on private sector principles using delegated contract management. A
delegated contract management agency (AGECABO) was created, drawing on the success and
lessons learnt from the existing 12 AGETIPs in SSA. FAIMO workers will be assisted to form
local small scale associations and will be provided with training in technical skills and contract
management. The public works will first be aimed at improving water, sanitation and natural
resource management, as well as social infrastructures (rehabilitation of schools, health posts etc.).
Only sub-projects between US$20,000 and $800,000 will be eligible for financing. The capacity
building of municipalities, NGOs, and small entrepreneurs through training and targeted technical
assistance will form a critical part of this component. Community activities costing less than
$20,000 can also be financed and will consist in self-help projects aimed at improving the living
conditions of the poor especially in the areas of health, hygiene, education, environment, nutrition
and food security, and to reinforce NGO capacities to work with communities, as NGOs will be
contracted to mobilize poor communities and assist them to design and implement the activities.
(2) Capacity Building: Under this component, the project will provide (a) support to the
Program Coordination Unit, under the Vice Prime Minister's Office, whose main roles are to (i)
coordinate the NPAP; (ii) liaise with donors financing poverty reduction interventions; (iii) check
eligibility of subprojects included in municipal annual programs and transmit them to an approval
comnmission; and (iv) select implementation agencies for the execution of sub-projects; (b)
financing for limited studies and surveys (mainly Beneficiary Assessments) to monitor the project
impact, thus complementing the existing poverty monitoring activities of the Government; and (c)
financial and technical audits.



Project Appraisal Document                                                      Page 6
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components: (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown)
Public Works and Employment         Caaiy16.6                  92%       15          85%94%
Creation: to finance                building/
(i) equipment and operating costs for    Physical
AGECABO;
(ii) economic and social infrastructures
costing $20,000 and above;
(iii) training of contractors in the
construction sector;
(iv) technical assistance for capacity
building of municipalities to plan,
implement and monitor projects and
account for resource use.
(v) community demand-driven small
scale social infrastructures which are
below US$20,000 and which are
implemented by communities;
(vi) training of communities, NGOs and
municipalities in participatory
approaches, micro-project preparation
and management, technical fields;
(vii) investment and recurrent costs of
the community window in AGECABO
Capacity building and Monitoring &   Capacity         1.5       8%        1.1         6%
Evaluation: to finance (i) technical  building
assistance, training to PCU; (ii)
equipment, and limited operating costs
of PCU; (iii) studies/surveys
(iv) technical and financial audits
Total      18.1     100%       16.1       100%
Total Project Costs     18.1      100%      16.1       100%
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project supports the decentralization process already started by the Government with the help
of donors. In addition, the project helps Government implement a program approach compared to
the usual project approach. The main contribution of this project is to shift from the welfare
approach to poverty which has been a trademark of Government through the FAIMO system, to a
development approach.



Project Appraisal Document                                                        Page 7
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
3. Benefits and target population:
Expected benefits include: (a) improved quality of life for the poor through better access to safe
water, basic sanitation, environment, primary schools, and health facilities; (b) increased
employment creation by small and medium scale construction companies which will be able to
participate in the sourcing of public works and large construction contracts; (c) greater efficiency
in the execution of public works..programs coupled with a greater development imnpact of such
works; (d) strengthened private sector capacity to manage contracts; (e) increased employment and
income for poor women through self-employment in micro-enterprises, (f) decentralization of most
targeted poverty alleviation activities to the municipalities by ensuring a demand driven approach,
and systematic community participation; this will enhance the sustainability of economic and social
investments; (g) the capacity building of municipalities and participating NGOs in planning,
monitoring, and financial accounting should bring about a more rational and efficient approach to
social sector investments; and (h) the establishment of a national focal point (the NPAP's PCU) to
coordinate, monitor, and evaluate all government and donor assisted poverty alleviation programs.
The project is targeted at the 30% of the population living below the poverty line (117,000
people), with particular attention to poor women. Project-funded activities will be targeted
according to economic strata, i.e. the poorest communities (poverty pockets) of the 17
municipalities, according to season (focus on June-August, when needs of the poor are the
greatest). The poverty pockets have been identified by each municipality. The project would be
part of the Program of Targeted Interventions.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The alternative which has been rejected is to entrust the execution of the Poverty Program to a
public sector agency; instead, it was decided to select a semi-private sector approach through the
creation of AGECABO, and execution by this and other delegated contract management agencies.
The reason for this choice is the weak absorptive and implementation capacity of the Central
Government. Up to now, Government has dealt with poverty as a welfare issue, which is not
sustainable. For this reason, Government asked the Bank's help to devise a private sector approach
through the system of delegated contract management. Another reason is that public sector
management capacity, in spite of great progress in the last three years, is still weak at the central
level. However, the decentralization policy, started six years ago, has permitted certain
municipalities to build a minimum of technical capacities. This process has been assisted through
the ongoing IDA financed Public Sector Reform and Capacity Building Project. The delegated
contract management system will help in the decentralization process by ensuring transparency in
terms of procurement, by insisting on results in order for contracts to be paid, by standardizing
procedures, and by improving efficiency and providing quick disbursing quality work.
Another alternative studied was whether or not to invest in micro-credit schemes. A review of
existing 10 schemes revealed that it is possible to improve their efficiency and effectiveness for
better coverage of the poor population. Other donors (AfDB in particular) are going to finance the
necessary technical assistance and training to achieve this goal. Once this goal is reached, grants
from donor organizations are expected to flow into the improved micro-credit schemes of Cape
Verde.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                          Page 8
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
A specific investment loan rather than a SIP was designed for two reasons: (I) poverty, unlike other
more defined sectors, touches inter-sectoral issues which donors already finance; (ii) the NPAP is
only a first step by Government to take leadership in a program approach.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 9
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies:
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" .N. . ....
I mplementation    Development
Progress (IP)       Objective
Bank-financed                Public Sector Reform &    S                        s
Capacity Building Project
(Cr. 2566)
Basic Education & Training   S                  S
(Cr. 2675)
Capacity Building for Private  HS               HS
sector Promotion (Cr. 2864)
1Water and Energy (planned)
Other development agencies
GTZ, WFP                     Agriculture; Employment
Generation; School Lunch
UNFPA                        Family Planning Services
Austria                      Targeted interventions
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly
Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The Bank's lessons from establishing twelve AGETIPS in SSA namely "Target public spending
toward interventions serving the poor" and on improving equity were used for the design of this
program. The proposed program also drew lessons from the mid-term evaluation of the
implementation of the Third National Development Plan 1992-95, published in January 1995
which emphasized the need to (i) promote private sector-led sustainable growth per capita; (ii)
develop a sound employment promotion policy and strengthen safety nets; (iii) improve human
capital and productivity of the poor; and (iv) improve monitoring of poverty reduction efforts and
better targeting of the poor. These lessons are reflected primarily by the careful targeting of
beneficiaries and of activities, and in the choice of creating a delegated contract management
agency to promote employment.
In addition, the satisfactory record of Cape Verde in implementing Bank-financed projects permits
us to anticipate that the Social Sector Development Project will also be executed satisfactorily.
Indeed, Cape Verde's IDA portfolio has been the best in Sub-Saharant Africa for the past four
years.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Government's conmmitment is expressed in the National Development Plan which includes the
NPAP, and which mentions willingness to restructure the FAIMOs. It took a long time for project
preparation to start, due in great part to changes in preparation team and to the fact that the NPAP,
which was elaborated during project preparation, provides a program approach rather than a more
traditional project approach. Government presented the NPAP to a Donors' Round Table in Sal



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 10
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
in November 1997. Municipalities and the Association of Mayors are taking a very active role in
project preparation. Ten Municipal level Poverty Alleviation Programs were developed in a very
concerted way with municipalities. Development of such programs for the remaining municipalities
is underway. During project preparation, the AGECABO was created, a D.G. recruited, and key
positions were shortlisted before negotiations. The "owners" of the NPAP can be said to be the
municipalities and local communities where elected officials have been actively preparing the
NPAP, along with NGOs. Direct beneficiaries have been consulted throughout project preparation
as participants in the "restitution" workshops held in each municipality where a Municipal Poverty
Alleviation Program was designed.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Government requested the Bank's technical advice in designing the NPAP. Joint missions with
other major donors (UNDP, IFAD, AfDB), led by the Bank, provided support to the sectoral
approach chosen by Government, and these multi-donor missions worked in complete partnership
with Government providing it with necessary technical inputs. The Bank thus serves as a catalyst
for other donors to join in, and as a guarantee for quality and transparency of the process. The
Bank's experience with AGETIPs and Social Funds is also regarded as a major contribution by
donors and Government.
E: Summary Project Analysis: (detailed assessments are in the project file, see
Annex 8)
1. Economic: (supported by Annex 4)
[x] Cost-Benefit Analysis; [x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis
The Social Sector Development Project will support a variety of subprojects. A cost-benefit or cost
effectiveness methodologies will be used to screen proposal from an economic perspective. But for
most of the subprojects, 60% of the portfolio, cost-effectiveness analysis will be used. Because
these subprojects would not have an easily quantified revenue and the benefits will be measured in
non monetary units, such as number of beneficiaries; the approach will use a maximum unit cost
per beneficiary criteria, labor content and community contribution. These norms will be reviewed
annually to incorporate experience gained in implemented sub-projects. A matrix summarizing the
type of appropriate analysis to undertake is in annex 4 and an outline of subproject justification
including the set of selection criteria; such forms are part of AGECABO manual of procedures for
project selection. For project under US$20,000 no analysis is recommended; only a justification
report will be applied along with the proposed outline.
2. Financial: (see Annex 5)
During the implementation period IDA funds will play a major role in financing initial investment.
Once implementation is complete, beneficiaries (municipalities, and Community organizations) will
be primary source of funds for operation and maintenance. Most revenue generation will be in the
form of user charges for Community facilities.
The Investment plan and sources of finance are shown in Annex 5. The contribution of the
Government and the beneficiaries is at a minimum level of around 10% of the total cost excluding
interest payments or about US$ 2.05 million equivalent.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 11
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
The AGECABO and other similar executing agencies will charge a maximum of 10% overhead for
public works; Other AGETIPS in Africa charge between 5 to 10% also, and have shown that the
total costs are usually lower than those for similar works done without the delegated contract
management system.
Fiscal impact: The estimated fiscal impact of the project over the next eight years is US$ 2.7
million in the case where the Government is in charge of the total Municipalities contributions
(US$ 0.5 million of counterpart funds, plus US$ 0.5 million of interest and US$ 1.7million of
operating costs); corresponding to an average rate of 0.001% of the Goveniment expenditure a
year. If Municipalities and beneficiaries support their contribution the fiscal impact for the
Government will be reduce to US$ 1.0 million including interest payments and 15 % of
Municipalities contribution subsidized by the Government through the "Fonds d'Appui aux
Municipalites".
3. Technical:
The project will introduce the concept of delegated contract management in the country. This will
increase the implementation capacity of .nunicipalities and help redefine their roles. Sustainability
of works done will be ensured by the participation of the communities in the selection of the
activities to be financed and in their execution. Operation and Maintenance of works by
communities and municipalities who request the works will be a condition of selection of the
works.
The project will foster small enterprises, thereby building capacity; it will strengthen NGOs in their
roles as community development catalysts, and it will strengthen existing training institutions in
their capacity to train different levels of government and civil society in implementing their own
activities in an efficient manner.
The program approach will help the Central Government better coordinate aid and targeted
activities.
The very strong focus on impact at the local level will strengthen the capacity of all actors in
monitoring and evaluation.
4. Institutional:
The implementation arrangements for the project are based on similar operations financed by IDA
in Africa where public works are executed through the contracting out approach, by using a
Delegated Contract Management Agency (DCMA). This model has been adapted to the Cape
Verde situation to ensure it functions effectively. The main difference in Cape Verde is the creation
of the PCU in the Office of the Vice-Prime Minister. The PCU will be responsible for
programming activities, monitoring their implementation and supervising the DCMAs. The
existence of the PCU is consistent with the implementation arrangements of other IDA financed
projects in Cape Verde, such as the Capacity Building Project for Private Sector Promotion (Cr.
nbr. 2864) which delegates parts of implementation to PROMEX.
a Executing agencies: All IDA-financed civil work contracts will be managed by DCMAs to be
selected yearly, in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of
Consultant. It would be addressed through competition among qualified short-listed firms and
NGOs in which the selection would be based on Quality and Cost (QCBS). The DCMAs, to be
selected, will need to fulfill certain eligibility criteria and be submitted to an institutional
assessment. The selection of DCMAs acceptable to the Bank is a condition of effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Page 12
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
AGECABO's Procedures Manual will be cleared by IDA and will be used by the selected
DCMAs.
b. Project management: The program coordination unit (PCU) in the office of the Vice-Prime
Minister will ensure the support for implementation by DCMAs, and will manage the Monitoring
and Evaluation component. This unit was created by Government Resolution 40-B/98 (Official
Gazette, No. 32, August 27, 1998) to design, coordinate, monitor and ensure the execution of the
NPAP. It is headed by a program coordinator chosen by the Vice-Prime Minister and approved by
IDA, and it is financed by the Treasury and IDA. It is to remain a light unit. A yearly plan of
action will be established, with an estimated budget and indicators. The annual review, to be
carried out every year, in September, will assess project progress. All progress reports and plans of
actions will show not only the IDA Credit, but also the contribution by all parties involved in the
execution of the NPAP. The accounting system will be selected accordingly. The PCU will liaise
with the National Commission for Poverty Alleviation, with the Secretary of State for Poverty
Alleviation, and with the different executing agencies
(see Annex 2).
5. Social: This project targets the 30% of the population considered "poor", as opposed to the 14%
"extremely poor" aided through humanitarian and charitable organizations. In each municipal
poverty alleviation program, poverty pockets were identified along with the percentage and
number of poor. During the first year of project implementation, the project will finance activities
in the poverty pockets of the ten municipalities which have completed the design of their poverty
alleviation program. In the following years, the project will finance activities in all municipalities.
6. Environmental assessment:   Environmental Category    []   A  [x]   B []   C
The sub-projects of components 1 and 2 will be systematically assessed according to the
recommended environmental assessments (Environmental Guidelines for Social Funds, World
Bank, October 1998) which were designed specifically for sub-projects implemented by delegated
contract management agencies and social action-funds. This methodology is taken into account in
the Manual of Procedures which includes an environmental analysis evaluation grid to be filled for
each sub-project. If the sub-project needs further analysis, this will be undertaken by local
contractors, and any mitigating measures can be executed by contractors or municipalities, when
they have the resources. The project will finance some of the activities identified in the National
Program to fight Desertification, which was adopted by Government in April 1998.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Comnmunities are directly involved in the choice of sub-projects through two means: (i) for
activities to be financed by the employment generation window, communities are represented at the
municipal level in the "Partners' Commission" where the annual work program is decided; (ii) for
activities to be financed by the Community Window, they themselves identify, design and
implement the sub-projects.
b. Other key stakeholders:
Municipalities are important stakeholders, and many have been designing their own poverty
alleviation programs during project preparation. They have held town meetings once their program



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 13
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
was designed to let everybody know about what will be done, why, and how. During
implementation, municipal Partners Commissions will approve the sub-projects submitted by
communities and will also continue to design their poverty alleviation programs. Municipalities
will be important clients of Delegated Contract Management Agencies.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of the NPAP will be helped considerably by the program approach and the close
coordination envisaged among the key donors. Other factors which will help are: (a) ability of
Government to accept to redefine its role and provide continuous support to the municipalities; (b)
use of beneficiary assessments for yearly reprogramming; (c) transparency in allocation and
management of resources; (d) financing from the Diaspora; and (e) financing of operations and
maintenance by communities and municipalities.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Page 14
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
2. Critical Risks: (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1)
7U                                                                     E
From Outputs to Objective:
AGECABO will not develop into an effective      M        Technical assistance will be
and efficient agency and no other DCMA is                provided by the AGETIP network to
available                                                AGECABO
Sufficient and effective coordination of the    M       Training and TA will be provided to
various donors will not be maintained                   the Central Government . A
consolidated accounting system will
be put in place to monitor all donor
inputs and program's outputs. A
yearly program review with major
donors will be undertaken.
Adequate cash flow will not be made available   M        IDA will serve as lender of last
by donors and Government to support program             resort and annual reviews of the
activities.                                              program will be undertaken jointly
with major donors.
Implementation of FAIMOs reform might be        S        Information campaigns and
delayed                                                  stakeholder participation
From Components to Outputs:
Different Govt. agencies and other partners will  M      Agencies and partners will provide
not be willing to share information.                    full access to their information to
encourage participation.
In a sometimes difficult climate of collaboration  M     A participatory process will aim
between the party in power and the opposition,           at creating demand for effective
there may well be unwillingness to devolve               devolution
responsibility to municipalities, particularly
where the latter are controlled by the
opposition..
Some municipalities who have built up large     M        This will be mitigated by an
teams of technical expertise might be unwilling         intensive sensitization effort
to delegate certain responsibilities to outside          throughout the project to show
agencies.                                               results and the advantages of
shifting municipal resources to
other tasks than those that can be
done by the private sector.
Overall Risk Rating                             M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The poor population has become quite dependent on the FAIMO system. Breaking this dependency
could provoke social and/or political problems. This should be mitigated through participatory
processes whereby the concerned parties will participate in the design of alternatives.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 15
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  The Borrower has selected at least one Project Implementation Agency, satisfactory to the
Association, to carry out Parts A. 1 and A.4 of the Project during the first year of
implementation of the Project and has entered into a Convention, in form and substance
satisfactory to the Association, with such Project Implementation Agency;
*  the Borrower has adopted the PIP, in formn and substance satisfactory to the Association;
*  the Borrower has established a computerized accounting and financial management system in
the PCU, satisfactory to the Association;
*  the Borrower has appointed the iidependent auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3
to that Agreement;
* the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of
the Development Credit Agreement has been deposited therein; and
e  the PCU has been established in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule
4 to the Development Credit Agreement.
2. Negotiation Conditions:
The following conditions were met for negotiations:
= Finalized Convention between Government and AGECABO;
- Manuals of Procedures and Project Implementation Plan, including (i) first version of the
NPAP implementation procedures; (ii) first version of the PCU's Administrative and
Accounting Manual; (iii) final version of AGECABO's implementation manual for sub-
projects; (iv) final version of AGECABO's administrative and accounting manual;
* Short-list of candidates for AGECABO's Technical and Financial/Administrative Directors
* Procurement Plan;
* Selection of a firm to install the PCU's and AGECABO's computerized financial management
system;
* Procurement documents showing the procedures have started to hire a financial auditor and a
technical auditor;
* The list of works for Year 1;
* The final strategy for social mobilization;
* The final version of the "enterprises perfectionnement" to be carried out by AGECABO.
H: Readiness for Implementation
[] 1. The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
[] 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                       Page 16
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
[x] 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
[x] 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
* Convention between Government and DCMA(s) signed, and contract for one year of execution
between DCMA(s) and Government signed
* Finalized Manuals of Procedures.
1: Compliance with Bank Policies
[x] 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]   2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
>FTeam Leader: Tonia Marek  0f-
ctor Manager:  icho s Burnett
funtry Director: Mahmood A. Ayuy



Project Appraisal Document
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 1: Project Design Summary
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
Sector-related CAS Goal:            Sector Indicators:
Promote sustainable poverty reduction  a) % ofpoor in total population      a) 30%           a)29%      a) 28%      a) 27%      a) baseline: 1988 household survey and   Government will
May 1999 pop. census mapping         continue to emphasize
update: 2001 household survey and   poverty reduction as a
2002/03/04 light quantitative surveys  key policy objective
b) NPAP monitored once a year jointly with   b) arnual review   b) idem  b) idem  b) idem   b) IDA supervision reports
all donors involved and with a common   with common                                           and UCP reports
program and budget                      budget
Project Development Objectives:     Outcome / Impact Indicators:                                                                Project Reports:                      Both municipal teams
and teams at the central
a) assist in the reconversion of FAIMO  a) # of person /month of FAIMO workers  a) 2,000     a) 7,000    a)7,000    a)4,500     a) AGECABO reports and 2              level will need to have
workers through the execution of needed   employed (in person/month and by gender)                                              Enterprises surveys (year 2 and year 4)    the managerial and
labor-intensive public works.                                                                                                                                        technical capacity to
bl)# of operatingMunicipal Commissions    bl) 10        bl) 12      bl) 14      bl) 17      bl) UCP reports                      implementtheprogram
b) build capacity at the municipal and  of Partners                                                                                                                   AGECABO will develop
central levels to implemnent targeted  b2) % of implementation of sub-projects  b2) 80%      b2) 80%    b2)80%      b2)80%      b2) UCP reports                      into an effective and
poverty alleviation activities      eligible to AGECABO financing in                                                                                                  efficient agency.
municipal annual programs                                                                                                        Sufficient and effective
b3) availability of annual reports on donors   b3) I    b3) 1       b3) I       b3) I       b3) UCP reports                      coordination of the
poverty reduction activities, including                                                                                          various donors is
budgets.                                                                                                                         maintained
(D (D
F-h
N')



Project Appraisal Document
Country: Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S~~~~~~~~~~*&.'A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                ...........V ............t~
Output from each component:          Output Indicators:                        Year I           Year 2      Year 3       Year 4      Project Reports:                      A good monitoring and
evaluation system is put
a) Improved quality of life for the poor.   al) # of direct beneficiaries of sub-projects    al) 25, 000  al)75,000   al)75,000   al)  al) AGECABO reports                 in place and maintained.
a2) % of pop. with access to health,     a2) TBD          a2) TBD      a2) TBD     50,000      a2) baseline: Population census
% of pop. with access education                                                 a2) TBD     mapping (May 1999) -                   Different Government
% of pop. with access to water and                                                          update: 2001 Household survey and      agencies and other
sanitation                                                                                municipal data.                        partners will be willing
% of pop. with access to community                                                                                                to share information.
centers
a3) % of new infrastructures correctly   a3) 80%          a3) 80%      a3) 80%                 a3) Annual technical audits.
operated and maintained                                                       a3) 80%
a4) improvement (before and after sub-   a4) TBD          a4) TBD      a4) TBD                 a4) AGECABO (Comnusnity window)
project) of local indicators for social                                       a4) TBD     reports
services (hygiene, nutnition etc.)
a5) satisfaction of population in poverty  a5) 60%        a5) 70%      a5) 70%                 a5) Annual Beneficiary assessments
pockets and of beneficiary municipalities                                          a5) 70%
b) Increased employment creation     b I) number of person/month of employment   bh) 12,000     bl)35,000   bl)35,000                bl) AGECABO reports
created                                                                            bl)22,000
c) AGECABO is a competitive contract   c) AGECABO operating costs below 10%    c) 10%           c) 10%      c) 10%                   cl) Annual audits reports and
management agency                                                                                                       c) 10%       AGECABO reports
Project Components                   Inputs: (budget for each                  Project Reports:
component)
I.Public works and employment creation
2. Capacity building.                                                          CMA progress report.
1. US$16.6                               CPU 3 monthly progress reports
2. US$ 1.5
(IQ
o
H-



Project Appraisal Document                                                   Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                        Page 1 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 2  Project Description
Republic of Cape Verde  Social Sector Development Project
The project will finance parts of the NPAP which is estimated to cost around $75 millions over five
years. Other sources are being sought to finance the rest of the NPAP.
Project Management
Overall project responsibility lies with the Program Coordination Unit (PCU) which was created in
August 1998 for the implementation of the NPAP. The PCU reports to the Office of the Vice-
Prime Minister. The PCU's role includes the following activities:
a) coordinate the NPAP, including reviewing the list of proposed sub-projects and
transmitting to the Government (Program Approval Commission) and liaising with the
delegated contract management agencies (AGECABO, NGOs, Municipalities)
b) manage IDA project special account;
c) prepare quarterly and annual reports on the status of implementation of the NPAP
d) ensure adequate consultation with all the bilateral and multilateral partners of the NPAP;
e) coordinate with the central administration involved in poverty activities. In particular,
liaise with the Secretariat of State for Poverty Alleviation, including the Poverty
Observatory and the Social mobilization Unit.
T'he PCU will approve the annual rolling indicative work program and any changes introduced in
it. The Office of the Vice-Prime Minister will approve the PCU's budget based on the work
program, and IDA's approval will be sought. The PCU will meet at least every quarter with every
delegated contract management agency to assess progress. The PCU will be lightly staffed (see
below), relying mainly on consultants for most of its technical work.
The PCU will be guided by the Project Implementation Plan which has to be approved both by
IDA and the Government. The Project Implementation Plan will be consistent with the Manual of
Procedures used by AGECABO and those for other Delegated Contract Management Agencies.
Any deviation from the Project Implementation Plan and AGECABO Manual will have to be
cleared by the PCU and by IDA.
The PCU will be staffed by seven key staff (the Program Coordinator, his deputy, one technician,
one procurement specialist, an accountant, an accounting-clerk, an administrative assistant, and
support staff) Part of the PCU staff and of operating costs will be financed by the project.
Project Component 1 - US$16.6 million (with contingencies)
Public Works and Employment Creation:
Description: This component will finance a decentralized program of labor-intensive civil works
which will provide a viable alternative to the FAIMO system. This program will be based on
community-defined priorities and will be executed by the private sector through delegated contract
management. An AGETIP-like structure (AGECABO) has been created, drawing on the success
and lessons learnt from the existing 12 AGETIPs in SSA. AGECABO will receive from
municipalities the authority to manage contracts for the implementation of economic and social



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                         Page 2 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
infrastructure sub-projects (markets, small roads, rehabilitation of schools, health posts, etc.)
aiming at improving the poor living conditions. AGECABO will contract out technical studies,
works, and works supervision.
In addition to the use of AGECABO, the Govemrnent decided to open the market to other agencies
that might be able to undertake delegated contract management in the same way AGECABO will.
Thus, a set of criteria has been designed and a public advertisement will solicit other such agencies.
This concerns municipal and inter-municipal technical offices which have been developing their
capacities in contract management, design and works supervision. Currently, these capacities are
limited. This concerns also some large NGOs which candidate as contract management agencies
mainly in fields not related to construction.
Execution mechanisms:
Sub-project Identification:
=> Municipal levels (Municipalities with NGOs and communities) elaborate their annual
plan of action with priority works, and prepare for each priority work a "project form"
along with the supporting documents showing that this project is eligible.
=  Municipal Partners Committees select projects, validate the municipal program, and
transmit proposed subprojects to PCU which checks eligibility of sub-projects and
select a MOD through an transparent competitive process.
- PCU submit the consolidated annual or bi-annual programs and proposed MODs to
the Program Approval Commission for approval.
> PCU will notify Municipalities, Municipal Partners Committees, AGECABO and
other MODs the list of project approved and the agreement on MOD proposed.
> AGECABO and the interested municipalities sign a "convention de maitrise
d 'ouvrage deleguee". AGECABO will start studies and works only after receiving the
beneficiary financial contribution as specified in the convention.
Sub-project execution:
=> AGECABO or another DCMA, recruits, by open bid, the necessary architects and
consultants to elaborate the technical dossier, unless this work has already been done
by the municipality.
=> AGECABO or another DCMA, publishes an invitation to bid for the execution of the
works
=> works are executed by private small entrepreneurs; AGECABO inspects the works
regularly and pays rapidly according to the percent of works done.
=> AGECABO or another DCMA, receives the completed works and hands them to the
Municipality.
> Other MODs will proceed in a similar way, except that a Municipal technical Office
does not need a contract to manage a project of its own municipality.
=> the Municipality has included all Operation and Maintenance costs in its annual
budget.
> Any Ministry can also ask AGECABO to execute works through a "Contrat
Programme".



Project Appraisal Document                                                         Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                              Page 3 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
=> Manuals of procedures for AGECABO and other MODs give all the details for
eligibility and selection of sub-projects and target groups.
These mechanisms are summarized in the charts 1 and 2 below.
Training
=> AGECABO will also ensure that proper training of small entrepreneurs is carried out
through local training institutions or firms. The training program will be established
yearly, based on the needs for works expressed through Municipalities. The objective
of the training program is to improve productivity, stimulate initiatives to create small
enterprises and to increase the possibilities of self-employment and of access to
employment, and to ensure proper operation and maintenance of works. Although the
training is part of the "Capacity building component, it will be managed by
AGECABO. The first year training program is in Annex 10.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                                                     Page 4 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
CHART 1: Identification and Approval of subprojects
Social                 eteSecret                                                                         pproves      r evey
mobilization           or  ove-y               - -GRAM  APPROVAL                                        Imonths/ 1 year
subprojects               -at    --           : i it;0::0
.                               EEi R   .i E i   i E LRER........iELE iEi ... :. iE . E. .iL.E ... ER.-E iLiR. .... EERiEE .. #E 7i .E pEi.   . . . . . . . .      .  iC
I nformons on1
of subproiects   , ,    ~        ~        sbprjet
approvallrefusal
MUNICIPA]   O ( IRD~NAION UNIT!          alidates the
rrome  coordlnatrleoonnleve ec s
...-EERERER-EEE  LiE . ..L .   ......   ..RLEDR-i Ei...iLL.. . .E
iE---    .  iR. ..  !krE .... !E !i .E ..  ,... E  ....g,   ....... ..! .   .....
GOs            ~~~ommunities
_ _t      ti subproject
kapprovaVrefilsal~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                . .. ietfcto
-O...-.. M.  NIdentify or
participe in the
identification
(1) The Program Approval Commission includes representatives of the Vice Prime Mimister Office, State Secretary for
Poverty Reduction, PCU, Ministry of Finances, Institute for Employment and Vocational Training
(2) La Municipal Partners Commission includes between 6 and 9 members from NGOs, local associations, municipality,
and decentralized governuental services.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                                      Page 5 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
CHART 2: Subproject Implementation
/mobilization
/ subproects
State Secretary                               GOVERNMENT
for Poverty -_--_-
Alleviation:
Convention                                        Convention cadre
-           Program Coordination
Unit (PM                             __                        _
Selection of MOD, supervision and
evaluation of subprojects implemented
by first-level NGOs
Approval of annual /
Approval of         Proram/Coordinati          contract
annual program      on/contract
-AGECABO             contract    MUNICIPALITY                     First level NGOs
contract/
communitv   utilisation des
, i1d t    j etudes
() -existantes
GTI
IG,   ._.,_-_     I
2  i;;1    1consultants/ |2 levele    | Entreprises 2-d level      2( lee    |micro- 
other.tis       enepri    NG:- -                       NGO       :     NO          ente      -
OMMUN`IITIE
(1) IDA financing of this window will be appraised at the end of AGECABO's first year of implementation.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                          Page 6 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
Activities to finance:
*  Sub-Projects: activities that can demonstrate a positive impact on household food security,
hygiene, health, nutrition, environment, or education will be financed in the following areas:
- economic projects such as small roads, bridges, drainage systems, water collection;
- social projects such as schools, health posts, basic sanitation, water distribution;
- small income generating projects such as markets;
No individual project can be financed (such as individual hook-ups to the water distribution
system, or individual latrines, for example).
*  The investment and recurrent costs of setting up AGECABO will be financed by the project for
year 1. AGECABO should, by the end of year one, be able to run with a maximum of 10%
operating costs. During year one, the project will finance AGECABO's operating costs, but
starting in year two, these costs should be covered by the fees AGECABO will charge for
executing works, and will thus be included in consultant services. Since it is estimated that the
recurrent costs of AGECABO are around $350,000/year, a minimum of $3.5 million works
are necessary yearly to be executed by AGECABO. Supervision costs of each sub-project are
to be included in the sub-project's budget.
*  Training of small entrepreneurs, FAIMO workers and other target groups to improve their
technical and entrepreneurial skills. Municipality workers and NGOs will also receive training
in contract management and on the delegated contract management system.
*  Promotion and information to poor communities, municipalities and other target audiences.
The social mobilization program to be financed by Government and donors will be managed by the
State Secretary for Poverty Alleviation, it includes the following activities (i) where needed,
helping communities to organize as legal entities (associations); and (ii) disseminating the
information about the availability of funds, eligibility criteria for sub-projects, and submission and
approval process. The mobilization program would be carried out by local NGOs and municipal
field workers (see organizational chart below). These activities would be targeted to poverty
pockets. The IDA credit would finance social mobilization training for NGOs and local
associations who are partners of AGECABO.
Project Component 2 - US$1.5 million (with contingencies)
Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation:
Description:
This component will finance training of PCU members and part of PCU operating costs. It will
also finance limited NGO training (US$100.000) for the implementation of component 1. The PCU
will have the following reporting responsibilities: Every three months the PCU will prepare a
progress report containing technical and financial information. The indicators to be monitored will
be shown in tables and in graphic form. The PCU will maintain a monthly "tableau de bord" on
these indicators. Operations research will be undertaken when specific problems have been



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 2
Country: Cape Verde                                                          Page 7 of 7
Social Sector Development Project
identified, the Terms of Reference of these operations research will need to be approved by IDA.
At year two and four, an impact evaluation will be undertaken on the target population.
To monitor progress in poverty alleviation, the existing poverty monitoring program at central and
municipal levels will be used. This program includes:
*  at the central level (National Institute of Statistics): The May 1999 Population census
mapping, the 2001 household survey, light quantitative surveys in 2002/03/04 ; and
* poverty data collected at the municipal levels.
In addition the project will finance annual beneficiary assessments to receive constant community
feedback.
A yearly evaluation of progress and impact will be done to ensure the project and the program are
on the right track and to introduce any necessary modifications. This yearly evaluation will focus
on the impact of activities on poverty, the strengthening of institutional capacities at the central and
municipal levels, and the participation of target groups.
A "Poverty Observatory", financed by other donors, is being established under the Secretariat of
State for Poverty Alleviation to monitor the overall NPAP impact. The exact mandate for the
Observatory is currently being defined.
Execution Mechanisms:
The PCU will design a yearly plan of action to be approved by IDA. The PCU will
monitor progress of the project and facilitate planning and execution by other Agencies.
Activities to finance:
*  Investment and recurrent costs of the PCU,
*  technical assistance, training to PCU,
*  equipment, and limited operating costs of PCU,
*  studies/surveys,
*  technical and financial audits.



Project Appraisal Document                                                          Annex 3
Country: Cape Verde                                                                Page 1 of 1
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
(Costs without contingencies)
a) Public Works and Employment Creation:                        8.6             7.0            15.0
- Public work;s:
- Convention with AGECABO:
.Recurrent expenditures (Year 1)
.Percent of works
- Training for public works, delegated contract management;
consultancies; audits; studies
- Operational costs
- PPF
b) Social Sector Capacitv Building.                             1.0             0.4              1.4
- Goods
- Consultants, training, audits
- Monitoring & Evaluation; Operational costs
Total                                                        9.6             7.4            17
Total Baseline Cost
Physical Contingencies                                       0.4             0.4             0.8
Price Contingencies                                          0.2             0.1             0.3
Total Project Costs                     10.2             7.9             18.1
Total Financing Required by IDA          8.9             7.2             16.1
Subprojects                                                     6.5             6.4            12.9
Goods                                                           0               0.1             0.1
Consultants                                                     1.7             0.6             2.3
Training                                                        0.3             0.2             0.5
Operational costs                                               0.4             0.0             0.4
PPF                                                             0.7             0.2             0.9
Contingencies                                                   0.6             0.5             1.1
Total Project Costs                     10.2             7.9             18.1



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 4
Country: Cape Verde                                                           Page 1 of 3
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 4: ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF SUBPROJECTS
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
1- This annex summarizes the methodology that will be used to undertake the economic analysis
of subprojects to be financed under the Social Sector Development Projects.
2- Essentially two sets of factors determine the type of the analysis applied; the type of project
and its size.
. For those projects whose benefits are measurable in monetary terms and whose output
has a market price that is relatively easy to assess, cost benefit analysis will be applied.
This will apply to income-generating commercial infrastructure projects (markets,
abattoirs,...). In such cases, the standard "with" and "without" project comparisons will be
used to measure the incremental economic benefits arising from the project. At the other
extreme, there may be project (for example in health and education sectors) whose benefits
either do not have a readily accessible market price or are not easily measurable in
monetary terms. In such cases, cost effectiveness analysis will be used, with the benefits
being measured in non monetary units, such as number of beneficiaries.
. While the above analysis is unquestionably useful, it entails the gathering and analysis of
significant amount of data. For small municipal or community projects, the time and effort
involved may be prohibitive and could result in excessive delays. Therefore, for smaller
projects a more simplified approach would be used.
3- Based on the above two factors, the following approach will be used, summarized in that
matrix:
TYPE OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS ACCORDING TO CATEGORY AND AMOUNT
COST                          ECONOMIC               SOCIAL            INCOME
OF SUB-                    INFRASTRUCTURE   PROJECTS    GENERATION
PROJET                              (1)                  (2)          PROJECTS (3)
< US$ 20,000                  Justification           Justification     Summary
Justification +
profitability
Between 20,000 et             Justification + simplified  Justification +  Summary
60,000                        costlbenefit            sectoral criteria,   Justification +
cost/effectiveness  profitability
and Cost/per
beneficiary
Between US$                    Economic rate of return  Justification+  Detailed financial
60,000 et 180,000                                     sectoral criteria    profitability
and/or cost/benef
> US$ 180,000                 Detailed and            Detailed and      Detailed and
comprehensive analysis   comprehensive    comprehensive
analysis          analysis



Project Appraisal Document                                                                   Annex 4
Country: Cape Verde                                                                        Page 2 of 3
Social Sector Development Project
For all large-scale projects, i.e whose costs exceed US$180,000 or Escudos 16,2 million,
a complete economic rate of return or cost effectiveness analysis would be undertaken.
For the remaining projects, the degree of detail of the analysis would depend on the size
(with no analysis recommended for projects under US $ 20,000 or Escudos 1,800 million)
and the nature of the project (social sector, infrastructure or commercial).
To help the process, an outline for the project justification and economnic and financial
criteria for different types of projects are shown below.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Annex 4
Country: Cape Verde                                                                   Page 3 of 3
Social Sector Development Project
Type of Project Brief
1.    Project Name          Specific name of the operation.
Indicate the code of the project (subprogram and component).
2.    Site                  Indicate if access to the site is difficult.
3.    Duration              Estimated duration of work and studies (in the event those are not
available).
4.    Description           Technical description and list of works and their principal components
with corresponding quantities (total surface to be built, number and use of
beds. in a medical building, width and length of roads, length of tubes,
number of small individual jobs).
5.    Preparation           Indicate if the site is available. Indicate if engineering studies are
available.
6.    Recipients            Municipality of... and/or community of..
Description and estimate of direct or indirect beneficiaries.
7.    Justification         Description of current situation and its problems.
Description of the expected results.
If it is an economic project: indicate the economic rate of return (to be
calculated later on in the event of pilot project); or social project: indicate
the social sectoral justification (school map for example), or income
generation activity (markets): the rate of financial profitability. In all
cases, calculate the cost by direct beneficiary.
8.    Cost                  Estimated cost of works.
9.    Employment            Ratio total salaries/total cost
Nbr. Of workstations during. months
Men/month during construction
Permanent jobs (if existing).
10.   Environment            Brief description of impact on the environment and possibly on public
health
11.    Gestion               Description of planned management system.
Description of management for a community or a private manager.
12.   Participation          Description of implemented participative process with the community
during identification and definition of project.



Project Appraisal Document                                              Annex 5
Country: Cape Verde                                                   Page 1 of 2
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
Years Ending August 31
FISCAL IMPACT
80% of the investment are comprised of income generation, economic infrastructure,
education and health subprojects of which the Govermment or municipalities will apply
costs recovery /user charge. Project selection will be based on a set of criteria that cover
operating and maintenance expenditures of infrastructures. Beneficiaries and municipalities
will participate in the project implementation and its operation.
The following table presents the investment plan for the next 4 years. Government and
beneficiaries contribution will be around 10% of the investment cost. However, the
upcoming application of VAT will increase this amount by approximately 20%. The local
contribution will be US$2.05 million equivalent of which US$1.56 represent the
municipalities and beneficiaries contribution.
IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
Project Costs              2000      2001      2002       2003      Total
(in US$ millions)
Total Financing Required      3.753     5.006     5.14      4.415    18.188
Investment Costs           3.529     4.884     4.928     4.317    17.658
Recurrent Costs            0.224     0.122     0.087     0.098     0.531
Financing Source           2000      2001      2002       2003       Total
IDA                        3.3      4.5        4.4       3.9      16.1
(88%)    (90G/%)    (88%)     (89%)    (89%)
Government
Central                  0.25     0.10       0.2       0.15      0.63
(7%/6)    (2%)      (4%/6)    (3 %/6)    (3 %/.)
Municipal                0.2      0.4        0.4       0.35      1.38
(5%1.)    (80%)     (80%)     (80%)     (8 %)
Beneficiaries
Total Project Financing    3.75     5.0        5.0       4.4      18.1
OPERATIONAL PERIOD
Project Costs                2004      2005      2006      2007      Total
Investment Costs           0        0          0         0         0
Recurrent Costs            0.041    0.041      0.041     0.041     0.164
Interests                     0.117     0.117     0.117      0.117    0.468
Total Project Costs           0.158     0.158     0.158      0.158    0.632



Project Appraisal Document                                               Annex 5
Country: Cape Verde                                                     Page 2 of 2
Social Sector Development Project
Financing Source             2004       2005      2006       2007      Total
IBRD/IDA                   0         0          0         0         0
Central Government        74%       74%        74%        74%       74%
Municipal Level           26%       26%        26%        26%       26%
Beneficiaries                              X
Total Project Financing  100%      100%       100%       100%      100%
Most of the project will be initiated at the municipal level or by community based
organizations which will support counterpart funds, recurrent and operating costs either
under the actual government transfers to the municipalities (the government subsidizes
municipalities through the FAM for their operating expenditures up to 6% of the
government revenue for the previous fiscal year) or by cost recovery and locally generated
revenues. The fiscal impact over the next 8 years is estimated at a maximum of US$2.7
million, provided that the Government supports the municipalities' contribution (US$0.5
million for counterpart funds, US$0.5 million for interest payment and US$1.7 million for
operating costs). As a proportion of projected annual total government expenditures, the
annual project expenditures impact will represent 0.001%.  However, based on realistic
assumptions on cost recovery of beneficiaries and other revenues generated at the
municipal level, the fiscal impact would be reduced to US$1.0 million, including interest
payments by FAM.



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                        Page 1 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
Procurement
1.   There is no Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Cape Verde, but so
far, experience shows that procurement procedures in Cape Verde do not conflict with Bank
Guidelines. No special exceptions, permits, or licenses need to be specified in the Credit
documents for International Competitive Bidding (ICB), since Cape Verde's procurement
practices allow IDA procedures to take precedence over any contrary provisions in local
regulations. Civil Works and Goods financed by IDA, or contracts financed by other donors
eventually administered by IDA, will be procured in accordance with Bank's Guidelines under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995 revised in January and August 1996, September
1997, and January 1999), and Bank Standard Bidding Documents, and Standard Evaluation
Report will be used for ICB. National Competitive Bidding (NCB) advertised locally would
be carried out in accordance with Cape Verde's procurement laws and regulations, acceptable
to IDA. They ensure economy, efficiency, transparency and broad consistency with key
objectives of the Bank Guidelines. NCB procedures provide for: (i) methods used in bid
evaluation and contract award are made known to all bidders, and not be applied arbitrary;
(ii) any bidder is given adequate response time (four weeks) for preparation and submission of
bids; (iii) bid evaluation and bidder qualification are clearly specified in bidding documents;
(iv) no preference margin is granted to domestic manufacturers; (v) eligible firms are not
precluded from participation; (vi) award will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder in
accordance with pre-deternined and transparent methods; (vii) prior to issuing the first call
for bids, draft standard bidding documents are submitted to IDA and found acceptable; and
(viii) a general procurement notice for NCB is published and update annually. Consultant
Services contracts financed by IDA will be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers (January 1997, revised
in September 1997 and January 1999). The standard Request for Proposal, as developed by
the Bank, will be used for appointment of consultants. Simplified contracts will be used for
short-term assignments, i.e. those not exceeding six months, carried out by firms or individual
consultants. During negotiations the Government submitted a General Procurement Notice for
ICB which will be issued in the Development Business Edition #S511 of May 31, 1999. The
Government was briefed and received all necessary clarification during appraisal and
negotiations about the new features of the Consultants Guidelines, in particular with regards
to advertisement and bid opening. The program elements by disbursement category, their
estimated costs and procurement methods for the first two years are summarized in Table A
'For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consulta-nt Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).
2 /Indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement, revised
cost estimates for individual contracts and the total program -- including best estimates of
allowances for contingencies, as well as revised timing of estimated procurement actions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                         Page 2 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
below. Consultant selection methods and thresholds for procurement methods and prior
review are summarized in Tables Al and B below.
Civil Works and Goods.
2.   A large volume of activities financed under the Credit (US$10.9 million), will be used
to procure Civil Works under NCB procedures.
3.   Civil Works contracts financed by IDA is estimated at US$12.9 million. It will cover
the construction and rehabilitation of small labor-intensive works under lump-sum contract
executed by enterprises managed by Delegated Contract Management Agencies (DCMAs). It
is anticipated to have no large contracts exceeding US$300,000. However, in this event it
would be subject to ICB procedures. Therefore, all civil works contracts, costing more than
US$50,000 per contract (52% in number), up to an aggregate amount of US$10.3 million (or
80% of total amount) would be procured through NCB in accordance with national
procedures. To facilitate project implementation, those procedures are summarized in the
Manual of Procedures, and have been found acceptable to IDA. Civil works contracts will be
managed by at least one DCMA. For contracts procured under NCB procedures, the DCMAs
will use open competition subject to post-qualification - verification of the technical and
financial qualification of the contractor having submitted the lowest evaluated bid.
Qualification criteria and contractors classification, as determined by the Ministry of Public
Works, will be made known to all bidders. No Bidder will be precluded from bidding, and all
responsive bids will be evaluated. Before final contract award, only the qualification of the
lowest evaluated bidder will be reviewed. In the event he does not meet qualification criteria,
the second evaluated bidder would be considered.
4.   Contracts for small works estimated to cost less than US$50,000 each, up to an
aggregate amount of US$2.6 million under part A of the Project (or 20% of total civil works
contracts representing 48% of the number of contracts), and up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.13 million under part B 1 of the Project, will be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors invited to bid by way of discounts either on unit prices or on the total price. This
procedure was agreed between the Government and IDA to complete existing national
procedures which are normally allowing direct contracting for small contracts. The procedure
is described in the Procedures Manual to be approved by IDA as a condition of credit
effectiveness. The DCMAs will maintain and update every six months a list of pre-qualified
contractors meeting qualification criteria for small works. Pre-qualification will be widely
publicized every six months in the local press, and the scope and location of works to be
completed during the next 12 months, as well as qualification criteria, will be made known to
all candidates in the advertisement. The Procedures Manual will describe the appeal
mechanism available to applicants who are rejected. Invitation to bid shall be addressed to at
least three pre-qualified contractors having expressed an interest for the geographical zone
considered at time of pre-qualification. Invitation to bid shall include - as shown in the
Procedures Manual -- a bill of quantity, reference unit prices established by an engineer or an
architect, a detailed description of the works, including location of works and basic
specifications, the required completion period, a basic form of agreement, relevant drawings,
where applicable, and a model for submission of bid. The award would be made to the
contractor with the lowest price quotation for the required work, provided he demonstrates, in



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                         Page 3 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
the case he entered into other contracts since the pre-qualification, he still have sufficient
resources to execute the contract. These small contracts supervised by the DCMAs will be
for works relating to construction or repairs undertaken for, or with, the communities. Civil
works to support community activities (totaling US$1.13 million) will follow the same
procedures.
5.   Community Sub-Projects (totaling US$1.1 million). Communities would receive support
from the project in the form of grants payable in three or four tranches upon satisfactory
completion of activities, as described in the Procedures Manual, to carry out small community sub-
projects - not exceeding US$20,000 each. Communities would enter into contractual
arrangements with the PCU which will in turn delegate the management of funds to the DCMAs.
In choosing this approach, the PCU would evaluate with the DCMAs the organizational capacity
of the recipient, and would assess cases where assistance by an NGO is required to handle
subprojects on the behalf of communities.
6.   Contracts for Goods financed by IDA (totaling US$16,600), relate to small office
equipment such as furniture and computers, managed by the PCU. Taking into account the
small amount and the fact that office equipment is available locally at economical prices, ICB
and NCB procedures would not likely to be suitable. Therefore, procurement of goods to be
purchased, costing less than US$10,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate of
US$20,000, might be procured through prudent local shopping, on the basis of quotations
obtained from at least three reputable suppliers.
7.   Consultant Services. Consulting services financed by IDA would be for: (i) contract
management services; (ii) studies, architectural design, civil work supervision, preparation of
bidding documents, accounting systems, financial management supports, financial and
technical audits; and (iii) consultancies on technical matters and training -- skills gap analysis,
skills development; and training of staff, communities, and municipalities. Consultants
financed by IDA, totaling US$1.6 million, would be hired in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection and Employment of Consultants (January 1997 revised in
September 1997, and January 1999). It would be addressed through competition among
qualified short-listed firms in which the selection would be based on Quality-and Cost-Based
Selection (QCBS) by evaluating the quality of the proposals before combining quality and
cost evaluation by weighting and adding the quality and cost scores. To obtain expressions of
interest, DCMA will include a list of expected consulting assignments in the General
Procurement Notice. In addition, large consultants contracts above US$200,000 will be
advertised in Development Business. To establish a roster of consultants for carrying out
studies and construction supervision, DCMAs would publicize procurement notices in the
local press to get expression of interest from consultants. Based on criteria described in the
procedures manual, the DCMAs will maintain and update a roster of consultants which they
will use to establish short-lists, or select firms with the required qualifications.
The following other methods would also apply. For audits (financial and technical
audits) and other services of a standard nature, the Least-Cost Selection (LCS) would be the
most appropriate method -- the firm with the lowest price being selected provided its technical
proposal received the minimum qualifying mark. Consultants services for small studies and
construction supervision (estirnated to cost less than US$50,000 per contract and up to an
aggregate amount of US$300,000) would be based on Consultants' Qualifications (CQ),



Project Appraisal Document                                                                 Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                                     Page 4 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
based on the consultants'experience and competence relevant to the assignment. Services for
lectures and small studies, which can be delivered by individuals and do not need team work
or back-up supports, would be selected through comparison of qualifications (CVs) among
Individual Consultants (IC) expressing interest in the assignment or approached directly.
Single Source Selection (SSS) will be exceptionally used for the selection of simple contracts
under US$5,000, provided the aggregate amount of such contracts does not exceed the
equivalent of US$100,00 over the project life.



Project Appraisal Document                                                              Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                                  Page 5 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements3
(in US$million equivalent, including contigencies)
1. Subprojects (including civil                   12.6          1.13                       13.73
works and related studies and                    (11.4)        (1.0)          -           (12.4)
construction supervision)
2. Goods                                                        0.02         -              0.02
(0.01)        -             (0.01)
3. Consultants (including                                       2.43         -              2.43
contract management fees for                                   (2.43)        -             (2.43)
DCMAs)
4. Training                                                     0.54                        0.54
(0.49)                      (0.49)
5. Operating Costs                                              0.2          0.3            0.52
(0.01)        (--)          (0.01)
6. PPF                                 -           0.57         0.31                        0.88
-          (0.56)       (0.2)         -             (0.76)
Total Project Cost                  -          13.17         4.63         0.3           18.1
Total financed by IDA              -          (11.96)       (4.14)       (--)          (16.1)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured by the government)
Other = Items listed under "Other" include consulting services and local shopping.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA credit
8.    Short-lists of consultants for contracts estimated under US$100,000 may be comprised
entirely of national consultants, if a sufficient number of qualified firms (at least three) are
locally available at competitive costs. This would particularly apply to contracts for
architectural and engineering services. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest for
those contracts, they will not be excluded from consideration.
3 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al format
(additional to Table A, where applicable).



Project Appraisal Document                                                               Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                                   Page 6 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent including contingencies)
:i,;.   ..............     ...................--.?   .      l <
- - ?   s a    .............. ..                                     ...   ..   .
? ,n            ..........                                   ... ;  ........  ?,            :
?, ; ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...                          ...  .   .....
A. Firms
Generally                        1.4        --1.4
Audits & standard nature          -                            0.3-3                                  0.3
Simple small (below $5,000)                                                       0.1                 0.1
Small (below ($50,000)            -                                     0.3        -                  0.3
B. Individuals                    -         -                                     0.6                 0.6
All
Total    1.4                            0.3      0.3       0.7                 2.7
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines), Commercial Practices, and Single Sourcing.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
9.          IDA Reviews. Contracts financed by IDA above the threshold value of
US$100,000 equivalent for works and goods will be subject to IDA's prior review
procedures. The review process would cover about 27% of the contract amounts for works,
goods and consultants -- see Table B below. Selective post-review of contracts awarded
below the threshold level will apply to about one in three contracts and will be carried out by
Bank staff-- using audits, technical audits, and other consultants, as necessary. Bank staff
will also review the selection process for the hiring of consultants proposed by the Borrower.
Prior IDA review for the selection of consultants will include the review of budgets, short-
lists, selection procedures, requests for proposals, evaluation reports, contract awards, and
negotiated contracts. Prior IDA review will not apply to contracts for the recruitment of
consulting firms and individuals estimated to cost less than US$100,000 and US$50,000
equivalent, respectively. However, the exception to prior IDA review will not apply to the
Terms of Reference of such contracts, regardless of their value, to single-source hiring, to
assignments of a critical nature as determined by IDA, or to amendments of contracts raising
the contract value above the above-mentioned prior review thresholds. Standard terms of
reference for studies and construction supervision will be part of the procedures manual and
therefore not subject to prior review on a case by case basis. For all consultant contracts
subject to prior review (estimated above US$100,000), opening the financial envelopes will
not take place prior to receiving the Bank's no-objection to the technical evaluation.
Documents related to procurement below the prior review thresholds will be maintained by the
borrowers for ex-post review by auditors and by IDA supervision missions. For training
abroad and in-country, the program -- containing names of candidates, costs estimates,



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                         Page 7 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
content of courses, periods of training and selection of training institutions -- will be reviewed
by IDA annually.
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .....   .....    ............   ,   .  .......    ..... ., 
1. Works                                                         _
$300,000 and above    ICB                    $0.0
Between $100,000      NCB                    $2.60
And $300,000
Below $100,000        NCB                    Post Review
Below $50,000         Other (3 quotations)   Post Review
2. Goods
$100,000 and above    ICB                    $0.0
Below $100,000        NCB                    $0.0
Below $10,000         (3 quotations.)        Post review
3. Consultants                              _       _l
Short-lists           Below $50,000          Entirely composed of    Para 2.7 of Guidelines
national consultants
provided there is locally
a sufficient number of
qualified firms (at least
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                   three).
Firms                 $100,000 and above     QCBS                  $1.6
(Second para of
Appendix 1. 2 (a) of
Guidelines applies).
Firms                 Below $100,000         QCBS                  Post review
Below $50,000         CQ                     Post Review
Below $5,000          Other (single source)    $0.1
Individuals           $50,000 and above                            $0.1
Individuals           Below $50,000          Other                 Post Review
10.        Technical audits and Frequency of procurement supervision missions
proposed: Technical audit reports, in form and substance acceptable to IDA, on the
implementation of subprojects - including quality of execution and adequacy of procurement
- would be furnished three months before each annual review. One every twelve month(s)
(includes special procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                        Page 8 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
11.   Modification or waiver of the scope and conditions of contracts. Before agreeing
to any material extension, or any modification or waiver of the conditions of contracts that
would increase in aggregate its cost by more than 15 percent of the original price, the
Borrower should specify the reasons thereof and seek IDA's prior no-objection for the
proposed modification.
12.  Procurement Status of Ongoing Projects and Proposed Arrangements. National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures for public procurement in Cape Verde have recently
improved, but staff still need training and guidance by the resident mission in Dakar. Apart
from civil works which will be handled by a DCMA, remaining procurement would be
managed by the PCU and supervised by the office of projects coordination. The PCU will
include a procurement specialist. An assessment of the capacity of the PCU was carried out
during the appraisal mission, and strengthening needs will receive a special attention.
Basically, the PCU will be reinforced through: (i) the transfer of personnel who acquired
experience by working in previous operations; (ii) the recruitment of qualified staff and ad
hoc short-term consultant services, as required; and (iii) a specialized private firm to install
the financial management capacity and train staff as necessary.
13.    AGECABO -- Delegated Contract Management Agency (DCMA). The Government
supported the creation of a contract management agency -- the "Agencia Cabo Verdiana Para
Promocao do Emprego e Desenvolvimento Local" (AGECABO). This agency is independent,
private sector-oriented and initially set-up with the legal status of a not-for-profit company. Its
board consists of an administrator and key stakeholder representatives (representatives from the
Mayors' Association, the Chamber of Commerce and four representatives of NGOs). The private
status of AGECABO allows its General Director to order payments, by co-signing checks with the
Financial Director and transferring orders, without being submitted to numerous clearances. The
appointment of AGECABO's General Director has been done in a satisfactory manner. The
remaining AGECABO's key positions (Financial Director and a Technical Director), were under
recruitment at time of negotiations. AGECABO was not yet operational at time of negotiations.
AGECABO's performance would be developed through a pilot project under a PPF. AGECABO's
activities would be regularly subject to annual technical audits carried out separately from financial
audits by a qualified independent engineering firm, selected through a competition process, to be
acceptable by IDA
14.    DCMAs. For managing the first year program, at least one DCMA will be selected in
accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Employment of Consultants through competition
among qualified short-listed firms, in which the selection would be based on quality and cost
(QCBS). A procurement notice will seek expression of interests, one month before establishing the
short-list. AGECABO would not be precluded from submitting its candidacy to be short-listed,
provided it meets the required qualification criteria at time of short-listing. A satisfactory
assessment by IDA of AGECABO's capacity to handle procurement is a condition for short-
listing. The signature of a contract with at least one DCMA, acceptable to IDA, is a condition of
credit effectiveness. DCMAs will have to follow procedures described in the development credit
agreement for the Project. Procedures for small works (below US$50,000) and small contracts for
consulting services (below US$50,00 and US$5,000) have been agreed upon with the Government
and IDA, and are described in the Procedures Manual. The PCU would ensure that at any time,
DCMAs fees would never exceed 10% of the cost of sub-projects which they manage.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                         Page 9 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
15.    Selection of subprojects. UCP will advertise widely the procedures, especially as they
pertain to the categories of works and services eligible to be financed under the project. UCP will
sign a convention on a yearly basis with the DCMA for managing annual portfolios. The
Government agreed during negotiations that the portfolio of selected sub-projects would be
submitted to IDA for approval, in annual batches no later than June 30 of each year.
16.     Payment to Contractors and Advance Payment to DCMAs. Since the project seeks to
encourage the participation of SMEs, prompt payment (not exceeding one week) is central for the
efficient development of contractors and consultants for the works or services they execute. The
Government agreed with IDA during appraisal and confirmed during negotiations on the principle
that DCMAs would open a program account in a commercial bank which will receive payments
upon UCP's request. The Procedures Manual allows advance payments to DCMAs of up to 20%
of the estimated amount of contracts not subject to prior review.
17. Procedures Manual. The Procedures Manual to be used by DCMAs includes:
(i) eligibility criteria for selecting sub-projects submitted by local and central administrations for
implementation under the proposed project; (ii) procedures for carrying out pre-qualification,
calling for bids, selecting contractors, consultants and vendors and awarding contracts;
(iii) internal organization for supervision and control of works; (iv) disbursement procedures; and
(v) procedures for handing over completed works. The Procedures Manual including a
procurement section was reviewed during appraisal. The last version was transrnitted to IDA as a
condition of negotiations and has been reviewed. Both delegations agreed on additions required to
finalize this document. The final version acceptable to IDA will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
18.     During negotiations, the Government submitted and agreed with IDA on: (a) a
draft procurement plan for the first project year; (b) an improved version of the Procedures
Manual and ways to finalize it; (c) a proposal to select a firm to provide training and
guidance to the PCU in the area of financial management; (d) a proposal to select a firm to
conduct technical audits; and (e) a detailed recruitment and training plan. The Government
also gave assurance that it will: (a) finalize the Procedures Manual including standard
bidding documents to be used under NCB procedures and simplified procedures for small
works; (b) use the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for ICB, the Standard Request for
Proposals for the selection of consultants, and the Standard Bid Evaluation reports; (c) apply
the procurement procedures and arrangements outlined above; (d) update the procurement
plan 4 on a regular basis during annual reviews with IDA and other donors, to compare target
times and actual completion, and transmit it to IDA, during implementation, with all
procurement-related documents; and (e) carry out, during annual reviews, an assessment of
the effectiveness of bidding procedures and performance, as they relate to the program's
procurement experience, and propose for IDA and other donors' consideration any
modification to the current procedures to the extent that would accelerate procurement --
while still maintaining compliance with Procurement Bank's Guidelines and adequate control
over contract awards and payments.
4/Indicating compliance with aggregate limits on specified methods of procurement, revised
cost estimates for individual contracts and the total program -- including best estimates of
allowances for contingencies, as well as revised timing of estimated procurement actions.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                          Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                                                                           Page 10 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
19.          The Government gave assurance at negotiations that it will take the necessary
measures to ensure that procurement phases do not exceed the following target time periods:
P                                          --> . Z>S i .,- v .-.- ... 'uDE;- --:-- ......................  .> s-5 E t::: ........:-... . . . . .  -. . . . . . . . . ..
>>R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.i, t ,;>..    ...   ->^--....   ..^&F;i
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                    .   . .. ... . . . . ... .   . . . . . . -.... . .. ..  .....  ...........  }. ........  
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...   ,,...::, ; .,, -.., ...... -..............r
Preparation of bidding                      4 (6 for large contracts)
documents
Preparation of bids by bidders                         4 (6-10 for ICB)
Bid evaluation                         2 (4 for large contracts)
Signature of contracts                                      2
Payments                                            3



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                       Page 11 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Disbursement
1.   The proposed IDA Credit will finance a four-year investment prograrn. It will be
disbursed over five years according to the categories shown in Table C below. The Credit
would not follow the standard disbursement profile for Cape Verde, as implementation
arrangements are based on a five-year program. Thus, the program would not exceed the
five-year completion period, and the credit closing date would be six month after the end of
the fifth year, to allow payments of last invoices for contracts completed before the
completion date.
2.   Disbursements of the credit would be fully documented at time of submission of
withdrawal application, except for expenditures valued at less than US$200,000 equivalent
which would be made against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and would be kept
available for examination by auditors, technical audits, and by IDA supervision missions.
Applications for direct payments can be submitted for amounts exceeding US$50,000
equivalent. This amount would be increased to US$200,000 following satisfactory
assessment of financial management at the end of the second year.
Counterparts Funds, Program Account, and IDA support for Operating Costs
3.   Government's counterpart funds needed to cover the share of investment not financed
by IDA and other donors will be deposited by the government in a Program Account (PA).
Payment by the Government of the first tranche of US$40,000 is a condition of credit
effectiveness. Thereafter, Government will maintain the counterpart funds in the PA.
Special Account
4.   To facilitate disbursements, the Government would also open a Special Project Account
(SPA) at the Banco do Cabo Verde (Central Bank) in Praia for IDA's share of eligible
expenditures. The authorized allocation would be the equivalent of US$500,000 equivalent --
representing about two months of disbursement. IDA would make an initial deposit of
US$250,000 equivalent upon credit effectiveness, and the remaining balance will be made
available as soon as cumulative disbursements reach US$2,000,000. IDA would replenish the
SPA upon receipt of appropriate documentation satisfactory to IDA for incurred eligible
expenditures. Each replenishment request will be accompanied, as necessary, by an up-to-
date bank statement and a reconciliation statement. IDA would carry out, at the end of the
first year of implementation, a comprehensive assessment of the Program's financial
management to determine its adequacy and readiness for a new enhanced disbursement
method -- to be discussed with IDA at that time. A second assessment would be carried out at
the end of the third quarter of the second year of implementation to evaluate the effectiveness
of the transition to the new enhanced disbursement mode (LACI).
Accounting, Auditing and Financial Reporting
5.   The Program Coordination Unit (PCU) has been established as a separate entity in the
Office of the Vice-Prime Minister. A financial management expert has been recruited to assist in
the design and establishment of the financial management system of the Program Coordination



Project Appraisal Document                                                    Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                       Page 12 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Unit. The PCU will be responsible for overall program administrative and financial management,
including arrangements for financial and technical audits, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to IDA. The final configuration of the PCU, the profile of the staff as well as their job
descriptions and the relevant intemal control system will be determined and fully described in the
Manual of Procedures to be prepared by the financial management consultant.
6.   The PCU, AGECABO, and any other implementing NGOs will maintain each separate set
of accounting records for the activities carried out under the program. They will also be
responsible for the production of their individual annual financial statements. In addition to
maintaining the accounts at the central level, the PCU will be responsible for the consolidation of
the program accounts and the production of the annual financial statement. A computerized
accounting and financial management system, based on internationally acceptable accounting
principles agreed with the Bank is being established by a consultant. The consultant will also
prepare the accompanying accounting manual. The consultant will be responsible for the initial
training of the accounting and financial management staff on the efficient operation of the
computerized accounting system. He will also be responsible for the preparation of a training
program in financial management with an implementation timetable for the duration of the project.
The selection of the accounting software will ensure that the system is Y 2000 compliant.
7.   The Manual of procedures will be agreed to by IDA. Moreover, before program
effectiveness, a Bank Certified Financial Management Specialist will carry out an assessment of
the PCU's, AGECABO and other selected DCMA financial management systems (adequacy and
competence of the accounting and financial staff, relevance of the manual of procedures,
completeness of the accounting system) to determine their soundness and capability to provide IDA
accurate and timely information regarding program resources and expenditures. The assessment of
the financial management system will be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
Program Management Reports (PMR)
8.   Since this program was appraised in 1999 it financial reporting should be in compliance
with the guidelines set by the Loan Administration Change Initiative (LACI) or PMR-based
disbursement method. It was noted during appraisal that the PCU financial management is not yet
suitable for PMR-based disbursement. Consequently, it was agreed not to proceed immediately
with PMR-based disbursement during the first 24 months of implementation while the financial
management system is reinforced further to ensure an orderly transition to LACI. To that end,
IDA will carry out at the end of the first year of implementation, a comprehensive and detailed
assessment of the program financial management to determine its full readiness to LACI. A second
assessment will be carried out at the end of the third quarter of the second year of implementation
to evaluate the effectiveness of the action recommended toward a full transition to LACI.
9.   During those first two years of implementation, meanwhile, disbursements under the
program will be made in accordance with the SOE-based approach. The program will still be
required to submit, in addition to its financial statements, five quarterly reports, namely a
Summary of Sources and Uses of Funds, a Contract Expenditure Report - Goods & Works, a
Contract Expenditure Report - Consultants, a Procurement Management Report - Good & Works,
and a Procurement Management Report - Consultants. All procurement documents, contracts, and
invoices would be maintained separately by the Program Coordination Unit and be made accessible
to supervision missions and auditors.



Project Appraisal Document                                                     Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                        Page 13 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Auditing
10. During negotiations, the Government provided assurance that: (a) AGECABO, and other
DCMAs (on a sample basis) accounts will be audited in accordance with intemational audit
standards by an experienced and internationally recognized audit firm acceptable to IDA. The
audit reports and related program accounts will be submitted to IDA within 6 months after the end
of Government fiscal year; and (b) reports on the construction program and technical audits by an
independent engineering firm will be submitted within four months after the end of the govenmment
fiscal year. Financial auditors will perform interim audits (9 months into the fiscal year) to review
the intemal control system including management performance, and issue reports to that effect
within one month form the end of their work. The findings and recommendations of the interim
audit will be attended to by management right away before the return of the auditors for the final
audit. Furthermore, the financial auditors will: (a) in addition to their standard short-form report
with opinion, be required to: (i) carry out a comprehensive review of all the SOEs as well as the
internal control procedures governing their preparation for the relevant period under audit, and
express a separate opinion thereon, and (ii) review the management and utilization of the special
account and express a separate opinion thereon as well; (b) complete their in-depth review, started
at interim, of the internal control system of the program with a view to identify the major
weaknesses and shortcomings and propose practical recommendations for improvement. The
results of this review would be documented in a Management Letter to be submitted along with the
audit reports; and (c) finally, the auditor will issue a report on the management performance of
AGECABO and other DCMAs on the soundness of the procedures of contracting out aspects of
implementation. This report will be submitted within three months after the end of the government
fiscal year.
12. The contracting of auditors (financial and technical), on multi-year contract, acceptable to
IDA, and certification by the financial auditors that the project accounting system is operational, is
a condition of credit effectiveness.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                      Annex 6
Country: Cape Verde                                                                         Page 14 of 14
Social Sector Development Project
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
........ .. ..et.oftoxe
,.   .;... ,,o ...   .......... - . . .,...............  w. *..........             .   b... . .
,,,,,;,. ,   ,. .................                                                            a ............... ,.; 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..                      :    . .. ..> <  .     --X- ..... .;Sf,2;''';
1. Subprojectss                                     11.3                            90%
2. Goods                                             0.1                   100% of imported goods
and 90% of local purchases
3. Consultanlts                                     2.2                              100%
4. Trailiing                                        0.5                              90%
5. Operating Costs                                  0.1                             90%*
6. PPF                                              0.9
7. Unallocated (a)                                   1.0                            N.A.
TOTAL                                            16.1
(a): Includes investment activities for the remaining two program years to be
allocated in accordance with financing plans agreed at the joint annual meeting
between Government and donors.
* operating costs of the PCU 'ire financed mainly by Government, they include
incremental operating costs incurred on account ofprogram implementation,
management and supervision, including office supplies, office equipment and vehicle
operation and maintenance, travel and allowances including those for trainers and
trainees, but excluding salaries of officials of the borrower's civil service..



Appraisal Document                                                         Annex 7
Country: Cape Verde                                                      Page 1 of I
Social Sector Development Project Project
Annex 7: Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
Time taken to prepare the project             43 months             43 months
(months)
First Bank mission (identification)       January 29, 1996    January 29, 1996
Appraisal mission departure                 March 25, 1998      February 15,1999
Negotiations                               March 15, 1999         April 14, 1999
Board                                       July 25, 1999         May 25, 1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness             September 1, 1999  _
Prepared by: Tonia Marek
Preparation assistance: Myrina McCullough
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Bernard Abeille                       Sr. Procurement Officer
Siaka Bakayoko                        Financial Management Specialist
Aissa Chipkaou                        Task Team Assistant
Alassane Diawara                      Sr. Operation Officer
Steen Jorgensen                       Social Fund Peer Reviewer
Tonia Marek                           Sr. Public Health Specialist
Myrina McCullough                     Program Assistant
Marie-Madeleine Ndaw                  Task Team Assistant
Ahmadou Moustapha Ndiaye              Financial Management Specialist
Leslie Pean                           Sr. Economist
Nadine Poupart                        Social Fund Specialist
Gradimir Radisic                      Country Economist for Cape Verde



Appraisal Document                                                                   Annex 8
Country: Cape Verde                                                                Page 1 of 2
Social Sector Development Project Project
Annex 8 : Documents in the Project File*
Republic of Cape Verde: Social Sector Development Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
* Draft
B. Bank Staff Assessments
*  Aide-Memoires of missions January 1996, September 1996, November 1996, March 1997,
May 1997, January 1998, July 1998, October 1998, December 1998.
*  Memorandum of the President of the IDA to the Executive Directors on a Country
Assistance Strategy of the World Bank Group for the Republic of Cape Verde, December 1,
1997. The World Bank.
* Technical Note on Cape Verde's Micro-Finance Schemes, by Djenan Khayatt, PSDDR,
August 1997
C. Other
* A.C.E. AudiConseil, "Etude de l'applicabilite du modele Agetip dans le cadre de la
Reconversion des FAIMO", Rdpublique du Cap Vert, mars 1997.
*  Programa Nacional de Luta Contra a Pobreza-Docuinento Quadro, Republica de Cabo Verde,
1998
* Programme d'Action National de Lutte contre la Ddsertification et d'Attenuation des Effets
de la Secheresse (PAN), Secrdtariat Exdcutif pour I'Environnement (SEPA), Ministere de
l'Agriculture, de l'Alimentation et de l'Environnement, Republique du Cap Vert, Avril 1998
*  Programa Municipal de Luta Contra a Pobreza, Concelho de Santa Cruz, Citi-Habitat, Cape
Verde, March 1997
*  Programa de Luta contra a Pobreza, Municipio de S. Vicente, Atelier Mar, Cape Verde,
March 1997
* Programa de Luta contra a Pobreza, Concelho de Santa Catarina, M. Moniz/C. Gomes, Cape
Verde, 1997
e  Programa Municipal de Luta contra a Pobreza, Concelho de S. Domingos, Citi-Habitat, Cape
Verde, March 1997
*  Programa Municipal de Luta contra a Pobreza, Concelho de S. Miguel, Citi-Habitat, Cape
Verde, March 1997
* Programa de Luta Contra a Pobreza, Boa Vista/Sal/S. Nicolau, Jacinto Estrela, Cape Verde,
March 1997
* Programa Desenvolvimento Social do Concelho da Praia-Combate a Pobreza, Camara
Municipal da Praia, Cape Verde, August 1997
* Programa de reducao da Pobreza no Municipio do Porto Novo, ADPN, Cape Verde, October
1997 (2 vol.)
*  Programa Municipal de Luta contra a Pobreza, Concelho do Tarrafal, Citi-Habitat, Cape
Verde, March 1997
* Synthese sur la decentralisation et sur les municipalites de la Rdpublique du Cap Vert,
Association Nationale des Municipalitds du Cap Vert/Mission Francaise de Coopdration,
Christophe Casas, Novembre 1996
*  Atelier Municipal de Restituicao do Programa Municipal de Luta Contra a Pobreza,
Concelho da Praia,
* Assembleia Nacional 12 de Dezembro de 1997, Comunicado Final
* Developpement Social Urbain, Identification de Projets de Quartier, Appui a la Municipalite
de Praia, AFVP/Ph. Durand, Mars 1997



Appraisal Document                                                                    Annex 8
Country: Cape Verde                                                                 Page 2 of 2
Social Sector Development Project Project
*  Programa Nacional de Luta Contra a. Pobreza, Modelo de Micro-Credito e Actividades
Geradoras de Rendimento na Optica da Reducao da Pobreza, Madalena B. Neves, Cape
Verde, November 1997.
* Cooperaqao Austia-Cabo Verde, Promocao de Micro-, Pequenas et Medias Empresas,
Programa Sectorial, D. Klare, Cape Verde 1997.
*  ACDI, "Cape Verde: Micro Enterprise Training and Lending Program", november 1995.
* Bulletin Official da Republica de Cabo Verde, 11 de Maio de 1998, Decreto-Lei No. 21/98 "on
the creation of an Agency" (AGECABO)
* Supplement Bulletin Official da Republica de Cabo Verde, 27 de Agosto de 1998, Resolucao
No. 40-B/98, "on the creation of the Project Coordination Unit" (PCU)



Project Appraisal Document                                                                Annex 9
Country: Cape Verde                                                                     Page 1 of I
Social Sector Development Project
Annex 9
Supervison Plan
Mission                            Date                       Mission members
Project Launch Workshop               September 1999                       TTL
Financial Mngt. Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Social Fund Specialist
Supervision                      January 2000                        TTL
Economist
Supervision                       May 2000                           TTL
Financial Mngt. Specialist
First Annual Review                 September 2000                       TTL
Financial Mngt. Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Social Fund Specialist
Supervision                       March 2001                         TTL
Economist
Second Annual Review                 September 2001                       TTL
Mid-Term Review                                                Financial Mngt. Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Social Fund Specialist
Supervision                       March 2002                         TTL
Economist
Thirst Annual Review                 September 2002                       TTL
Financial Mngt. Specialist
Procurement Specialist
Social Fund Specialist
Supervision                       March 2003                         TTL
Economist
Financial Mngt. Specialist
Final Review                      August 2003                         TTL
Financial Mngt. Specialist
Social Action Fund



Annex 10
Pioject Appraisal Document                                                                     AGtL CABOC                                                                          Page I of 3
Country :Cape Verde                                                       Tann                                     nrpeer
Social Sector Development Project----Annex 10: Tann Program  for Small EternusOi )6
1999  Ut.' 3. 1999      Ott0, 4.N  1999 e  1. Jt f. 00
lii    0  ra~~~~~~~~k (tatttu                              I )~~~~~~~~~~uiJttuio  ,tu        Ie           May  Jiul   7.-I7                                 ai.l.~
formlationl ries Elitelgisus,tc~ M-0 et Pet icutttell AGE-CAIJO   219 thdys      Moll 5/3/99       u.nt 3/2100
2                 Selectioni Cablinet forniiatiwti                 .30 clays                   Tile 6/1/199    Moot 7/12199
3    ElAPfpataliot. Tairnes du 1161aeretces                                       S rtalys     Ttie 611/99      Mon 6/7/99
4                     Approbation1 TOR                                             I dlay      Tile 6/0/99       Toie 6/8/99
5               ~~~~~~~Nun obijufioni iIM            .        .2 days                    Wedi 6/9/99      Thut 6/10/99
6               ~~~~~~~SilItl list                                          3v.etays      Eli 6/1 9/99    Ttte 6/15/99
7               ll~~~~~~~ecepliun(m des piroposilionis                      90 days     Wudt (i 6/9699    lo it  /29/99
8               ~~~~~~~Evaluiatioi ties5 9)rot)osiliotls                    2 dlays     Wedt 6/30199       Ilthi 7/1/99
9               ~~~~~~~Accoid (Ito G,otvcretfitet.It                        3 days         F.i 712/99       Tile 7/W/9
10              ~~~~~~Noll oljeclionl DM                                     2 days      Wed 7/7/99         Thiu 7/8/99
11              ~~~~~~NerjoiaUion contlrat avec cal.itiet                    2 dlays       Flai 7/9/99    Moll 7/12199
1 2                   SigotallsoL cottlial                                        0 thty%,    MooI tt 1/2/99   Mutt 7/12/99                 711
13                Classificationi Enl,. El MO                                    60 days       Moni 5/3/99       Fri 7123/99
14               Ph~~~~~llase pleparatobil,                                 95 d.itys    Mott 5/3/99       Fti 5/21/99
15                    Avis 9Qtn~t!il pouIf ittscipttot                           JO daIys     Muti 5/24/99        F.  //9          ,-
96              ~~~~~~Clusse.necnl                                          15 rlitys     muit 7/5/99       I'di /23/99
17                Pr'ogramini to d  (otiutaliost                                I61 fillays    TueL 7/13/99t     TOt 3/2/00
18              ~~~~~~Eithepirise at Maitre d'Oe~tvot.                    114 rlatys    mott 9/2//99-      IITu 3/2/00
19                 ~~~~~~~~Semiiniairos                                   27 days      Muw  9/27199      Tueo 11/2/99
20                             lthlorn.ialion                                      2 days     molt 9/27/99       ftue 9/28/99                             g~-
21P.ecFtttttn                                                                   2 claiys   Monl 1 1/9/99     Tile 11/2199
ITash                                       n Iea                                     lhdlrItip 'i 0   Ioulss
l'rolect; Fnna~au P. .uueu AttoSplit                  ~lu  /pI~s                                                     External Tasks
Date: Fri 4/16/99                       Ptog.ess                                   I (olud Up11 Spilit                         P'roject Sutuikitnaty
Milestonle                                fHo9led Up9 Milestutte <



Annex 10                                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Page 2 of 3                                                                                        Country :Cape Verde
Social Sector Development Project
1999   J 01i3. 1969    -     h  .199         jt.1  00   _
ID 0    ask Mai,ne                                                         DMa1 i             latiy  _us J_                               d   A.i jAw 1 Sp I    Novj Dec                iMX
22                          CIianitiers EcuLeS                                       2 clakys     Wed 311100         Thut 312100
23   ~~~~~~~~~~rfouuatiolu. skis calfaiels                                   2 (lays      WVed 3/ 1 01)      TI it 3/2(00
24               ~~~~~~~Personael 'AGECAIIO                                   22 days       yte 711 13199    WetS a 81t1199             ____
25                          Forintalioti ituloiniliqtu.                               5 days       It1 n l /1:3/99  Moll ?/19/99
Fonnialioni geshuon i.tlum.ialist.e                     it) utlys     I like 7/20/99     Monil 0/2/99
27                  ~~~~~~~~SIa'g e/V i-s I Ie AG E 1IP                        7 diays      Tire 8/3/319     Wed 0/1 1199
rasp  ~ ~ ~   ~ ~ ~             Sas..u..~~~~ifluy                             w itlled L Ip I'.ocjjtessi
Psojecl. Fkxorva~io Plriiitniro Asio      SpIlut                                       tolled LIp I a:k                            E -  Femats l't aus
Da~te., 1ti 41l6l91)                     psogiess               Im    flotlut) %)p' bgittt                   , ,,,,                Pioject Summlilary                    4
I   -         Milestone                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rolled tip Milestonle



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                        Annex  10
Country: Cape Verde                                                                                                              Page 3 of 3
Social Sector Development Project
AGECABO: ProU,alalllao tie formna(ioti potir Ia premi6re annte
('()111 E l    l :NI:I         II'N N"                               cI',tcitmF               I OCAI ISAT ION
Pl-ogria'iiise tie fornit(wI.io6
Fiii ejn e  a A hadiie     id'O e aauiv i 'M                                         __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _                                 68__ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
SuMiniaircs
IflIOlIlI."llioll                                                         !IJJI                M                                                    MITI  Paj, Tartafal , Mi\'dlu:o L' i Z   M-an1de
PtI fcc imi )illent ,I'i .                                                                                                                                     i         Miidd  iX)()   R.( GfaldL
(II ;lliis  I  k-kICIIS                                                 l~)0?l)I/l))                                                              Sitai,S   'cII    iSaIllt) A\IIlif
F-L)l 111.11iOtl Sill 01IiiiilC I                                          :1 00)             I                                                                        p1   0Mi I  pllsgi( IrilaulCS
SiajgcIVisile AGP TIP                                                     300X                Inn                     5                            1)ak ar
See PAD) Aiaicx 2, .age 7



Status of Bank Group Operations in Cape Verde
Operations Portfolio
As of 26-Apr-99
Difference Between
expected
original Amount in US$ Millions                     and actual
Fiscal                                                                                 ___                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year                 Borrower                     Purpose
IBRD         IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed         Orig    Frm Rev'd
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
CV-PE-55467      1999   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                 PRIVATIZATION TA                          0.00         9.00        0.00               8.59          .27        0.00
CV-PE-50956      1998   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                 ECO. REFORMS SUPPORT                      0.00        30.00        0.00              14.79        11.53        0.00
CV-PE-438        1996   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                 PRIVATE/FINANCIAL SE                      0.00        11.40        0.00               4.95        2.26         0.00
CV-PE-426        1995   MIN EDUC & SPORTS/LABOR,           BASIC EDUCATION AND                       0.00        11.50        0.00               1.38         -.75        0.00
CV-PE-437        1994   GOV. OF CAPE VERDE                 PUB SEC REFORM & CAP                      0.00         8.10        0.00               1.51         1.11        1.11
CV-PE-435        1993   GOV, ENAPOR, ASA                   TRANSPORT INFRASTRUC                      0.00        12.50        0.00               2.34         2.37        0.00
Total                                                                                                0.00       82.50         0.00              33.56       16.79:        1.11
Active Projects       Closed Projects            Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):                    47.31               23.40                70.71
of which has been repaid:                    0.00                  .79                  .79
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                    82.50               20.41               102.91
Amount sold                                         0.00                 0.00                0.00
Of which repaid               :                  0.00                0.00                 0.00
Total Undisbursed                 :                33.56                0.00                33.56
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month and is currently as of 31-Mar-99.
CD
X



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Cape Verde
STATEMENT OF lFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 3 1-Mar-99
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval             Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1992                  AEF Growela               .30    0.00    0.00    0.00     .30    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  AEF Htl Tropico          .60    0.00    0.00    0.00      .60    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                     .90    0.00    0.00    0.00     .90    0.00    0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equitv  Quasi  Partic
Total Pending Commitment:           0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00



Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
Cape Verde at a glance                                                                4/29/99
Sub-   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                  Cape  Saharan   middle-
Verde    Africa  income        Development diamond
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                      0.40       614     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                  1,047       500      1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     0.42       309      2,818
Average annual growth, 199147
Population (%)                                        2.3        2.7       1.2
Labor force (%)                                       1.3        2.6       1.3     GNP                             Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capia                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poveily line)  30
Urban population (% of total population)               52        32        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                       65        52        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)               46        90        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under5)              19        27         ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% of population)                 52        44        84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                   28        43        19
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)  114        75       111              Cape Verde
Male                                                119        82       116              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                              110        67       113
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratlos
GDP (US$ billions)                          0.06     0.15       0.43      0.43
Gross domestic investmenVGDP                36.3     48.3       33.5      30.3
Exports of goods and services/GDP           10.7     24.8       23.7      30.9                    Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  -29.6     -7.7      -6.9      -4.6
Gross national savings/GDP                  -34.1     9.3       25.7      23.5
Current account balance/GDP                    ..   -27.8       -7.9      -6.8
Interest payments/GDP                        0.2      1.4        0.5      0.5      Domestic                    Investment
Total debtVGDP                              19.2     79.2       53.8      61.8     Savings
Total debt service/exports                    ..      7.4        5.1       7.6
Present value of debt/GDP                    0.0      0.0       31.4     36.2
Present value of debVexports                  ..      0.0       68.4     73.6
Indebtedness
1976-86  1987-97    1996       1997   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                10.6      3.5      4.3        3.0       4.3              Cape Verde
GNP per capRta                      9.4      1.2      1.5        0.2       1.6              Lower-middle-income gRoup
Exports of goods and services      17.3      7.4     25.0        6.6      13.5
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997      Growth rates of output and investmfent(%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                 11.4     11.7        7.5       8.6     4
Industry                                    20.5     18.0       17.6     21.4      20.
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       0.6       0.5      0
Services                                    68.1     70.3       74.9      70.0    _2 /  2   93   94   bV096   97
Private consumption                        118.9     82.1       77.4      84.5    -40
General govemment consumption               10.7     25.7       29.5     20.1
Imports of goods and services               76.6     80.9       64.2      65.9                    GD      --GOP
(average annual growth)                  1976-86  1987-97      1996      1997      Growth rates of exports and imports (%)
Agriculture                                  9.3     -6.7        5.7       6.1    3
Industry                                     7.6      6.4        2.5      6.7    20 2
Manufacturng                                 .      18.7       3.9       3.5    20
Services                                    11.7      5.0        4.8       1.5     o
4    9 3   94    0          7
Private consumption                          6.9      3.4       -2.9       3.9   -10-
General government consumption              12.6     13.3       -2.7      -7.3   -20
Gross domestic investment                   10.2      3.1        1.5      -2.1   -30
Imports of goods and services                8.0      8.1       -3.1      -2.0            -     Exports    0-Imports
Gross nationalproduct                       10.8      3.4        4.0       2.9
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Cape Verde
PRICES andi GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986      1996      1997      Inflation (%)
Domestc prices12
(% change)                                                                          190                                     O
Consumer prices                                 ..    10.9         6.2      10.6
Implicit GDP deflator                          0.0     16.4        4.4       9.5     4
4 
Government ffnance                                                                   2
(%of GDP, includes cu/rent grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                 ..    21.9        35.9      36.8             92   93    94    95    96    97
Current budget balance                           ..     OA         8.9      11.1             -     GDP deflator  -e--CPI
Overall surphls/deficit                         ..   -39.1       -19.9    -14.6
TRADE
(US$ millibns)                               1976    1986        1996      1997      Export and import levels (USS millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..         13       40      291
Commodity1                                     ..       ..         1         1
Commodity 2                                    ..        ..        1         1
Manufactures                                   ..       ..         0         0
Total imports (civ                               .       91       203       209      148              f    I
Food                                                              45        47     18.m 
Fuel and energy                                ..       ..        10        10
Capitalgoods                                   ..       ..       119        79  o-  0                   _ _    _= 
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      ..       100       100           91   92   93   94   95   96   97
Importpriceindex(1995=100)                      ..       ..       106       107                cExports      r Imports
Temis of trade (1995=100)                        ..      ..        94        94
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ minions)                                1976     1986       1996      1997      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsofgoodsandservices                       ..       36       101       132       o                  - _
Imports of goods and services                   ..    102         273       280      -2        92    93    9   95 
Resoure balance                                  ..     -65       -172     -149      -4
Net income                                       .       -4        .7        -7      -6
Net current transfers                            .       73       146       108      -8
-10 
Current account balance                          ..    -41        -33       -29      12
Financing items (net)                           ..       44        36        24    -14
Changes in net reserves                         ..       4          -3        5      -16
Memo:
Reserves including gold (USS nmEons)           33        56        54        50
Conversion rate (DEC, locaVUS$)               30.2     80.1       82.6      93.2
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1996      1997
(US$ m7illons)                                                                       Composltdon of total debt, 1997 (US$ millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            12      115       229       263
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0                   F:9   G 6
IDA                                           0        5         42        49                                 1 . :49|
Total debt service                              0         5         10       16             E:39
IBRD                                          0        0          0         0
IDA                                           0        0          0         0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              11       76         62        62
Official creddors                            11        7         36        16
Private creditors                             0         1         0         0
Foreign direct investment                     0        0         28        12
Portfolio equity                              0        0          ..                                D:160
World Bank program
Commdments                                    0         0        11        30      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 0         2         9         8      B- IDA    D - Other munailateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                          0         0         0         0      C - IMF                      G - Short-term
Net flows                                     0         2         9         8   1a1
Interest payments                             0        0          0         0
Net transfers                                 0         1         9         8
Development Economics                                                                                                  4/29/99



BRD 30183
2530                   Ponto dr St    30.+ 25n00                          24 30                                 2400                                 23'30                                  23 00
-     OJ_nn,nibir Goondo
Cr nioonho ~IId~' .    8   9Pnntgdo S9negrga                                                                                                                    Tha boondonon. colors. dono...n.n.o.n-d ady othr informon-o
-h     - 7r  -Ap do n ot nY oply. otol p of The Wo-ld dank Gro-p,
f   ~ ~ ~~APTANTAO
4
ronlo "    00 don odoCaso
-oI -nno Songm   B   doo Golon
h-                                                                                                                                                      00.-0 Norta
Son Padro     w-' Modeirol                              v  y'    X.                                                                                   
SAO VICENTE                S~-ANTA LUZIA                    '                                                                                                oo'~
SAOrVconcori      Rihb.oo do P,03%                                                 D                                                  SAL p  I
B   co I ,              0i i , VlaM.". B-on
r005    2                                                                                                            - ''dCtMIhion
-1630                                               C A P E   V E R D E                                         2  SAOONCOLAU                                                                                                                           1630
SOCIAL SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                                                                                                                                              0
SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
4'   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                                                                                                1Eop,nooo,nn
Vo .d. 5.-Ron
MAIN PORTS                                                                                                                                                           o-Rt,      oforn on
OTHER PORTS                                                                                                                                                           .    oh,     /  - dodnlgos
MAJOR AIRPORTS: HARD SURFACE,
+    RUNWAY LENGTH OF 900* METERS                                                                                                                           BOA VISTA
FIRST CLASS ROADS                                                                                                                                                                                 WOO, 0/Con  16000
16-00'                                              SECOND CLASS ROADS
ELEVATION IN METERS
1         *1 OOa
500-1000
i O-500
..........  COUNCIL BOUNDARIES
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
n     '0    2q      30      40     S0     60 KILOMETERS
I             ~       ~ ~~~~I  I 
-155 30'              25S30    R A,                                                                                                                                      S       L      A        N       D        S
FORMER                        \R                                                                                       D
SPANISH r                        \                                                                             R
,SAHARA;                              .\\
MAURITANIA                                                                                                               T-orrISa
MALI                                                                                                    4      )jOnd. S-IORi6.,lnn 
CAPE        SE .EGAM'A1L I                                                                                                         SANTIAGO r                                         M,               00d0010G
THE GAMBIASGO                    ,          * BURKINA 'lbeira do   B                                                                                      ado  Bode                    Poolo IngIo0> -zFIgoidH
GUINEA-BISSAL ,_  0                      '     FASO                                                                                      P.,lo R6i.np,   i otoodo    . Prpia B....
NEA
-j    5,0,          ~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~       ~                                                                   0110di0100'
0'          ,  0            05                        Son/no             cloodnGsnndnseSool ROM                            S Sp     -        0000 ornnn-onn
SIERRA LEONE frn        C6TE   >1                                   '    P,i.oh                                                            c
DSI F R   It                t            N  ,/,.DVOIRE  z  V.].do C- olo ,  0/0 FOGO                                     --V
LUBER1I~-,                                  F.7             000                                                             1dI5
-  TOGO             BR   A Cln N.- oS-hOon .~o3Ao
30~30                                 2400*230230
MARTH 19990



