Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3224-1 CV 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Social Sector Development Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated December 19,  2003
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3224-1 CV 
(Amendment) 
AGREEMENT AMENDING 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated December 19, 2003, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE 
VERDE (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into a 
Development Credit Agreement dated  June 3, 1999, as amended from time to time  
(the Development Credit Agreement), for the financing of the Social Sector Development 
Project as described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide additional 
assistance towards financing of the Project, including subprojects and consultants’ services, 
by increasing the amount made available under the Development Credit Agreement by an 
amount in various currencies equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of the foregoing, to 
provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth 
in this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement (as hereinafter defined); 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
 
October 6, 1999) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Section 1.02 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended as 
follows: 
(a) 
the word “and” at the end of sub-section (t) is deleted, and the “.” at the 
end of sub-section (u) replaced with “;”; 
 
(b) 
a new sub-section (v) is added to read as follows: 
 
“(v) 
“Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement” 
means this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
between the Borrower and the Association, dated                                    , 
2003; and”; and 
Page  3
-
2
-
(c) 
a new sub-section (w) is added to read as follows: 
 
“(w) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” means the report referred to in 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement.” 
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Credit Agreement is amended to 
read as follows: 
 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million eight hundred 
thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 14,800,000) (the Credit), which includes: 
(a) an original amount in various currencies equivalent to eleven million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 11,900,000) (the Initial 
Financing); and (b) a supplemental amount in various currencies equivalent to two 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,900,000) 
 
(the Supplemental Financing).”
 
Section 1.04. In Section 2.03, the Closing Date is amended to read: 
 
“March 31, 2005”.  
 
Section 1.05. Section 2.04 (b) (i) of the Development Credit Agreement is 
amended by adding after the term “cancelled” the following proviso
:
“provided however, that any commitment charge on the Supplemental 
Financing shall accrue from a date sixty (60) days after the date of the 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.06. Section 2.07 is amended to read as follows:  
 
“(a) 
Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall:  
(A) 
repay the principal amount of the Initial Financing in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15, commencing September 15, 2009 and 
ending March 15, 2039. Each installment to and 
including the installment payable on March 15, 2019, 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and 
each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of 
such principal amount; and 
(B) 
repay the principal amount of the Supplemental 
Financing in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15, commencing March 15, 
2014 and ending  September 15, 2043. Each installment 
to and including the installment payable on 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
September 15, 2023 shall be one percent (1%) of such 
principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall 
be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.” 
(b)  
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product 
(GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three 
consecutive years the level established annually by the Association for 
determining eligibility to access the Association’s resources; and (ii) the 
Association shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the Executive 
Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by: 
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of 
each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the 
principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual 
payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out 
in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, 
that there shall be a grace period of a minimum of five 
years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an 
annual rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned  repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to 
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic 
condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by 
the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule 
of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.”
 
Section 1.07.  Section 4.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.01.  (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management 
system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
Page  5
-
4
-
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards, acceptable to the 
Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project. 
 (b) 
The 
Borrower 
shall: 
 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this Section, including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year, or other period agreed to by the Association, audited, 
in accordance with consistently applied auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association by independent auditors acceptable 
to the Association; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year 
or such other period agreed to by the Association, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year, or such other period agreed to by the 
Association, as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the 
Association; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit of such 
financial statements, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall: 
 
(i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which 
the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
 
(iii) enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and 
Page  6
-
5
-
(iv) ensure that such statements of expenditures are included in 
the audit for each fiscal year or other period agreed to by the 
Association, referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and that 
the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said 
auditors as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
Section 1.08.  Section 4.02 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower’s progress 
reporting obligations set out in paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development 
Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, 
showing separately funds provided under the Credit, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned uses 
of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 60 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 60 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and 
shall cover such calendar quarter.”  
Section 1.09. The table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Credit Agreement is deleted and replaced with the table set forth in Attachment I to this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 1.10. Paragraph 2 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
Page  7
-
6
-
“(c) 
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs 
incurred on account of Project implementation, including office supplies and 
equipment, rental of office space, vehicle operation and maintenance, 
communication and travel costs, and Bank charges related to the operation of the 
Special Account, but excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil 
service.” 
Section 1.11.  Paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement 
is amended to read as follows: 
“4. 
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be 
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) goods 
and works under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent and $200,000 
equivalent, respectively; (ii) consultants’ services (firms) under contracts not 
exceeding $100,000 equivalent; (iii) consultants’ services (individuals) and 
audits under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; (iv) subprojects;  
(v) training; and (vi) operating costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.” 
Section 1.12. The last line in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement is 
deleted and replaced by the words: 
 
“The project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2004”. 
Section 1.13. Paragraph 1 of Part C of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
“1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$13,400,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the 
Guidelines.” 
 
Section 1.14. Paragraph 3 of Part C of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
 
“3. 
Procurement of Small Works
Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$3,100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three 
(3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The 
invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, including 
Page  8
-
7
-
basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where 
applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who offers the 
lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.  Pre-qualification 
shall be widely advertised in the local press (all islands) and updated 
every six months.  Qualification criteria, scope of works to be completed 
during the next twelve months and their location, shall be made known to 
all candidates.” 
 
Section 1.15. Paragraph 2 of Part D of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit 
Agreement is amended to read as follows: 
“2. Prior 
Review
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more for goods, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 
3
of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply; and (b) with respect to 
each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more for 
works, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to 
the Guidelines shall apply.” 
 
Section 1.16. A new Schedule (Schedule 7) is added to the Development Credit 
Agreement, as set forth in Attachment II to this Agreement Amending the Development 
Credit Agreement. Consequently, paragraph 4 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to the 
Development Credit Agreement is also amended to read as follows: 
“The Borrower shall:  
(a) maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators set 
forth in Schedule 7 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof;” 
Page  9
-
8
-
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 2.01. This Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement shall 
not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been 
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivery of this Agreement Amending 
the Development Credit Agreement on behalf of the Borrower has been duly authorized or 
ratified by all necessary governmental action, and this Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with 
its terms. 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement, there shall be furnished to 
the Association an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the Association showing, on behalf of 
the Borrower, that this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement has been 
duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of the Borrower and is 
legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
Section 2.03. This Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement shall 
come into force and effect on the date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the 
Borrower notice of its acceptance of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement. 
Section 2.04. If this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
shall not  come into force and effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement, this Agreement Amending the 
Development Credit Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, 
unless the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section.  If this 
Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate under the 
provisions of this Section, the Development Credit Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect, as if this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement had not 
been executed. 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement Amending the Development Credit Agreement 
to be signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE 
 
By    
/s/ 
José Brito
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
 
 
/s/ Pamela Cox 
Authorized Representative 
Page  11
-
10 - 
 
Attachment I
 
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1. 
The table below  sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items to be financed in each Category: 
 
Category
Initial Financing 
Amount of the 
Credit Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR 
Equivalent)
Supplemental 
Financing Amount 
of the Credit 
Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR Equivalent)
%
of Expenditures 
to be financed
(1) Subprojects 
8,800,000 
2,200,000 
100% of amounts 
disbursed  
(2) Goods 
 
130,000 
 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
 
(3) 
Consultants’ 
services and audits 
 
2,190,000 
 
330,000 
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 
90% of local 
expenditures 
 
(4) Training 
 
270,000 130,000 
90% 
 
(5) Operating 
Costs 
190,000 
40,000 
90% 
(6) Refunding 
of 
Project Preparation 
Advance 
284,823 
 
Amount due 
pursuant to 
Section 2.02 (c ) 
of this Agreement 
(7)
Unallocated 35,177 
200,000 
 
 
TOTAL 
_________ 
11,900,000 
======== 
_________ 
2,900,000 
======== 
 
Page  12
Attachment II
 
SCHEDULE 7
 
Performance Indicators 
 
Indicators 
Projected Final 
Original Project 
(Dec 2003) 
Target of 
Supplemental 
(March 2005) 
Projected Final Original Project  
+
Supplemental 
(March 2005) 
Projected Target 
Target 
Outcome indicators 
 
1
Total number of 
person/month employment 
created (direct only; 
direct + 
indirect)
 
15,000 
31,500 
1,750 
7,000 
16,750 
38,500 
2
Total number of 
person/month of ex-FAIMO 
workers employed (direct 
only; 
direct + indirect
)
12,200 
28,000 
1,600 
7,000 
13,800 
35,000 
3
Number of operating 
Municipal Partners 
Commissions 
17 17 
17 
Output indicators 
 
4
Number of direct 
beneficiaries of completed 
sub-projects (1) 
285,000 33,000 
318,000 
5
Percentage of new facilities 
fully functioning 
90% 80% 
90% 
6
Percentage allocated to 
AGECABO for operating 
costs (2) 
9% 8% 
9% 
7
Number of members of local 
facility management 
committees trained in 
operations and maintenance 
-- 100 
100 
(1) 
= includes gross number of beneficiaries 
–
an individual may benefit from more than one subproject 
(2)    = AGECABO means
 
Agência CaboVerdiana para Emprego e Desenvolvimento Local
 
