Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3224 CV
Development Credit Agreement
(Social Sector Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 3, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3224 CV 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 3,1999, between REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;  
WHEREAS the Association has received a letter dated April 14, 1999, from the 
Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
implement its national poverty alleviation program (the Program) and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), with the modifications set forth below, (the General Conditions) constitute an 
Page  2
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15): 
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution 
No. 183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Annual Reviews” means the annual reviews referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(b)
“Beneficiaries” means municipal committees, local communities or 
organizations determined to be eligible for a Subproject Grant (as hereinafter 
defined) in accordance with the eligibility criteria specified in Section II of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the PIP and to whom or for whose benefit a 
Subproject Grant is made or proposed to be made; 
(c)
“BCV” means Banco de Cabo Verde, the Borrower’s Central Bank, established 
by the Borrower’s Decree-Law (Decreto-Lei) No. 42/93, dated July 15, 1993; 
(d)
“Convention” or “Conventions” mean the agreement(s), in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into by the Borrower and the 
Project Implementation Agencies (as hereinafter defined) pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) 
of this Agreement and Schedule 6 to this Agreement, setting forth the terms and 
conditions related to the execution of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and agreements 
supplemental to the Convention;
(e)
“Cape Verde Escudo” and “C.V. Esc.” mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(f)
“FAIMO” means Frente de Alta Intensidade de Mão de Obra, the labor 
intensive public works program of the Borrower; 
(g)
“Initial Deposit” means an amount in C.V. Esc. equivalent to US$40,000, 
referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
(h)
“Midterm Review” means the midterm review referred to in paragraph 4 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(i)
“Subproject” means an activity financed or to be financed in part out of 
the proceeds of the Credit under Part A.1 of the Project;  
(j)
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Project Implementation Agencies to Beneficiaries for the purpose of financing a 
Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project;  
(k)
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means an agreement between the Project 
Implementation Agencies and Beneficiaries setting forth the terms and conditions under 
Page  3
which a Subproject Grant shall be made available to the Beneficiaries for the purpose 
of financing a Subproject under Part A.1 of the Project;
(l)
“NGO” means a nongovernmental organization; 
(m)
“NPAP” means the Borrower’s national poverty alleviation program; 
(n)
“OVPM” means the Borrower’s Office of the Vice Prime Minister; 
(o)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit within OVPM which will be 
responsible for the overall coordination of the Project, established and operating 
under the Borrower’s Decree No. 40-B/98 dated August 27, 1998 and referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(p)
“Project Account” means the account referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of 
this Agreement; 
(q)
“Project Implementation Plan” or “PIP” means the Project implementation 
plan, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, referred to in paragraph 
2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, containing, inter alia, work plans, monitoring and 
performance indicators, as well as the terms and conditions under which the Borrower 
will enter into Conventions with Project Implementation Agencies and outlining the 
procurement, disbursement, administrative, financial and other arrangements for the 
implementation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time in 
consultation with the Association, and such term includes any schedules to the PIP;
(r)
“Project Implementation Agencies” means any agencies to which the 
Borrower will entrust the execution of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project, pursuant to a 
Convention; 
(s)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; 
(t)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a letter agreement between the 
Borrower and the Association, dated October 17, 1997 and countersigned by the Borrower 
on October 31, 1997; and 
(u)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eleven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 11,900,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
(i) expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect 
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit; and 
(ii) amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be paid) by the Project 
Implementation Agencies on account of withdrawals made for the benefit of any 
Beneficiaries under Subproject Grant Agreements to meet the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for Subprojects under Part A.1 of the Project, and in 
respect of which the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in BCV on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
Page  4
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2003, or such later date as 
the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue (i) from the date sixty days after the 
date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid (i) at such places as the Association 
shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the 
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible 
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to 
the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each March 15 and September 15, commencing September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 
2039. Each installment to, and including the installment payable on, March 15, 2019 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  5
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, environmental, economic and management practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower 
through the Project Implementation Agencies and, to that end, the Borrower shall, 
without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this 
Agreement, cause the Project Implementation Agencies to perform, in accordance with 
the provisions of the PIP and Conventions, all the obligations of the Project 
Implementation Agencies therein set forth, take and cause to be taken all action, 
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary 
or appropriate to enable the Project Implementation Agencies to perform such 
obligations; and shall not take or cause to be taken any action which would prevent or 
interfere with such performance of the Project Implementation Agencies.
(c)
the  Borrower shall enter into Conventions with the Project 
Implementation Agencies, under which it shall make the proceeds of the Credit 
allocated from time to time to Categories (1) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, available to the Project Implementation Agencies on a 
non-reimbursable basis for the purposes of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project under 
terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association. 
(d)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights and perform its obligations under 
the Conventions in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Conventions or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in C.V. Esc. in BCV on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
promptly thereafter, deposit the Initial Deposit into such account to 
finance the Borrower’s contribution to the Project;
(c)
deposit into the Project Account, until the completion of the Project, 
such amounts as shall be required to replenish in a timely manner the Project Account 
in an amount equal to at least the expected expenditures of the following quarter; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
the Project.
Page  6
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association technical audit 
reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, on the implementation 
of the Subprojects three months before each Annual Review.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, 
records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, the operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the 
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or 
any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; and
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
the report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure or Project Management 
Reports, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; and
(ii)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure or Project Management 
Reports submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of its financial management system for the Project 
in order to enable the Borrower, not later than July 1, 2001, or such later date as 
the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project Management Reports 
acceptable to the Association, each of which: 
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
Page  7
report; and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter, a Project Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association 
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that, as a result of events which have 
occurred after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary 
situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program or a 
significant part thereof will be carried out.  
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has selected at least one Project Implementation Agency, 
satisfactory to the Association, to carry out Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project during 
the first year of implementation of the Project and has entered into a Convention, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association, with such Project Implementation 
Agency; 
(b)
the Borrower has adopted the PIP, in form and substance satisfactory to 
the Association;
(c)
the Borrower has established a computerized accounting and financial 
management system in the PCU, satisfactory to the Association; 
(d)
the Borrower has appointed the independent auditors referred to in 
Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(e)
the Project Account has been opened and the Initial Deposit referred to 
in Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement has been deposited therein; and 
(f)
the PCU has been established in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Page  8
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time responsible for finance 
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of 
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Office of the Vice Prime Minister
C.P. 30
Praia, Cabo Verde
Cable address: 
Telex:
608 MCECV
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, DC
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF CAPE VERDE
By /s/ Amilcar Spencer Lopes 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subprojects
  8,330,000
90%
(2)
Goods
     80,000
100% of foreign
Page  9
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
  1,630,000
100%
(4)
Training
    370,000
90%
(5)
Operating Costs
     80,000
90%
(6)
Refunding of
    670,000
Amount due pursuant
Project Preparation
to Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
(7)
Unallocated
    740,000
TOTAL
 11,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “operating costs” means the incremental operating costs incurred 
on account of Project implementation, including office supplies and equipment, rental 
of office space, vehicle operation and maintenance, communication and travel costs, 
but excluding salaries of members of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
 
(b)
a Subproject Grant unless such Subproject Grant has been made in 
accordance with the criteria and procedures and under the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the PIP.  
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (i) goods and works under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (ii) consultants’ services 
(firms) under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and (iii) consultants’ 
services (individuals) under contracts not exceeding $50,000 equivalent, all under 
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to (a) alleviate 
poverty through the creation of employment opportunities; (b) strengthen its 
institutional capacity to coordinate, monitor and evaluate the NPAP; and (c) 
strengthen the capacities of municipalities, local communities, and NGOs in planning, 
implementing, and monitoring cost-effective poverty alleviation interventions.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Public Works and Employment Creation 
1.
Carrying out and monitoring by the Project Implementation Agencies of 
Subprojects, for the construction and rehabilitation of infrastructure and public 
Page  10
facilities, and community activities submitted by Beneficiaries. 
2.
Strengthening of the capacity of the Project Implementation Agencies to 
implement Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project, through the provision of training of its 
personnel, studies, and technical advisory services. 
3.
Design and implementation of a communications program to strengthen the Project 
Implementation Agencies’ capacity to communicate information about the Program to the 
public.  
4.
Provision of training and technical advisory services to assist local small 
entrepreneurs, FAIMO workers, municipal workers, and NGOs to improve their contract 
management skills. 
Part B:
Institutional Capacity Building and Monitoring and Evaluation 
1.
Strengthening of the capacity of the PCU to coordinate, supervise, and monitor 
the execution of the Project, through the provision of training of its personnel, 
studies, technical advisory services, and the acquisition of equipment. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the Borrower to undertake poverty monitoring and 
analysis activities through the provision of technical advisory services and training.  
3.
Establishment of an independent and external monitoring and evaluation system to 
monitor the performance of the Project Implementing Agencies and overall Project 
implementation, as well as the implementation of the Subprojects, and the design of a 
program to overcome any constraints encountered during the implementation of the 
Project, through the provision of technical advisory services.  
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2003.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and 
September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the following 
Parts of this Section I. 
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and "member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and "Participating Country.”
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
Grouping of Contracts To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and works shall 
be grouped, respectively, in bid packages estimated to cost $5,000 (goods) and $50,000 
(works) equivalent or more each.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
Page  11
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $300,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $10,300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $10,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works under Part A of the Project estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $2,600,000 equivalent, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from at least three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a 
written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Association, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract 
successfully.  Pre-qualification shall be widely advertised in the local press (all 
islands) and updated every six months.  Qualification criteria, scope of works to be 
completed during the next twelve months and their location, shall be made known to all 
candidates.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or 
more for goods and works, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications set forth in 
paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines); and (b) the provisions of the 
following Parts of this Section II. 
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country.”
Page  12
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-Based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The shortlist of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-Cost Selection
Services for audits of the Project may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.   
2.
Single-Source Selection
Services for small assignments (e.g., land surveys) which are estimated to cost 
less than $5,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed 
$200,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
3.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for studies and construction supervision estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.  The Project Implementation 
Agencies will maintain and update a list of qualified firms following advertisement in 
order to obtain expressions of interest, as described in the PIP. 
4.
Individual Consultants Services for lectures and small studies which do not 
require team work, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $180,000 equivalent, shall 
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultant 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
Page  13
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Section I:
General 
1.
PCU
(a)
The Borrower shall maintain the PCU, in a form and with functions 
satisfactory to the Association, until the completion of the Project.
(b)
The PCU shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, a project 
coordinator and competent staff in adequate numbers, all with terms of reference, 
qualifications, and experience acceptable to the Association, and an accountant who 
shall be employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.  The project coordinator shall be responsible for the supervision and 
coordination of the day-to-day management of the Project.  The accountant shall, inter 
alia, assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the obligations set forth in Section 
4.01 (a) of this Agreement. 
2.
PIP
The Borrower shall carry out the Project and cause the Project Implementation 
Agencies to carry out Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project in accordance with procedures 
set out in the PIP and the Conventions and, except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, shall not amend or waive any provision thereof, if such amendment or waiver 
may, in the opinion of the Association, materially or adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project. 
3.
Project Implementation Agencies 
The Project Implementation Agencies shall maintain, until the completion of the 
Project, competent staff in adequate numbers, all with terms of reference, 
qualifications, and experience acceptable to the Association, including (i) a director 
general; (ii) an administrative director; and (iii) a technical director who shall be 
employed in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
4.
Performance Indicators, Annual Reviews and Midterm Review
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the performance indicators agreed 
upon between the Borrower and the Association, the carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
carry out, jointly with the Association and the Project Implementation 
Agencies, (i) not later than September 30, 2000 and September 30, 2003, the Annual 
Reviews; and (ii) not later than September 30, 2001, the Midterm Review. The Annual 
Reviews and the Midterm Review shall cover, among other things (A) progress made in 
meeting the Project’s objectives; and (B) overall Project performance as measured 
against Project performance indicators;
(c)
The Borrower shall, at least three (3) weeks prior to the Annual Reviews 
and the Midterm Review, furnish to the Association a report describing the status of 
the items listed in paragraph (a) above and of Project implementation generally; and
(d)
The Borrower shall, not later than four (4) weeks after the Annual 
Reviews and the Midterm Review, prepare an action program, acceptable to the 
Page  14
Association, for further implementation of the Project having regard to the findings 
of the Annual Reviews and the Midterm Review and, thereafter, implement such action 
program.
Section II:
Part A.1 of the Project/Subprojects 
1.
Eligibility Criteria for Subprojects
No Subproject shall be eligible for financing out of the proceeds of this Credit 
unless the Project Implementation Agency has determined, on the basis of an appraisal 
conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the PIP, that the Subproject 
satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the PIP, including, in particular, the 
following: 
(a)
the Subprojects shall be for basic infrastructure services and public 
facilities (including water supply, small roads, sanitation systems, rehabilitation of 
schools, health centers, and markets), as well as community demand-driven, small-scale 
social infrastructure, including training of NGOs, communities, and municipalities in 
participatory approaches, microproject preparation, and management; 
(b)
the Subproject shall be initiated by Beneficiaries; 
(c)
the Subproject shall be targeted at lower income group Beneficiaries; 
(d)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its mode of 
implementation is labor-intensive and provides maximum employment opportunities within 
sound economic parameters;
(e)
the Subproject shall be designed in such a way that its operation and 
maintenance shall be sustainable; and 
(f)
the Subproject shall be in compliance with the standards set forth in the 
applicable laws of the Borrower, relating to health, safety, and environmental 
protection, as well as the Association’s applicable guidelines. 
2.
Terms and Conditions Regarding Subprojects
Subprojects shall be carried out pursuant to Subproject Grant Agreements, to be 
concluded between the Project Implementation Agencies and the legally established and 
authorized representative or representatives of the Beneficiaries, under terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, which, inter alia, shall include the 
following:
(a)
financing by the Project Implementation Agencies on a grant basis, except 
that all Beneficiaries shall make a contribution as provided for in the PIP;
(b)
the obligation to (i) carry out the Subproject in accordance with the 
PIP, with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, 
financial, environmental, and managerial standards; and (ii) maintain adequate records 
to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources, 
and expenditures in respect of the Subproject;
(c)
the requirement that: (i) the goods, works, and services to be financed 
from the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the procedures 
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works, and services 
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the Subproject;
(d)
the right of the Project Implementation Agencies to inspect by 
themselves, or jointly with the Association, if the Association shall so request, the 
goods, works, sites, plants, and construction included in the Subproject, the 
operations thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
(e)
the right of the Project Implementation Agencies to obtain all 
information as the Project Implementation Agencies or the Association shall reasonably 
request regarding the administration, operation, and financial condition of the 
Subproject; and
Page  15
(f)
the right of the Project Implementation Agencies to suspend or terminate 
the right of the Beneficiaries to use the proceeds of the Credit for the Subproject 
upon the failure by the Beneficiaries to perform any of their obligations under the 
relevant agreement.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $500,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
Page  16
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b), and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Terms and Conditions of Conventions Required  
Pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement
The terms and conditions of the Conventions shall include, inter alia, the 
following obligations of the Project Implementation Agencies to: 
(a)
carry out Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering 
practices, with due regard to environmental factors, and in accordance with the PIP; 
and provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the facilities, services, 
and other resources required for Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project;
(b)
comply with the procedures for the procurement of goods and works set 
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement; 
(c)
comply with record keeping, auditing and report requirements set forth in 
Section 4.01 of this Agreement, with respect to Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project, 
including the annual auditing of its accounts and financial statements (balance 
Page  17
sheets, statements of income and expenses, and related statements); 
(d) 
carry out its operations and conduct its affairs in accordance with sound 
administrative, financial, environmental, and engineering practices; 
(e)
take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision 
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts 
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(f) 
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 
9.07, and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the Project; 
(g)
participate in the Midterm Review related to the carrying out of Parts 
A.1 and A.4 of the Project, and thereafter prepare and implement an action plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the further implementation of Parts A.1 and A.4 
of the Project; 
(h)
at the request of the Borrower or the Association, exchange views with 
the Borrower and the Association with regard to the progress of Parts A.1 and A.4 of 
the Project and the performance of its obligations under the Conventions, 
(i)
promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Parts A.1 and A.4 of the 
Project, or the performance by the Project Implementation Agencies of their 
obligations under the Conventions; and
(j)
except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, neither 
take nor concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, 
assigning or waiving the Conventions or any provision thereof. 
