                      Document of
                   The World Bank


                                              Report No: 63763-LC




                RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                        ON A


                PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                           OF
OECS (SAINT LUCIA) SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT
                     CREDIT 4300-SLU
         APPROVED BY THE BOARD ON MAY 8, 2007


                         TO

                     SAINT LUCIA

                   DECEMBER 5, 2011
                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CXC    Caribbean Examinations Council
CVQ    Caribbean Vocational Qualifications
ICT    Information Communications Technology
MIS    Management Information Systems
NVQ    National Vocational Qualifications
NSDC   National Skills Development Center
OECS   Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PDO    Project Development Objective
QA     Quality Assurance
SDR    Special Drawing Rights
TVET   Technical and Vocational Education and Training




           Regional Vice President:     Pamela Cox
                 Country Director:      Françoise Clottes
                   Sector Director:     Keith Hansen
                  Sector Manager:       Chingboon Lee
                    Sector Leader:      David Warren
                Task Team Leader:       Angela Demas




                                        ii
Restructuring                                                                             Status: Draft
Restructuring Type: Level two
Last modified on date : 12/05/2011

1. Basic Information
Project ID & Name                               P097141: OECS (St Lucia) Skills for Inclusive Growth
Country                                         St. Lucia
Task Team Leader                                Angela Demas
Sector Manager/Director                         Chingboon Lee
Country Director                                Françoise Clottes
Original Board Approval Date                    05/08/2007
Original Closing Date:                          03/15/2012
Current Closing Date                            03/15/2012
Proposed Closing Date [if applicable]           09/15/2013
EA Category                                     C-Not Required
Revised EA Category
EA Completion Date
Revised EA Completion Date


2. Revised Financing Plan (US$m)
Source                                                     Original                     Revised
BORR                                                          0.87                        0.87
IDA                                                           3.50                        3.50
Private Sector                                                0.95                        0.00
Total                                                         5.32                        4.37


3. Borrower
          Organization                               Department                          Location
Saint Lucia                             Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs   St. Lucia
                                        and National Development


4. Implementing Agency
          Organization                              Department                           Location
Ministry of Education and Culture                                               St. Lucia




                                                     iii
5. Disbursement Estimates (US$m)
Actual amount disbursed as of 10/16/2011                                                           1.99
         Fiscal Year                              Annual                             Cumulative
2012                                                          0.10                                 2.00
2013                                                          0.75                                 2.75
2014                                                          0.75                                 3.50
                                                          Total                                    3.50


6. Policy Exceptions and Safeguard Policies
Does the restructured project require any exceptions to Bank policies?                                 N

Does the restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies? If yes, please select from           N
the checklist below and update ISDS accordingly before submitting the package.



7a. Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
Original/Current Project Development Objectives/Outcomes
The objective of the first phase (operation) of the APL is to assist the Government of St. Lucia to increase
the employability of youth through private-sector driven training. This objective will be pursued through
three means: (i) establishment of a competitive training scheme that finances private sector-driven training
and traineeships, (ii) development of an improved policy framework for delivering training by enhancing
OECS collaboration in training and introducing occupational standards to increase quality and value of
training, and (iii) strengthening institutional capacity to better implement, monitor, and plan training.




                                                     iv
                                      SAINT LUCIA
                OECS (SAINT LUCIA) SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT

                                                               CONTENTS

                                                                                                                                        Page
SUMMARY ................................................................................................................................. 1
PROJECT STATUS .................................................................................................................. 1
PROPOSED CHANGES .......................................................................................................... 3
APPRAISAL SUMMARY ....................................................................................................... 7
ANNEX 1: RESULTS FRAMEWORK AND MONITORING....................................... 9




                                                                        v
        OECS (SAINT LUCIA) SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT


                                   RESTRUCTING PAPER

SUMMARY

1. The Level Two restructuring of the OECS (St. Lucia) Skills for Inclusive Growth Project,
   Credit 4300-SLU, P097141 (the Project) has been proposed in response to the economic
   downturn which has affected the pace of implementation of the demand-driven, private
   sector-oriented training under the Project. The restructuring includes (a) changes to the scope
   of activities; (b) revisions to Project financing; (c) an update of the Results Framework; and
   (d) an extension of the closing date. In summary, the changes entail the following:

       a. Changes to the scope of activities.

               •   a reduction in the number of trainees to be better aligned to market absorption
                   capacity;
               •   a widening of the eligibility criteria for trainees by expanding the age range
                   and number of CXC passes. This will allow the project to continue targeting
                   disadvantaged youth but also improve the pool of applicants and increase the
                   relevance to the current labor market situation;
               •   an elimination of the monetary contribution of employers to the training
                   scheme in order to offset the economic downturn and encourage their
                   participation;
               •   a shift in resources from training to building and sustaining the policy
                   framework for competency-based training and quality assurance.

       b. Revisions to Project Financing. Changes include a reduction in Project costs by
          eliminating Private Sector financing and a reallocation of proceeds in accordance
          with the changes to the scope of activities. Resources will be reallocated from
          Category 2 to Category 1.

       c. Update of the Results Framework. Changes include revision of the targets to
          reflect the changes in scope of activities as a result of the economic downturn.

       d. Extension of the closing date. Extension of the closing date by 18 months from
          March 15, 2012 to September 15, 2013 to allow sufficient time for additional cohorts
          to complete training, to fully establish the quality assurance framework, and to
          disseminate lessons from project experience on building a competency-based
          framework and the demand driven training model.

PROJECT STATUS

2. The Project was approved by the Board on May 8, 2007 and became effective on December
   19, 2007. The objective of the Project is to assist the Government of St. Lucia to increase the
   employability of youth through private-sector driven training. This objective is pursued
   through: (i) establishment of a competitive training scheme that finances private sector-
                                                1
   driven training and traineeships; (ii) development of an improved policy framework for
   delivering training by enhancing OECS collaboration in training and introducing
   occupational standards to increase quality and value of training; and (iii) strengthening
   institutional capacity to better implement, monitor, and plan training. It has three interlinked
   components: (i) Skills training for unemployed youth; (ii) Improving the policy framework
   for training; and (iii) Project management and institutional strengthening.

3. The project experienced significant delays in setting the foundations to begin the training,
   partly due to reliance on one source for receiving regional standards and technical assistance
   and partly due to the economic downturn. Despite the early delays, implementation progress
   has been improving over the last year with the successful implementation of a number of
   activities.

4. Under Component 1, the Project has supported the launching, evaluation, and completion of
   the first and second call for training proposals. The Project team and stakeholders have
   overcome a learning curve that was expected with the first round of training as they became
   acclimated to competency-based training that is driven by skills needed in the marketplace.
   The first round of training began in August 2010, enrolling 136 trainees in seven courses in
   two key sectors (Hospitality and Tourism, Construction). Trainees completed the three-stage
   training (life skills, technical coursework and traineeship) over approximately 9-10 months.
   There was a substantial increase in training course applications for the second call for
   training proposals indicating that training providers and employers have gained familiarity
   with competency-based standards and the demand driven approach. Twenty-two courses
   have been approved for the second round of training which has expanded to all four sectors
   supported under the Project (Hospitality and Tourism, Construction, Agriculture and
   Information Communications Technology (ICT)) with the potential to benefit over 300
   youth, once all courses are fully underway. Training began in August 2011 for some courses
   and others are mobilizing to start.

5. While the pace of implementation has improved, the global economic downturn has
   negatively impacted on the demand-driven training scheme by significantly impeding
   employers’ ability to contribute to the cost of training and the traineeship stipend.
   Consultations with employers revealed that they have been experiencing difficulties in
   predicting labor needs and in meeting the financial obligation to co-finance training costs
   during the in-class training (5-10 percent cost share) and to provide the stipends for trainees
   during the traineeship. Despite their strong support for the objective and design of the
   Project, many of the employers withdrew their commitment to the training scheme when they
   had to lay off regular employees and business decreased especially in the construction and
   hospitality and tourism sectors. This has presented training providers with difficulties
   securing commitments from employers to take trainees for a 3–4 month traineeship, an
   essential part of the training program

6. Under Component 2, the Government has implemented essential prerequisite activities to
   meet the Development Objective of the project. These activities have laid a foundation for
   executing the skills training and further developing the policy framework for competency-
   based training and building capacity for assessment, certification, and quality assurance.
   Early on, implementation of this component was hindered by a delay in obtaining the

                                                2
   regional standards for vetting. This has been overcome, and there have been a number of
   achievements under this component: (i) the establishment of 12 Industry Advisory Groups;
   (ii) validation of 73 occupational or competency-based standards in the four key sectors; (iii)
   pre-qualification of 44 Training Providers; (iv) sensitization and mobilization of all
   stakeholders including employers, training providers and youth; (v) training of assessors that
   assess and certify competencies; and (vi) preparation of first drafts of key Quality Assurance
   (QA) documents to establish the QA framework.

7. Under Component 3, the Government has taken steps to strengthen institutional capacity to
   implement and monitor the Project through the hiring of personnel and developing the
   requirements of the Management Information System (MIS). It is working collaboratively
   with Grenada to construct a unified MIS, accessible by the main stakeholders, for the projects
   that are part of the OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Program.

8. While the pace of implementation has improved, the restructuring provides remedies to the
   effects of the economic downturn on employers and also shifts support to building and
   sustaining the policy framework for training.

PROPOSED CHANGES

Components

9. To address the changing economic context and the decline in demand for workers,
   Component 1 has been reduced in scope and more emphasis has been placed on Component
   2.

10. Under Component 1, there are three main changes: (i) scale back of the volume of training,
    (ii) expansion of the eligibility criteria for trainees, and (iii) provision of incentives for
    employers.

   •   Scale back of the volume of training. Given the slow recovery of the economy in the
       OECS sub-region, the demand for employees may not increase during the life of the
       project. Since the diminished demand for workers and lesser quantity of job vacancies
       has affected the numbers of youth that can be trained and absorbed into the market, the
       volume of training has been reduced.

   •   Expansion of the eligibility criteria for trainees. The Project originally targeted
       unemployed youth ages 17 to 30 with less than three Caribbean Examinations Council
       (CXC) passes. Given the widespread unemployment, the criteria for the target population
       has been expanded to those aged 16 to 40 with less than four CXC passes to refocus the
       targeted at-risk population.

   •   Provision of incentives for employers. In order to offset the economic downturn and
       encourage employers to participate in the training scheme, this restructuring eliminates
       the employers’ financial obligation to contribute to the upfront skills training (5-10
       percent contribution) and the stipend during the traineeship, both of which will now be
       covered by the Credit as described in the financing section of this restructuring paper.

                                                3
11. Through the restructuring, Component 2 has been fortified to increase the Project’s emphasis
    on strengthening the policy framework for competency-based training which includes
    building capacity for assessment, certification, and quality assurance. It is critical that the
    policy framework for competency based training be well developed by the time the economy
    recovers in order to be prepared for the increased demand for skilled workers and respond to
    market needs. A concentration of efforts on building the policy framework for competency-
    based training also will strengthen St. Lucia’s capacity to assess current workers’ skills
    (assessment of prior learning) and award certification for levels 1-3 to those already working
    in the four key sectors (Hospitality and Tourism, Construction, Agriculture and ICT).
    Additional funds will allow for:
        • vetting of more standards at Level 1 and higher to continue building the policy
            framework and allow for more courses and more persons to be assessed and certified
            in a variety of skill areas that are in demand;
        • further building the Ministry of Education and Culture’s capacity for training quality
            assurance;
        • more capacity building to training providers; and
        • procuring selected equipment to improve training facilities and capacity to deliver
            competency-based skills training.

Results Indicators

12. The PDO is still relevant and has not been changed. Targets, however for both the PDO
    Level Results Indicator and the Intermediate Results Indicators have been revised as a result
    of the downturn in the economy and reflect: (i) the scaling back of Component 1; (ii)
    strengthening of Component 2; and (iii) an extended implementation period. The number of
    youth to be trained under the Project has been reduced from 1,850 to 870 and targets for the
    corresponding indicators reflect this reduction. The changes to the Results Framework are
    summarized in Annex 1.

13. PDO Level Results Indicator. This indicator originally stated that by the end of the project 75
    percent of youth would be employed fifteen months after the start of the training. The
    revised end of project target is 65 percent.

14. Intermediate Results Indicators. Of the nine original Intermediate Results Indicators, one has
    been dropped and replaced with a new indicator; two have been revised, and the remaining
    six have continued but with revised targets.

   •   The dropped Intermediate Results Indicator is:

           Action plan for the inclusion of vulnerable groups in the economy, since the project is
           already well targeted to this population.

   •   The new Intermediate Results Indicator is:

           Number of standards vetted. This indicator has been added to better monitor the
           increased number of standards that are to be vetted under the strengthened
           Component 2.

                                                4
   •   Two Intermediate Results Indicators were revised in order to:

        (i) recognize award of National Vocational Qualifications (NVQ) and International
            certifications in addition to Caribbean Vocational Qualifications (CVQ):

            Original Indicator: Number of CVQs awarded. End of Project target: 1,265.

            Revised Indicator: Number of NVQ/CVQ or International certifications awarded.
            End of Project target: 407.

        (ii) eliminate one of the studies under the action plan to improve the relevance and
             sustainability of training since it will be partially covered by the labor market needs
             assessment:

            Original Indicator: Action plan to improve the relevance and sustainability of
            training a) Study for Career Mobility, b) Labor market needs assessment, and c)
            Future financing of training.

            Revised Indicator: Action plan to improve the relevance and sustainability of
            training a) Study for Career Mobility, b) Labor market needs assessment.

   •   Six intermediate results indicators have the following revised targets:

       o The target number of youth to be trained under the Project has been reduced from
         1,850 to 870.
       o The end-of-Project target percentage of enrolled youth that are expected to become
         certified one year after the start of the training has been reduced from 71 percent to 65
         percent.
       o The percentages of enrolled youth in training in other sectors than hospitality have
         been modified to reflect the additional 18 months of the project. The end of project
         target remains the same at 30 percent.
       o The target number of pre-qualified or accredited training providers has been increased
         from 35 to 65.
       o The National Qualifications register is expected to be in operation in 2012 rather than
         2009.
       o The percentage of the above results indicators and of additional implementation
         indicators reported on a yearly basis by the NSDC is expected to be 100 percent only
         by the end of the Project instead of from the start.

Financing

15. Project Costs. The revised Project cost is US$4.373 million compared to the original of
    US$5.321 million. The cost of Component 1, of which 70 percent was directly related to
    delivering skills training, has decreased largely due to the reduction in number of trainees.
    The unit cost of training is fixed and is not affected by the reduction in numbers of trainees.
    The cost of Component 2 has increased to reflect the stronger focus of the Project on
    strengthening and sustaining the policy framework for training. See table below.
                                                 5
                                 Project Costs (US$m.)
                                  Original                                 Revised
     Component         Private Govt    IDA      Total Private            Govt IDA           Total
                       Sector                          Sector
1. Skills training for 0.948   0.676    1.931 3.555     0.0              0.676    1.701     2.377
   unemployed
   youth
2. Improving the                        0.843 0.843                               1.073     1.073
   policy
   framework for
   training
3. Project                     0.198    0.725 0.923                      0.198    0.725     0.923
   management and
   institutional
   strengthening
Total Project Cost      0.948  0.874    3.499 5.321     0.0              0.874    3.499     4.373

•   Financing Plan. The original financing plan included the contribution of US$950,000 by the
    private sector, in the form of co-financing of the training scheme (5-10% depending on the
    size of the company) and the trainee’s stipend during the traineeship. This figure was based
    on a target of 1,850 trainees which has now been reduced to 870 trainees. The restructuring
    has eliminated the contribution by the private sector which is now covered by the Credit for
    the remaining cohorts of trainees, about 734 trainees. The Government covered the private
    sector contribution for the first cohort of trainees.

•   Disbursement arrangements and reallocation among Categories. The Financing Agreement
    originally included a disbursement condition (under Category 2(b)) related to the
    achievement of certain milestones. It also factored in the option to reallocate the funds
    initially allocated to Category 2(b) to Category 2(a), in the event that the specific milestones
    were not achieved. The project milestones were not reached by the date of September 15,
    2009, given that no training had taken place by that date. The revision to disbursement
    Category 2 eliminates the second allocation of the Unit Cost of Training (Category 2(b)) and
    transfers the funds to the first allocation, Category 2(a). Category 2(a) now has one allocation
    for disbursement at 75 percent of expenditures to be financed. As a result of the reduction in
    the number of trainees, an amount of 386,000 SDR (equivalent to US$606,020) has also been
    reallocated to Category 1 from Category 2 (a). See the table below.




                                                 6
         Category of Expenditure                          Allocation (SDR)*              % of Financing
        Current            Revised                       Original     Revised          Original  Revised
(1) Goods, works,           (1) Goods, works,           1,582,000       1,968,000        100%            100%
consultants’ services       consultants’ services,
and Operating Costs         Non-consultant
for the Project (except     services, and
as covered                  Operating Costs for
by Category (2)             the Project (except as
below)                      covered by Category
                            (2) below) and
                            Stipend to Trainees
(2) Unit Cost of            (2) Unit Cost of
Training**                  Training
(a) first allocation                                     283,800         432,000         67.5%       67.5% up to
                                                                                                     SDR64,735;
                                                                                                         75%
                                                                                                      thereafter
(b) second allocation                                    534,200                         77.5%
TOTAL AMOUNT                TOTAL AMOUNT               2,400,000        2,400,000
* Currency is shown in SDR. 1.00 SDR = 1.57 USD
** “Unit Cost of Training? means the cost of services provided by training providers during the course of pre-
service training and on-the-job traineeship, including the value of the stipends paid to the Trainee during pre-
service training.

Closing date.

•   The closing date is being extended by 18 months from March 15, 2012 to September 15,
    2013. This allows sufficient time for at least two more cohorts of trainees to complete a full
    course of training including the traineeship, to fully establish the quality assurance
    framework, and to disseminate lessons from Project experience on building a competency-
    based, demand driven training model.

APPRAISAL SUMMARY

16. Economic analysis. This analysis updates the Cost Benefit Analysis presented in the Project
    Appraisal Document of April 5, 2007. It incorporates the unit cost structure under the current
    restructuring proposal of EC$4,230. This analysis presents the IRR of the Project for different
    combinations of changes in employment and in salaries likely to occur as result of the
    Project. Initial information on Project outcomes, an increase in employment probability of
    seven percent, provides for a strong IRR.

17. The cost benefit analysis assumes two types of costs of training: (i) direct cost of training to
    the Government (comprising a payment to training providers of EC$1,650 per trainee and
    direct payment to trainers of EC$2,400), and (ii) direct costs to trainees for the duration of
    the traineeship. The cost structure per trainee is presented in the table below.




                                                          7
                                                            Cost Structure Per Trainee
              Item                                                                             Cost (EC$)
              Direct cost of the training to Government
                 Payment to trainers (A)                                                              1,650
                 Payment to trainees (B)                                                              2,400
              Direct cost of the training to trainees
                Opportunity cost (C )                                                                 4,980
                Opportunity cost adjusted by payment (D=C-B)                                          2,580

              Total cost (A+D)                                                                        4,230

18. It is expected that the training will improve the probability of being employed and the
    salaries of the trainees once employed, though there is uncertainty on the exact magnitude of
    improvements. The magnitude of each of these effects will depend on the quality and the
    relevance of the program, and the evolution of the economy. The combination of both
    variables will determine the expected salary gain and the expected IRR of the Project. The
    solid lines in the figure below represent combinations of change in employment probability
    and salary that generate the same rate of return to the Project. For example, a Project
    outcome, in terms of IRR, that changes the employment probability by two percent and does
    not change the salary, is similar to a project outcome that increases the salary by five percent
    and does not change the employment probability.

                                                  Project's IRR by Combinations of Impact on Probability of
                                                                   Employment and Salaries
                                                 20%
                  Change in Salary (% Change)




                                                IRR=5%               IRR=12%                    IRR=23%
                                                 15%
                                                IRR<0                                                   B
                                                 10%
                                                IRR<0
                                                  5%
                                                                                                              A
                                                  0%
                                -2%                    0%            2%            4%            6%               8%
                                                       Change in Probability of Employment (% Points)


19. Initial information on Project implementation has reduced the uncertainty of Project
    outcomes and informs the profitability of the Project. There has been an initial increase in the
    probability of employment of seven percent to the benchmark considered in the original
    Project Appraisal Document (PAD), though there is no information on change in salary yet.
    A seven percent increase in probability of employment is represented by the dashed line in
    the figure above. A seven percent change in employment provides for a strong IRR. In the
    case of: (i) no change in salaries, the IRR of the Project would be nine percent, (ii) increase
    in salaries of 2.5 percent, the IRR of the Project would be 12 percent (Point A in the figure
    above), and (iii) increase in salaries of 12.5 percent, the IRR of the Project would be 23
    percent (Point B in the figure above).
                                                                          8
                                                                ANNEX 1
                                                     Results Framework and Monitoring
                                ST. LUCIA: OECS (SAINT LUCIA) SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT

Project Development Objective (PDO): to assist the Government of St. Lucia to increase the employability of youth through private sector-driven training
                                  Core      D=Dropped        Baseline                       Cumulative Target Values                       Frequency         Data        Responsibility
                                            C=Continue        (2007)                                                                                     Source/Method     for Data
                                            d                                  YR 1       YR 2    YR3        YR 4      YR 5      YR 6                        ology        Collection
                                            N= New                            (2008)     (2009) (2010) (2011) (2012) (2013)
                                              R=Revised
                                                          UoM Value
                                                                            PDO Level Results Indicators

Percentage of youth employed                  C             %       0         0            0      0        60        62       65        Semi-         Follow-            NSDC
fifteen months after the start of                                                                                                       annually      up/tracking of
the training                                                                                                                                          trainees and
                                                                                                                                                      comparable
                                                                                                                                                      group of non-
                                                                                                                                                      trainees
                                                                                  Intermediate Results

Intermediate Result (Component one): To increase levels of training among unemployed youth through the establishment of a competitive training scheme that finances
private sector-driven training and traineeships.
1. Number of unemployed                      C          # of     0      0       0       0        375      625     870       Semi-         Project          NSDC
                                                        youth                                                               annually      administration
youth enrolled in the training
                                                                                                                                                      documents
2. Percentage of enrolled youth             C              %      0  0       0         0        60       63      65     Semi-         Project            NSDC
                                                                                                                        annually      administration
that become certified one year
                                                                                                                                      documents
after the start of the training
3. Percentage of enrolled youth             C              %      0  0       0         13       15       25      30     Semi-         Project            NSDC
                                                                                                                        annually      administration
in training in other sectors than
                                                                                                                                      documents
hospitality
Intermediate Result (Component Two): To develop an improved policy framework for delivering training by enhancing OECS collaboration in training and introducing
occupational standards to increase quality and value of training.
4. Number of NVQ/CVQ or                     R              #      0  0       0         0        82       237     407**  Semi-         Project            NSDC / TVET
                                                                                                                        annually      administration     Unit
International certifications
                                                                                                                                      documents
awarded




                                                                                       9
                                     Core    D=Dropped          Baseline                     Cumulative Target Values                  Frequency         Data           Responsibility
                                             C=Continue          (2007)                                                                              Source/Method        for Data
                                             d                                 YR 1      YR 2      YR3      YR 4     YR 5     YR 6                       ology           Collection
                                             N= New                           (2008)    (2009)    (2010)   (2011)   (2012)   (2013)
                                             R=Revised
                                                            UoM      Value
5. Number of pre-qualified or                C              # of     0       0          35        48       55       60       65        Semi-         Project            NSDC
                                                            TPs                                                                        annually      administration
accredited training providers
                                                                                                                                                     documents

6. Number of Standards Vetted                N              #        0       0          0         0        65       75       85        Semi-         Project            TVET Unit
                                                                                                                                       annually      administration
                                                                                                                                                     documents
7. National Qualifications                   C              Yes/     0       No         No        No       No       Yes      Yes       Semi-         Project            NSDC
                                                            No                                                                         annually      administration
register in operation
                                                                                                                                                     documents

Action plan for the inclusion of         D              Yes/     No       No       No      No                                   N/A          N/A              N/A
                                                        No
vulnerable groups in the
economy
8. Action plan to improve the                           None/
                                         R              Done
relevance and sustainability of
training                                                       a)None a)None     a)Done
     a. Study for Career                                                                                                        One-time     Reports
                                                                                                                                delivery of                   PCU / NSDC
         Mobility
                                                               b)None b)None     b)None b)None b)None b)Done                    report
     b. Labor market needs
         assessment
     c. Future financing of                                    c)None c)None     c)None
         training
Result (Component Three): To strengthen institutional capacity to better implement, monitor and plan training through the strengthening of the Project implementing
agencies
9. Percentage of above                   C              %        0        0        0       25        50      75        100      Annually      Reports         NSDC
indicators and of additional
implementation indicators
reported on a yearly basis by
NSDC
** This figure does not include the last cohort. Including the last cohort that is expected to earn certification after the closing date of the Project, the total to become
certified at 65% would be 566 out of 870 enrolled.




                                                                                       10
