The World Bank                                                      1818 H Street N.W.        (202) 473-1000
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT               Washington, D.C. 20433    Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                               U.S.A.                    Cable Address: INDEVAS




                                                                                             December 5, 2011
                                                 CONFORMED COPY

            The Honorable Dr. Kenny D. Anthony
            Prime Minister and Minister of Finance
            Ministry of Finance
            Greaham Louisy Administrative Building
            Waterfront
            Castries
            Saint Lucia, West Indies


                 Re: Saint Lucia: OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project (Credit No. 4300 SLU)
                                       Amendment to the Financing Agreement


            Dear Prime Minister:

                     We refer to the Financing Agreement between Saint Lucia (the Recipient) and the
            International Development Association (the Association) dated June 21, 2007 (the Agreement).
            We also refer to your letter dated November 3, 2011, requesting for an amendment to the
            Agreement.

                   We are pleased to inform you that the Association concurs with your request and hereby
            amends the Agreement as follows:

            1.      Schedule 2: Sections II.1 (a) and (b) are deleted and replaced with the following:

                    “1.     The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
                            Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General
                            Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the Association. Each
                            Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
                            furnished to the Association not later than forty five days after the end of the
                            period covered by such report.?

            2.      Schedule 2: Section III.A.1 and Section III.B are amended to read as follows:

                    “1.     Goods, Non-consultants Services and Works. All goods, Non-consultants
                    Services and works required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
                    Financing shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
                    Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.?




                                          RCA 248423.   WUI 64145     FAX (202) 477-6391
                                                  2

“B.       Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-consultants Services and Works

          1.      International Competitive Bidding.         Except as otherwise provided in
          paragraph 2 below, goods, Non-consultants Services and works shall be procured under
          contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding.

          2.       Other Methods of Procurement of Goods, Non-consultants Services and
          Works. The following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than
          International Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods, Non-consultants
          Services and works. The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which
          such methods may be used:

           Procurement Method
           (a) National Competitive Bidding
           (b) Shopping
           (c) Direct Contracting?

3.      The table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is deleted and
replaced with the table set forth in the Attachment to this Letter.

4.     The Closing Date set forth in Section IV.B.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement shall be
September 15, 2013.

5.     A new definition of “Stipend to Trainees? is added under the table in Section IV A.2 of
Schedule 2 to the Agreement to read as follows:

          “(b)    “Stipend to Trainees? means the cost associated with per diem allowances and
                  transportation costs provided to Trainees during their traineeship.?

6.      A new definition of “Non-consultants services? is added (in its corresponding
alphabetical order) to the Appendix to the Agreement:

          “Non-consultant Services? means services which will be bid and contracted on the basis
          of performance of measurable physical outputs, such as the logistical service expenses for
          capacity building events, printing of training materials and media campaigns.?

          All other provisions of the Agreement, as amended herein, shall remain in full force and
effect.
                                                  3

        Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment to the Agreement on
behalf of the Recipient by countersigning and dating the two original copies of this letter and
returning one countersigned original to us. The amendments to the Agreement shall become
effective as of the date of countersignature of this letter.

                                           Sincerely,


                                    By /s/ Françoise Clottes
                                            Director
                              Caribbean Country Management Unit
                             Latin America and the Caribbean Region


CONFIRMED:

SAINT LUCIA


By:      /s/ Kenny D. Anthony
           Authorized Representative

Title:   Prime Minister and Minister of Finance

Date:    December 14, 2011
                                                4

                                                                               ATTACHMENT

        The table set forth in Section IV.A.2 of Schedule 2 to the Agreement is replaced with the
following:

                                      Amount of the Credit       Percentage of Expenditures
                                            Allocated                   to be Financed
             Category                  (expressed in SDR)            (inclusive of Taxes)

  (1) Goods, works, consultants’              1,968,000                      100%
  services, Non-consultant
  Services, Operating Costs for the
  Project (except as covered by
  Category (2) below) and Stipend
  to Trainees

  (2) Unit Cost of Training
                                               432,000             67.5% up to SDR 64,735;
                                                                        75% thereafter

  TOTAL AMOUNT                                2,400,000
