                                 Document of
                             The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR2874



         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                          (IDA-43000)



                                      ON A

                                  CREDIT

                   IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 2.4 MILLION

                  (US$3.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT) TO THE

                                ST. LUCIA

                                 FOR THE

             OECS SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROJECT

                 IN SUPPORT OF THE FIRST PHASE OF THE

            OECS SKILLS FOR INCLUSIVE GROWTH PROGRAM

                               March 14, 2014




Human Development Sector
Caribbean Country Management Unit
Latin American and Caribbean Region
                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective February 11, 2014)
                         Currency Unit = Eastern Caribbean Dollar
                               EC$2.7 = US$1.00
                              US$0.37 = EC$1.00

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                             January 1 – December 31

                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AAA       Analytical and Advisory Activities
AHLEI     American Hotel and Lodging Education Institute
APL       Adaptable Program Loan
CANTA     Caribbean Association of National Training Agencies
CARICOM   Caribbean Community
CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CIIHM     Caribbean Institute of International Hospitality Management
CSME      Caribbean Single Market and Economy
CVQ       Caribbean Vocational Qualification
CXC       Caribbean Examinations Council
FM        Financial Management
GCTVET    Grenada Council for Technical and Vocational Education and Training
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR       Implementation Completion and Results Report
IERR      Internal Economic Rate of Return
ID        Identification Document
IO        Intermediate Outcome
ISR       Implementation Status Report
KPI       Key Performance Indicator
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MoE       Ministry of Education, Human Resource Development and Labor
MIS       Management Information System
NSDC      National Skills Development Centre
NPV       Net Present Value
NVQ       National Vocational Qualification
OECD      Organization of Eastern Caribbean States
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PCU       Project Coordination Unit
PDO       Project Development Objective
PRF       Project Result Framework
PSR       Project Status Report
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
QEA       Quality at Entry Assessment
QSA       Quality of Supervision Assessment
TVET      Technical and Vocational Training and Education
TTL       Task Team Leader
      Vice President:    Hasan A. Tuluy
    Country Director:    Sophie Sirtaine
     Sector Manager:      Reema Nayar
Project Team Leader:    Harriet Nannyonjo
   ICR Team Leader:     Harriet Nannyonjo
                                       ST. LUCIA
                         OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project
              (First Phase of the OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Program)



                                                    CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 3
  3. Assessment of Outcomes ............................................................................................ 8
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 14
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 16
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 17
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 19
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 20
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 21
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 22
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 24
  Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 26
  Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 27
  Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 28
  Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 42
  Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 43
  MAP
A. Basic Information
                                                                                     OECS (LC) Skills for
Country:                            St. Lucia         Project Name:
                                                                                      Inclusive Growth
Project ID:                         P097141           L/C/TF Number(s):                  IDA-43000
ICR Date:                           2/18/2014         ICR Type:                           Core ICR
                                                                                    GOVERNMENT OF ST.
Lending Instrument:                    SIL            Borrower:
                                                                                           LUCIA
Original Total
                               XDR 2.40M         Disbursed Amount:                       XDR 2.40 M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:                XDR 2.40M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies: Ministry of Education and Culture
Co-financiers and Other External Partners: None

B. Key Dates
                                                                                            Revised /
      Process                Date                  Process            Original Date
                                                                                          Actual Date(s)
Concept Review:           06/12/2006         Effectiveness:            12/19/2007          12/19/2007
                                                                       12/14/2011
Appraisal:                01/17/2007         Restructuring(s):
                                                                       04/02/2013
Approval:                 05/08/2007         Mid-term Review:          07/17/2012           07/14/2010
                                             Closing:                  03/15/2012           09/15/2013

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                                                 Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                                                Moderate
Bank Performance:                                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                                                     Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
              Bank                   Ratings                     Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:           Moderately Satisfactory Government:                          Satisfactory
                                                    Implementing
Quality of Supervision:     Moderately Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
                                                    Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                                        Overall Borrower
                            Moderately Satisfactory                                      Satisfactory
Performance:                                        Performance:

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
      Implementation                                    QAG Assessments
                                   Indicators                                             Rating
        Performance                                            (if any)
 Potential Problem Project at
                                       No             Quality at Entry (QEA):              None
any time (Yes/No):
 Problem Project at any time                          Quality of Supervision
                                       Yes                                                 None
(Yes/No):                                             (QSA):
 DO rating before
                              Moderately Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:




                                                       i
D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                         Original                Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                                           24                      24
General public administration sector                                         4                       4
Other social services                                                       21                      21
Vocational training                                                         51                      51

Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Education for the knowledge economy                                         24                      24
Improving labor markets                                                     25                      25
Other Private Sector Development                                            13                      13
Social Inclusion                                                            25                      25
Vulnerability assessment and monitoring                                     13                      13

E. Bank Staff
          Positions                           At ICR                                 At Approval
Vice President:                           Hasan A. Tuluy                             Pamela Cox
Country Director:                         Sophie Sirtaine                         Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Manager:                           Reema Nayar                            Eduardo Velez Bustillo
Project Team Leader:                     Harriet Nannyonjo                          Andreas Blom
ICR Team Leader:                         Harriet Nannyonjo
ICR Primary Author:                       Cecilia Zanetta


F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

To assist the Government of St. Lucia to increase the employability of youth through private-sector driven
training.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
Not Applicable

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                                  Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                       Formally
                                                   Values (from                             Achieved at
      Indicator            Baseline Value                            Revised Target
                                                     approval                             Completion or
                                                                         Values
                                                   documents)                              Target Years
Indicator 1            Percentage of enrolled youth employed fifteen months after the start of the training
                                                                     65% (Dec. 2011)
Value
quantitative or                  n.a.                       75%                                    n.a.
                                                                       Dropped (April
Qualitative)
                                                                           2013)
Date achieved              Dec. 31, 2006           March 15, 2012                              April 2012

Comments               Not Applicable. This indicator was dropped under the April 2013 restructuring
(incl. %               because it is was deemed not to be a good measure of the Project’s impact on the
achievement)           “employability of youth” since it greatly depends on exogenous factors such as market
                       conditions.
Indicator 2            Number of youth certified at Level 1 or above
Value                                                                   726 (Dec. 2011) 1,119 youth certified
                                   0                      1,265
quantitative or                                                         407 (April 2013) at Level 1 or above



                                                       ii
Qualitative)
Date achieved              Dec. 31, 2006            March 15, 2012        Sept. 15, 2013        Sept. 15, 2013
                     Exceeded (88%, 154%, and 275% level of achievement with respect to Appraisal,
                     2011 and 2013 restructuring targets, respectively). Originally an Intermediate
                     Outcome Indicator, this indicator was made a PDO Indicator under the April 2013
                     restructuring, as it was deemed to better capture the Project’s impact on
                     “employability of youth” given that certification is an asset that enhances ability of a
Comments             trainee to get a job and/or keep one. The target was scaled down under the 2011 and
(incl. %             2013 restructurings to reflect the slower than expected pace of implementation in the
achievement)         aftermath of the 2008 global crisis which affected, among other things, employers’
                     ability to offer paid internships to trainees. A total of 1,146 certifications were awarded
                                                                                                               1
                     to 1,119 youth, including 694 Level 1 NVQ/CVQ, 218 received Level 2 NVQ/CVQ
                                                           2
                     and 234 international certifications .




(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                    Original Target                          Actual Value
                                                                           Formally
                                                     Values (from                             Achieved at
       Indicator            Baseline Value                             Revised Target
                                                       approval                             Completion or
                                                                            Values
                                                     documents)                              Target Years
                                Intermediate Outcome 1 (i.e., Component 1)
 To increase levels of training among unemployed youth through the establishment of a competitive training
                    scheme that finances private sector-driven training and traineeships.
Indicator 1            Number of unemployed youth enrolled in the training
Value
                                                                        870 (Dec. 2011)
quantitative or                    0                     1850                                     1,170
                                                                        945 (April 2013)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                Dec. 31, 2006          March 15, 2012       Sept. 15, 2013      Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
                       Exceeded (63%, 135%, and 124% level of achievement with respect to Appraisal,
(incl. %
                       2011 and 2013 restructuring targets, respectively).
achievement)
                       Percentage of enrolled youth that become certified one year after the start of the
Indicator 2
                       training
Value
quantitative or                    0                     71%           65% (Dec. 2011)            95.6%
Qualitative)
Date achieved                Dec. 31, 2006          March 15, 2012       Sept. 15, 2013      Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
                       Exceeded (135%, and 147% level of achievement with respect to Appraisal, and
(incl. %
                       2013 restructuring target, respectively).
achievement)
Indicator 3            Percentage of enrolled youth in training in other sectors than hospitality
Value
                                   0                      30%          38% (April 2013)            50%
quantitative or




1
    27 youth received two certifications
2
  International certifications are those awarded by institutions that are recognized
internationally beyond the Caribbean Region, for example the American Hotel and
Lodging Education Institute and Monroe College. This means that trainees awarded
international certification could potentially secure employment both within and outside
the Caribbean.



                                                     iii
Qualitative)
Date achieved              Dec. 31, 2006            March 15, 2012         Sept. 15, 2013    Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
                      Exceeded (167%, and 132% level of achievement with respect to Appraisal, and
(incl. %
                      2013 restructuring target, respectively).
achievement)
                                 Intermediate Outcome 2 (i.e., Component 2)
To develop an improved policy framework for delivering training by enhancing OECS collaboration in training
                and introducing occupational standards to increase quality and value of training.
Indicator 4             Number of pre-qualified or accredited training providers
Value
                                                                         65 (Dec. 2011)
quantitative or                     0                       100                                   122
                                                                        117 (April 2013)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                Dec. 31, 2006           March 15, 2012      Sept. 15, 2013      Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
                        Exceeded (122%, 188%, and 104% level of achievement with respect to Appraisal,
(incl. %
                        2011 and 2013 restructuring targets, respectively).
achievement)
Indicator 5             Number of Standards Vetted
Value
                                                                         85 (Dec. 2011)
quantitative or                     0                       n.a.                                  101
                                                                         87 (April 2013)
Qualitative)
Date achieved                Dec. 31, 2006           March 15, 2012      Sept. 15, 2013      Sept. 15, 2013
                        Exceeded (119% and 116% level of achievement with respect to 2011 and 2013
Comments
                        restructuring targets, respectively).
(incl. %
achievement)
                      Note: This indicator was added during the Nov. 2011 restructuring.
Indicator 6           National Qualifications register in operation
Value
quantitative or                   No                         Yes                                  Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved              Dec. 31, 2006            March 15, 2012         Sept. 15, 2013    Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
(incl. %              Achieved.
achievement)
Indicator 7           Action plan for the inclusion of vulnerable groups in the economy
Value
                                                                           Dropped (Dec.
quantitative or                   No                         Yes
                                                                               2011)
Qualitative)
Date achieved              Dec. 31, 2006            March 15, 2012         Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
                      Not Applicable. This indicator was dropped under the 2011 restructuring, since the
(incl. %
                      Project already targeted this population group
achievement)
                        Action plan to improve the relevance and sustainability of training, including: a) Study
Indicator 8             for career mobility; b) Labor market needs assessment; and c) Future financing of
                        training.
Value                                                      a) Yes
                                                                                                   a) Yes
quantitative or                      0                     b) Yes         c) Dropped
                                                                                                   b) Yes
Qualitative)                                               c) Yes
Date achieved                 Dec. 31, 2006            March 15, 2012    Sept. 15, 2013        Sept. 15, 2013
                        Achieved. The study of career mobility and the labor market needs assessment were
Comments
                        completed in 2009 and 2012, respectively. The third study (i.e., Future Financing of
(incl. %
                        Training) was dropped under the Dec. 2011 restructuring since it was partially covered
achievement)
                        under the labor market needs assessment.
                                  Intermediate Outcome 3 (i.e., Component 3)
 To strengthen institutional capacity to better implement, monitor and plan training through the strengthening
                                       of the Project implementing agencies
                        Percentage of above indicators and of additional implementation indicators reported
Indicator 9
                        on a yearly basis by NSDC
Value                                0                     100%                                     100%



                                                        iv
quantitative or
Qualitative)
Date achieved               Dec. 31, 2006            March 15, 2012                                Sept. 15, 2013
Comments
(incl. %                Achieved (100% level of achievement).
achievement)

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

            Date ISR                                                                         Actual Disbursements
 No.                                     DO                               IP
            Archived                                                                            (USD millions)
   1       06/22/2007        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    0.00
   2       10/17/2007        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    0.00
   3       05/08/2008        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    0.25
   4       11/02/2008        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    0.25
   5       06/29/2009       Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory                   0.38
   6       12/19/2009       Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory                   0.38
   7       06/28/2010       Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory                   0.63
   8       02/27/2011        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    0.85
   9       09/12/2011       Moderately Unsatisfactory           Moderately Satisfactory                    1.99
  10       03/25/2012       Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory                   1.99
  11       09/19/2012       Moderately Unsatisfactory          Moderately Unsatisfactory                   1.99
  12       03/31/2013        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    2.99
  13       07/24/2013        Moderately Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                          2.99


H. Restructuring (if any)
                                              ISR Ratings at      Amount Disbursed
   Restructuring        Board Approved        Restructuring                                 Reason for Restructuring & Key
                                                                  at Restructuring in
      Date(s)            PDO Change                                                                Changes Made
                                               DO        IP          USD millions
                                                                                        Level-Two Restructuring to respond to
                                                                                        the economic downturn that had
                                                                                        affected the pace of implementation of
                                                                                        the demand-driven, private sector-
                                                                                        oriented training under the Project,
       12/14/2011            No                S         S                1.99          incl.: (a) changes to the scope of
                                                                                        activities; (b) revisions to Project
                                                                                        financing; (c) an update of the Project
                                                                                        Results Framework (PRF); and (d) an
                                                                                        extension of the closing date to Sept.
                                                                                        15, 2013.
                                                                                        Level-Two Restructuring to revise the
                                                                                        PDO indicator and PRF targets to
       04/02/2013            No               MU        MS                2.99          better measure the Project’s impact on
                                                                                        the employability of youth over the
                                                                                        long term.




                                                         v
I. Disbursement Profile




                          vi
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

1.     In the second half of the 2000s, economic growth was steadily improving in the
countries of the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), yet their economies
continued to face obstacles to competitiveness and economic development, including the
shortage of skills. Over the previous decade, countries, in the region had undergone a
dynamic shift, transitioning from mono-crop based agriculture to a service-oriented
economy, placing significant pressure on labor markets. Tourism and construction had
become the main drivers of economic growth, as illustrated by the case of St. Lucia,
where 1,100 new hotel rooms (equivalent to a 25 percent increase) were built in 2006
alone. The upsurge in tourism-related activity was expected to continue to fuel the
demand for skilled labor in the short and medium terms.

2.      Government officials in the OECS saw the region’s high economic growth as a
window of opportunity to address the urgent need of providing relevant skills for
unemployed youth to enter the labor market, as well as an opportunity to help transition
the labor force into higher-end services. In St. Lucia, youth unemployment was 39
percent in 2005 compared to 13 percent for the whole workforce. Youth unemployment
imposed a high cost to society as a result of increased risks of deviant behavior and
forgone earnings. It was estimated that bringing youth unemployment down to the level
of the whole workforce could increase GDP by 1.3 percent. 3

3.      Enhancing the efficiency of labor markets was also an important regional priority,
as increasing movement of artisans and skilled persons across the Caribbean Community
was seen as a crucial element to the success of the incipient Caribbean Single Market and
Economy (CSME). 4 In this regard, the Caribbean region had taken steps to provide a
solid human capital foundation for economic growth and integration, including adopting
a Caribbean Vocational Qualifications (CVQ) framework that set the foundations for
common standards and recognition of technical and vocational qualifications throughout
the region, and alignment of Technical and Vocational Training and Education (TVET)
with workplace demands.

4.    Approved in 2007, the Bank-financed OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth
Adaptable Program Loan (APL) aimed to provide support to OECS countries to


3
  World Bank (2003), Caribbean Youth Development: Issues and Policy Directions, Washington, D.C.,
4
  The Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME), also known as the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) Single Market and Economy, is an integrated development strategy envisioned at the 10th
Meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community which took place in July
1989 in Grand Anse, Grenada. One of the key elements of the CSME is the free movement of labor -
through measures such as removing all obstacles to intra-regional movement of skills, labor and travel,
harmonizing social services (education, health, etc.), providing for the transfer of social security benefits
and establishing common standards and measures for accreditation and equivalency
(http://www.caricom.org).


                                                     1
undertake crucial reforms needed for improving labor skills development to, in turn, meet
the labor demands required to sustain economic growth. St. Lucia was the first country to
join the Program.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

5.     The objective of the first phase of the APL was to assist the Government of St.
Lucia to increase the employability of youth through private-sector driven training.
Employability was defined as the knowledge, skills and behavior of beneficiaries to help
youth transition to the labor market (p. 5 of the PAD). Employable skills sought out by
employers include basic literacy and numeracy, higher order skills such as decision
making and problem solving and life skills such as dependability, positive attitude, self-
confidence, punctuality).
6.       The PDO Indicator was the following one:
         Percent of enrolled youth employed fifteen months after the start of the training
          program (Target value: 70 percent average over the life of the Project and 75
          percent for Year 4).
1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

7.     While the PDO remained unchanged throughout the life of the Project,
modifications were introduced to the PDO Indicators, as follows:
         Percent of enrolled youth employed fifteen months after the start of the training
          program – This PDO Indicator was dropped under the April 2013 restructuring,
          as it was deemed not to be a good measure of the Project’s impact on the
          “employability of youth” since it greatly depends on exogenous factors such as
          market conditions.
         Number of youth certified at Level I and above was added as a PDO Indicator
          under the April 2013 restructuring because certification was deemed to be a
          strong long-term measure of employability since it is an asset that enhances the
          ability of a trainee to get a job and/or keep one.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

8.     The Project’s original direct beneficiaries were unemployed youth ages 17 to 30
with less than three Caribbean Examinations Council (CXC) passes. This population
group was targeted for training under the Project as it was considered to have insufficient
academic qualifications to obtain employment or proceed to higher education. Under the
2011 restructuring, the pool of direct beneficiaries was expanded to include those aged 16
to 40 with less than four CXC passes, thus expanding the targeted at-risk population in
the context of widespread unemployment.

9.     Indirect beneficiaries included employers, who would benefit from a labor pool
with enhanced, certifiable labor skills, as well as training providers and other individuals
involved in the various aspects of labor skills certification, who would benefit from
expanded professional and business opportunities.


                                              2
1.5 Original Components

10.     Component 1 - Skills training for unemployed youth (US$3.56 million equivalent
to 67 percent of Project cost): This component provided financial support to the training
of the targeted youth population.
11.    Component 2 - Improving the policy framework for training (US$0.84 million,
equivalent to 16 percent of Project cost): This component supported policies and
introduced competency-based standards to improve the quality of training and assistance
to youth under Component 1.
12.     Component 3 - Project management and institutional strengthening (US$0.92
million, equivalent to 17 percent of the Project cost): This component provided financial
support to strengthen project management.

1.6 Revised Components

13.     To address the deteriorated economic context in the aftermath of the 2008 global
crisis and the corresponding decline in demand for workers, the relative importance of
Components 1 and 2 was revised under a Level Two restructuring in 2011. Specifically,
the number of trainees under Component 1 was reduced in response to a lower than
anticipated market absorption capacity while more emphasis was placed on Component 2
to strengthen the policy framework for competency-based training, including building
capacity for assessment, certification, and quality assurance.

1.7 Other significant changes

14.     Level Two-Project Restructuring – December 2011: The 2011 Level Two
restructuring also introduced the following changes:
   a) Revisions to Project Financing, including: i) a reduction in Project costs; ii) the
      elimination of the monetary contribution of employers to the training scheme in
      order to offset the economic downturn and encourage their participation; and iii) a
      reallocation of proceeds in accordance with the changes to the scope of activities.
   b) Updating of the Project Results Framework, (PRF) including revision of the
      targets to reflect the changes in scope of activities as a result of the economic
      downturn.
   c) Extension of the closing date, from March 15, 2012 to September 15, 2013, to
      allow sufficient time for full Project implementation, including training of
      additional cohorts.

15.     Level Two-Project Restructuring – April 2013: The 2013 Level Two
restructuring also introduced changes to the end of Project targets of IO Indicators to
reflect changes in the pace of implementation (see Annex 2 for a detailed description).

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


                                           3
16.    While the Project was grounded in a robust technical design, it also exhibited
some weaknesses, as summarized below:
Strengths:

   The Project’s overall focus and PDOs was fully aligned with the OECS Country
    Assistance Strategy (CAS) for 2006-2009, which emphasized “supporting growth and
    competitiveness” as well as “reducing vulnerabilities, particularly targeting at-risk
    youth.”
   Its innovative design incorporated state-of-the-art knowledge acquired from similar
    Bank-financed skills development projects targeting unemployed youth in the region,
    as well as findings from three Analytical and Advisory Activities (AAA) products. 5
    Particularly notable was the emphasis on demand-driven training to ensure the
    alignment with market needs and the incorporation of soft skills training, which had
    been identified elsewhere as being highly valued by both employers and trainees.
   The system of incentives embedded in the Program’s operational rules, such as
    outcome-based payment schemes to training providers, was critical to its successful
    and more efficient implementation. Fee payment to training providers was subject to
    their trainees successfully obtaining certification.
   The Program’s strong regional dimension effectively built on the ongoing momentum
    toward regional integration, by ensuring compatibility of labor skills competency
    frameworks, maximizing cross-fertilization and capitalizing on the potential for
    economies of scale. In this regard, the so-called “Horizontal” APL was an
    appropriate choice of lending instrument, as it effectively supported operations in
    several countries under a common program framework, ensuring consistency at the
    regional level, and reducing Project preparation and supervision costs.
   The Project benefited from an in-depth labor market assessment and a close working
    relationship with the hotel and tourism industry during preparation.
   The Project’s implementation arrangements effectively built upon St. Lucia’s
    institutional framework, assigning responsibilities for regulation and quality
    assurance to the TVET Unit within the Ministry of Education, Human Resource
    Development and Labor (MoE) and responsibilities for coordinating the provision of
    training to the National Skills Development Centre (NSDC), fully capitalizing on its
    capacity in terms of counselors and instructors, basic skills training curriculum,
    management information system (MIS), and physical facilities.

Weaknesses:




5
 Caribbean Development Bank, Department for International Development, the European Commission for
Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean, the United Nations Development Programme and the World Bank
(2005), Promoting an Integrated Social Protection Framework for the Caribbean, Twelfth Meeting of the
Council for Human and Social Development, Caribbean Community, April 27 – 29, 2005, Georgetown,
Guyana.; World Bank (2003), Caribbean Youth Development: Issues and Policy Directions, Washington,
D.C. World Bank (2006), OECS Skills Enhancement Policy Note, Washington, D.C.



                                                 4
   The Project design may have been overambitious, as it called for the simultaneous
    development of a vocational qualification framework and the establishment of a
    demand-driven, competency-based training mechanism. Not only were both tasks
    logistically challenging in and of themselves but the establishment of a competency-
    based training also depended to a large extent on the progress made in the
    development of the vocational qualification framework.
   The PRF exhibited weaknesses, which are described under Section 2.3.

2.2 Implementation

17.     Although the Project was implemented under unusually adverse macroeconomic
conditions, it benefitted from the sustained political support from top Government
authorities under two different administrations, strong leadership within the MoE and
NSDC, and effective project management. The specific factors affecting implementation
can be summarized as follows:

Factors outside the control of the Government and the implementing agency

18.     Unfavorable economic environment: The impact of the 2008 global financial
crisis on St. Lucia’s highly dependent economy was severe. Over the previous decade,
Saint Lucia had been growing at an average rate of 2.1 percent, with the highest growth
rate of 7.4 percent, in 2006. Following the recession, growth rates declined to an average
of 0.14 percent during the 2009-2012 period. The decline in economic activity was due in
part to reduced activity in the construction sector, as several sizeable investments in the
tourism sector were postponed.

19.     Sharp drop in the demand for labor skills: To stimulate public-private
partnerships and move towards more sustainable training, the Project’s training scheme
originally required the private sector to contribute a nominal 5 to 10 percent towards the
cost of technical training (EC$120-240) and payment of the stipend for a trainee during
the traineeship to cover transportation costs (EC$1,200). While payment of a small
stipend for trainees had been a common practice, the nominal contribution of 5 to 10
percent was new but considered feasible in the economic conditions prevailing at
appraisal. Ultimately, the ripple effects of the global crisis reached Saint Lucia’s
economy and the demand for employer-paid internships—and even unpaid ones—
virtually vanished. This became a substantial stumbling block for the implementation of
the training component, which was eventually addressed under the Project’s restructuring
in 2011.

Factors Generally Subject to Government Control

20.    Sustained support on the part of authorities: While the Project was prepared
under one administration and implemented under another one from the opposition party,
the Project’s objectives of providing demand-driven technical and life skills training
among vulnerable youth and developing the corresponding institutional framework
remained unchanged.



                                            5
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control

21.     Key changes were introduced to the training program: Ultimately, the Project
was successfully implemented as a result of the flexibility and proactive attitude
exhibited by the PCU, the MoE, and the NSDC, which were able to effectively expand
the focus of the training to other sectors beyond tourism that were not as hard hit by the
global financial crisis and to accommodate changes demanded by employers. In addition,
efforts to expand the number of employers offering internships were successful. Finally,
critical operational changes were also introduced to the training program, including
increasing the stipend amount, expediting payment, and expanding training offerings to
better match the interests of the trainees. These changes led to drastic reductions in drop-
out rates, from 26 percent in 2012 to 8 percent in 2013.

22.     International certification: The MoE partnered with the Caribbean Institute of
International Hospitality Management (CIIHM), the American Hotel and Lodging
Education Institute (AHLEI) and Monroe College to provide international qualifications
in the areas related to hospitality. As a result of this collaboration, 234 Level 2
international certifications were awarded under the Project.

23.     Ongoing collaboration with Grenada under the APL framework: Collaboration
between St. Lucia and Grenada 6 under the OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Program
helped both countries learn from each other and move faster with implementation, as they
routinely shared documents and experiences. For example, St. Lucia’s quality assurance
documents were based on those of Grenada, while Grenada’s Life Skills document was
an adaptation of the St. Lucia’s one. This collaboration also included the joint
development of the information monitoring system (IMS). These are just some of many
concrete examples of collaboration between the two countries that took place during
implementation and are expected to continue after Project closing as a result of the strong
links that have developed between professional staff in both countries.

24.     Strong collaboration with CARICOM countries and agencies: The St. Lucia team
worked closely with their counterpart in Grenada, other countries in the region like
Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, and the regional organizations, such as the Caribbean
Association of National Training Agencies (CANTA), as they developed labor
certification standards and certification of key quality assurance staff. This close
collaboration led, among others, to the MoE’s TVET Unit’s accreditation by CANTA,
which enables it to issue CVQs, effectively expanding the possibilities for employment of
the Project graduates to the entire CARICOM region.


2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization




6
 A US$3.00 million credit was approved for Grenada on January 14, 2009 for the Second phase of the
OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Program.


                                                6
25.    Design: The Project’s M&E design effectively built upon the NSDC’s
information system, which was already in place, and its PRF included a battery of robust
intermediate indicators. However, it exhibited the following weaknesses regarding the
PDO indicators:
      It became apparent during implementation that the employment based indicator
       was not effective in capturing the Project’s impact, as employment can be
       substantially affected –both positively and negatively – by factors outside the
       orbit of the Project.
      The PRF also failed to capture the establishment of a vocational qualifications
       framework, which was a major focus of the Project.

26.     Implementation: The M&E system went beyond the PRF to include gender, drop-
out rates, geographical location and occupational area. A more ambitious information
management system (IMS) to support the M&E needs of the newly established vocational
qualifications framework has also been developed under the Project in collaboration with
Grenada.

27.     Utilization: The M&E system for the TVET Unit made it possible to support all
stages of implementation of the training program, as well as closely monitor the progress
being made and the achievement of expected results, including identifying reasons for
trainee drop out. It also served as the first register of labor skills certificates being issued.
Once fully implemented, the IMS could also provide the basis for a regional labor-skills
certification registry.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

28.     Environmental and social safeguards: The Project had an environmental category
C rating given that a neutral environmental impact was expected. No social safeguards
were triggered either.

29.    Financial Management (FM): The Project’s FM was conducted in accordance
with Bank’s policies and procedures. Audits were submitted on time.

30.    Procurement: Albeit slow, procurement activities were conducted for the most
part in accordance with Bank policies and procedures. In 2012, procurement was
downgraded because the PCU failed to follow Bank guidelines, causing delays in the
issuing of No Objections on the part of the Bank. Corrective actions were subsequently
adopted and procurement was upgraded later that same year.




2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase




                                               7
31.      The Project’s implementation fully relied on Saint Lucia’s permanent institutions
(i.e., the MoE’s TVET Unit, and the PCU, also a permanent unit within the Ministry of
Finance and Economic Affairs). As a result, there are no significant changes to be made
in the post-completion phase, except for incorporating into the permanent staff a handful
of technical staff positions that were financed by the Project. The MoE has conducted an
Impact Assessment of the Project and Self-Evaluation Study to fully capitalize on the
lessons learned from the Project. In addition, the MoE’s TVET Unit has finalized its new
Strategic Plan and a Plan for Sustainability, which was informed by the results from the
Labor Market Needs Assessment (2013). In addition, St. Lucian authorities have decided
to continue the integration of competency-based training program into the NSDC’s
training programs as well as TVET education at the secondary level. Assessment of prior
learning, based on the competency framework established by the Project, has also started
to facilitate certification of employed youth who do not have certification.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
Rating: Substantial

32.      Objectives: The relevance of the Project’s PDO is deemed to be Substantial. As
pointed in the 2013 Budget Speech, 7 increasing the pool of labor skills as a way to
enhance quality and productivity while tackling stubbornly high unemployment is critical
for igniting St. Lucia’s hidden growth potential and moving up the development ladder.
In turn, the Government’s TVET strategic plan 2014 - 2019 responds to the findings of
the 2013 Labor Market Needs Assessment, which also underscores the mismatch of the
skills set for the available jobs in the labor market.

33.     The importance assigned to skills training and outreach to unemployed youth is a
priority to Saint Lucia as clearly articulated in the Ministry of Education and Culture
Education development Plan 2009-2014 and beyond which placed continued emphasis on
raising the level of achievement of all learners, reforming the management of education,
and improving the relevance of the secondary curriculum and introduction of alternative
modes of certification. In addition, the PDO is fully aligned with the current OECS
Education Sector Strategy 2012-2021, 8 which includes as one of its seven strategic
imperatives, the need to provide opportunities for all TVET learners to develop the
knowledge, skills and attitudes to enable them to progress to further education and training
and productive employment through the development of a competency-based curricula
linked to the CVQ framework established across secondary and tertiary education and in
all other educational settings in work and in community.
34.     The Project’s PDO is also consistent with the Bank’s current Regional Partnership
Strategy for OECS Countries 2010-2014 (Report No. 53762-LAC, May 3, 2010), which


7
  Budget Statement 2013, delivered by the Hon. Dr. Kenny Davis Anthony, Prime Minister and Minister
for Finance, Economic Affairs, Planning & Social Security, May 14, 2013; Castries, Saint Lucia
8
  The OECS Education Sector Strategy 2012-2021 reflects the overarching education strategy of the OECS
and is used by Member States to align their national Strategies and Plans.


                                                  8
had two objectives: i) to build resilience; and ii) enhance competitiveness and stimulate
growth over the medium term. By focusing on the development of labor skills among
vulnerable youth, the Program contributed directly to these two objectives. In addition,
the Project’s PDO is fully aligned with the World Bank Education Strategy 2020, which
focuses on learning for all, beyond schooling in recognition that the level of skills in a
workforce predicts economic growth rates far better than do average schooling levels.

35.      Design and implementation: The relevance of the Project’s design is deemed to be
Substantial. With its emphasis not just on technical and life skills training provision per
se but also on internships and development of a regionally relevant labor skills
competency framework, the Project’s design continues to be highly relevant. The
original focus on internships paid by employers within the tourism and construction
sectors was relevant in the context of the economic conditions at appraisal. After
economic conditions deteriorated, the focus shifted toward publicly paid internships in
sectors beyond tourism and construction, which ensured the continuous relevance of the
Project’s design. Project’s restructurings contributed to maintaining the operation’s
relevance in the context of the prevailing economic conditions and demand on the part of
employers, significantly expanding its scope beyond the tourism and construction sectors
as well as its target population to include more educated youth. The Project design
continued to be highly relevant as denoted by the strong focus on development of the
institutional framework and management skills needed to support the development and
implementation of a regionally relevant labor skills competency framework, the decision
of the GOSL to continue with a similar youth certification-based training program under
the NSDC, and the National Initiative for Creating Employment (NICE). The strong
collaboration with other CARICOM countries and regional agencies that took place
under the Project also contributed toward regional economic integration, a top priority for
St. Lucia and other OECS countries.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
Rating: Substantial

The PDO was to assist the Government of St. Lucia to increase the employability of
youth through private-sector driven training. PDO Indicator: Number of youth certified
at Level I or above.

36.     PDO achievement is considered to be Substantial, as demonstrated by the
substantial progress toward achieving the PDO of increasing the employability of youth
through public/private sector partnerships for demand-driven technical and life skills
training.
37.     The number of youth awarded NVQs/CVQs 9 certification exceeded the 2011 and
2013 restructuring targets. A total of 1,119 youth received certification at Level 1 or



9
  The Caribbean Vocational Qualification (CVQ) is an award that represents achievement of a set of
competencies which define core work practices of an occupational area, consistent with the levels
articulated within the regional qualifications framework. To earn an award, trainees must demonstrate


                                                    9
above compared to the targets of 726 and 407 youth defined as part of the 2011 and 2013
restructurings (154 percent and 275 percent level of achievement, respectively).
Achievement was also considerable compared to the original target of 1,265 youth
defined at Appraisal (88 percent level of achievement). Of the 1,119 youth that received
certification, 694 received Level 1 NVQ/CVQ and 234 received international
certification, and 218 Level 2 NVQ/CVQ 10 which may explain why over 43 percent of
the certified trainees were employed within less than six months of start of training. It is
important to emphasize that certification outcomes capture not just training outputs (i.e.,
the number of trainees that received soft and technical training and completed their
internship) but achievement of industry-vetted, independently certified, competency-
based skills that are recognized both at the national, regional 11 and international 12 levels.
Prior to certification, all trainees regardless of level of training, were assessed on
technical skills and a common core of employable skills 13, including basic literacy and
numeracy, higher order skills such as decision making and problem solving and life skills
such as dependability, positive attitude, self- confidence, punctuality and other aptitudes
required to function effectively on the job. The purpose of the assessment was to
determine whether trainees have met the requirements outlined in the competency
standards for the qualification they seek. This assessment was based on job performance
during internship and on a portfolio compiled by the trainee to demonstrate mastery of
skills. Those who complete the training and pass the assessment are then certified.

38.     By focusing on the development of skills—both life skills and technical skills—
through a demand-driven training program, the Project directly contributed to improving
the employability of youth. Life skills training provided under the Project focused on the
development of socio-emotional or non-cognitive skills (also known as “life
skills/productivity enhancement training (PET)” or “soft skills”) related to behaviors and
attitudes, such as dependability, positive attitude, team work, and conflict resolution.
Recent evidence from econometric and qualitative analyses point to the importance of
non-cognitive skills as determinants of success in the labor market and workers’
productivity. 14 Moreover, recent studies indicate that employers in the Latin America
and Caribbean region are placing increasing value on life skills vis-à-vis technical



competence in reaching CARICOM-approved occupational standards developed by practitioners and
employers (i.e. the industry experts).

10
     27 Youth Received two certifications

11
     In case of CVQ

12
     In the case of international certification.

13
   There was a common core of life skills for all occupational fields irrespective of the level of training.
This means that those trained for example in Housekeeping were required to go through the same life skills
training as those under Data Operations.

14
     See Heckman, Stixrud and Urzua, 2006;Fazio, 2011.


                                                    10
skills. 15 Similarly, by requiring training providers to demonstrate employers’
commitment to provide on-the-job internships as part of their proposal, the Project
ensured that employers played a role in determining the allocation of training resources
among the various occupations and economic sectors, thus ensuring the relevance of the
technical skills developed under the Project.

39.     The large number of trainees certified was enabled by several Project activities:
First, the Project succeeded in mobilizing trainees, training providers and employers
resulting in 1,170 trainees being enrolled in training against a revised end-target of 945.
The percentage of these trainees enrolled in sectors other than hospitality reached 50
percent against a revised end-target of 38 percent. A total of 122 training providers
received training in competency-based training and were pre-qualified to provide training
under the newly established vocational qualification framework, far exceeding the
appraisal, 2011 and 2013 restructuring targets by 122%, 188% and 104% respectively. In
addition, a total of 277 employers provided traineeships to trainees. The large number of
employers and training providers facilitated both technical training and internships, and
contributed to the percentage of enrolled youth that were certified within a year after start
of the training reaching 95.6 percent against a revised 65 percent end-target and an
original 71 percent target.

40.      Second, the Project supported implementation of an action plan for inclusion of
vulnerable groups. This included enhancing trainees’ basic numerical and literary skills,
which was identified as one of the factors limiting trainees’ ability to participate and
capitalize on the training. A literacy electronic tool/software was installed at fifteen
institutions island-wide, including high schools and libraries, to help bridge basic
learning deficiencies. Training providers also placed special emphasis on strengthening
basic numerical and literacy skills as part of the technical training. This additional
support helped more trainees to qualify for training and be able to complete portfolios
that were part of the assessment prior to certification.

41.     Third, the Project supported establishment of a robust policy and institutional
framework for delivering training by enhancing OECS collaboration in training,
introducing occupational standards and a quality assurance system to increase quality and
value of training. This included the establishment of an industry-vetted, regionally
recognized occupational standards framework, supported by a robust quality assurance
system that will serve to permanently improve the quality and value of training in Saint
Lucia. In May 2013, the TVET Unit of the Ministry of Education Human Resources
Development and Labor received CVQ granting status from CARICOM, which is an
independent endorsement of the robustness of Saint Lucia’s newly established
occupational standards framework, enhancing relevance, quality, and increasing the
possibility of employment outside Saint Lucia. As part of this framework, a total of 101


15
  Using data from 1,200 firms in the LAC region, Bassi et al. (2012) showed that employers value non-
cognitive skills more than cognitive ones, with the results being statistically robust across countries,
economic sectors, and occupations. These results are consistent with those rendered by studies recently
conducted in Peru and the Dominican Republic (World Bank, 2011; Martinez, 2011).


                                                  11
qualifications were validated by 30 industry advisory committees that were set up across
the various occupational areas and subsequently adopted by the TVET Council
(compared to an end of Project target of 87). In addition, there has been good progress in
the development of the human resources needed to support the labor skills competency
framework, with a total of 67 certified assessors (against a target of 30), and 40 verifiers
and auditors, to support the assessment process. This system is supported by a
corresponding manual that articulates the guidelines and procedures relating to issuance
of NVQs/CVQs, 16 and trainee assessment which provided the basis for certification. The
qualifications helped to diversify the fields of certification based on indications from the
labor market, and matched availability of placements for traineeships that were an
integral part of the training program, and would serve to increase employability of youth
beyond Saint Lucia. The availability of qualified personnel facilitated assessment and
therefore certification of a large number of youth. In the context of the newly established
labor skills competency framework, industry advisory groups play a central role in
determining the “content” of training—i.e., the specific skills to be built through
training—thus, ensuring their relevance. In addition, by putting in place objective
certification standards and an independent certification system, the Project ensured the
quality of the technical skills developed under the Project.

42.     The Project strengthened the institutional capacity of MoE’s TVET Unit and the
NSDC to implement, monitor and plan training. This was central to ensuring that the
Government of Saint Lucia had the necessary institutional capacity to support the
provision of training and the establishment of the labor skills competency framework
both under and beyond the Project. The increasingly stronger capacity also partly
contributed to the significant decrease in trainee drop-out during the life of the Project,
from 26 percent under the 2012 training cycle to only 8 percent under the 2013 training
cycle, as a result of several operational improvements, including delivering the training
over a reduced time span but with the same number of hours required for certification and
expediting the payment of stipends.

3.3 Efficiency
Rating: Modest

43.     The Project’s efficiency is considered to be modest. Although the unit
certification cost (i.e., cost of certified trainee) was about 1.5 percent lower than (i.e.,
US$2,767.00 per certification anticipated at appraisal compared to actual per capita cost
of US$2,726 17 and the actual average unit cost of training was higher US$1,361.9


16
   These documents include: i) Learner’s Handbook, ii) Center Approval Guidelines, iii) Assessment
Guidelines, iv) Quality Assurance Manual, and v) Accreditation Manual, vi) Procedures Manual.

17
   Unit certification costs are estimated based on the estimated and actual cost of Component 1 (USD3.5
million and USD3.05 million, respectively) and the number of estimated and actual number of youth
certified under the Project (1,265 and 1,119 youth certified at Level 1 or above under the training
component at Appraisal and end-project result, respectively).



                                                   12
compared to US$907 at appraisal, the rate of return remains high. This is mainly the
result of two factors. First, actual certification outcomes were substantial (88 percent
compared to appraisal) and exceeded those specified at the 2011 and 2013 restructurings
(154 percent and 275 percent, respectively). Second, the GOSL made the strategic
decision to increase the focus on Level 2 NVQ/CVQ and international certification,
which represented higher training costs than Level 1 training, but resulted in a higher
probability of employment. Out of the 1,119 youth certified, 234 received international
certification and 218 received 2 NVQ/CVQ.

44.     The project’s economic efficiency is also demonstrated by the results from an
economic analysis of the training component, which yields an 8.5 percent internal
economic rate of return (IERR) 18 for component 1 alone. It assumed that, over the next
ten years, those who received training and certification under the Project will have a 20
percent increase in the probability of employment relative to their peers who did not
receive any training. It is assumed that the impact will be 50 percent higher among those
that received Level 2 NVQ/CVQ or international certification (i.e., 30 percent increase).
Having obtained regionally recognized CVQs and international certification, trainees now
have expanded employment opportunities within and outside CARICOM, thus effectively
increasing the probability of being employed.        The analysis also indicates that an
increase in average wage income of 15-20 percent is needed (i.e., 18.2 percent) to ensure
a positive rate of return with discount rates of 5, 7.5 and 10 percent compared to 20
percent at appraisal.

45.      Having obtained regionally recognized CVQs and international certification,
trainees now have expanded employment opportunities within and outside CARICOM
thus effectively increasing the probability of being employed. The positive economic
impact of the Project is also supported by the establishment of an improved policy and
institutional framework that includes an industry-vetted, regionally recognized
occupational standards framework that will serve to permanently improve the quality and
value of training in Saint Lucia. Thus, the economic benefits under the Project should
include benefits from competency-based training and certification in terms of higher
probabilities of employment and wages for future cohorts of trainees and employers. In
addition, a system of evaluation and certification of labor competency may induce
workers mobility among firms; a byproduct that will increase a premium paid for the
retention of employees. In contrast, it can also reduce the screening cost and initial
training expenses of workers to be hires, leading to more efficient labor markets.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
46.     The Project’s relevance of objectives and design are considered substantial,
efficacy is substantial, and efficiency is considered modest, resulting in an overall
Satisfactory rating.



18
     No IERR was calculated at appraisal.



                                            13
3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

47.    As originally envisioned, the training supported under the Project targeted solely
uneducated, unemployed youth. While this population group continued to be the main
beneficiary group, as part of the restructuring the targeting was expanded to include more
educated, employed youth to address growing unemployment even among more educated
youth.

48.    In terms of gender, the larger majority of trainees were female, accounting for 76
percent. In addition to targeting vulnerable youth, Saint Lucia’s authorities made an effort
to reach special-needs population groups, such as HIV infected youth, inmates at the
Borderlands Correctional Facility, and girls at risk.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

49.     The establishment of a labor skills competency framework was perhaps the most
notable Project outcomes in terms of its institutional impact. In this regard, it is important
to note that Saint Lucia is one of only four entities in the CARICOM region accredited by
CANTA to issue CVQs. This status could only be achieved with a strong quality
assurances system that was established with support from the Project.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
50.     The Project contributed toward strengthening collaboration and coordination
between government agencies, in particular the MoE, the NSDC and other line ministries,
particularly the Ministry of Agriculture. South-to-South collaboration cooperation with
Jamaica, Trinidad and Tobago, Grenada and regional agencies, including CANTA, is
another important Project outcome. There was strong collaboration with other
development partners, including the European Union (EU) and Canada. Synergies were
identified with an EU-funded project that allowed for training of plumbers, butchers, bee
keepers and farmers utilizing the regionally approved standards purchased and validated
under the Project. In addition, the development of the MIS and the labor market needs
assessment was done in collaboration with a Canada-funded education project. These
collaborations enabled cost savings opportunities for the GOSL as well as the promotion
of TVET regionally approved framework and certification of more trainees. Trainees also
obtained birth certificates and national IDs and opened bank accounts, which facilitated
their mainstreaming into society.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
Not Applicable.




4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Moderate



                                             14
Factors contributing toward sustainability

51.     There is strong political support. The newly established vocational framework
and youth development continue to be areas of strategic importance for Saint Lucia’s
authorities, which positively affects the sustainability of the Project’s outcomes. This
importance was denoted by the high profile given to the 2013 graduation ceremony,
which was attended by the country’s highest authorities, including the Governor General,
the Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Office of the Prime Minister, the Minister of
Education, the PS in the Minister of Finance PS, members of the diplomatic core, and
foreign ambassadors.

52.     Periodic regional accreditation by CANTA will help ensure that the vocational
qualification framework remains intact and continues to be improved. A new
accreditation review is planned for August 2014. In addition to their value as an external
and periodic quality assurance process, accreditation reviews can be expected to
contribute to the sustainability of the vocational qualifications framework, as losing
Accreditation would have great visibility and a high reputational risk.

53.    Efforts are already underway to mainstream the utilization of competency-based
standards in publicly funded training programs. For example, the MoE is already
working on revising the TVET curriculum at the secondary level to grant Level 1 CVQs
upon high school graduation. This initiative was already piloted under the Project, with
26 high school students receiving CVQs under the Project. In addition, the NSDC is in
the process of mainstreaming CVQ certification standards into its other training
programs. Finally, the Ministry of Agriculture has stated its commitment to adopt
competency-based training for all its extension services training.

54.     The robust framework that has been established to provide quality and relevant
skills. The policy and institutional framework, including occupational standards and a
quality assurance system with trained assessors, verifiers and auditors is in place to
support the continued operation of the CVQs and expansion of TVET in Saint Lucia.

Factors posing a risk on sustainability

55.     It is critical to ensure the financial sustainability of the newly established
vocational qualifications framework over the medium and long term. Establishment of a
financing mechanism to support the TVET Unit, giving it the ability to collect fees and
charge for services, including certification, and ensure that these resources are earmarked
for the TVET system would enhance the system’s financial sustainability.

56.     Employers need to be made aware of the existence and potential benefits of the
regional     vocational     qualification    framework.       The     recently   completed
Labor Needs Assessment Survey shows that only 9 percent of the firms that participated
in the survey were aware of the CVQ, only 2 percent utilized it to some extent, and just 1
percent did so at a greater extent. These results point to the need to undertake aggressive



                                            15
communication efforts, perhaps involving employers from other Caribbean countries
where vocational qualification framework is already well established.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

57.     The Bank’s team prepared a technically robust operation, which reflected the
state-of-art knowledge in active labor markets programs targeting youth as well as sound
operation design that put in place a system of incentives to support the demand-driven
nature of the training and the result-oriented behavior of the various actors. In addition,
the Bank team worked closely with various stakeholders, particularly employers from the
hotel and tourism sectors, to identify expected shortages in labor skills to be addressed
under the Project. Bank support was also a key factor in fostering horizontal fertilization
among OECS countries, particularly between Saint Lucia and Grenada’s officials, as well
as with regional organizations, such as CANTA. The Project’s design, however,
exhibited moderate shortcomings, including a PRF that did not adequately capture the
Project’s development objective.

(b) Quality of Supervision
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

58.     The Project was under close supervision, with regular supervision missions that
included field visits to training providers and employers throughout the country, which
helped identify the challenges being faced at various stages of Project implementation.
The Bank worked closely with the Saint Lucia authorities and provided the flexibility
needed to achieve a successful implementation of Project activities, including processing
two Level-2 restructurings to adapt the Project to the challenging economic landscape
that ensued as a result of the global financial crisis and enhance its PRF. There were
moderate shortcomings. The timing of the two restructurings, however, was questionable,
as the impact of the economic slowdown on the demand for employer-paid internships
was evident as early as 2009-2010. Likewise, the need to revise the PFR should have
been identified and addressed earlier during the Project lifespan, rather than six months
before closing.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

59.   Overall Bank performance is considered Moderately Satisfactory, given the
moderately satisfactory performance at quality at entry and supervision.


5.2 Borrower Performance



                                            16
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

60.     Government performance is deemed Satisfactory. The Project received the full
support from Saint Lucia’s authorities from the two administrations that were in office
during its implementation. Moreover, adequate technical and financial resources were
assigned to the Project despite the tight fiscal conditions that prevailed during its lifespan.
Even though the Steering Committee did not meet regularly during early stages of
implementation, there was strong inter-government coordination between not only the
MoE and the NSDC, but also other line ministries such as Agriculture, which was crucial
to the Project’s successful implementation.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

61.     The performance of the PCU is considered Satisfactory. It effectively coordinated
actions with key stakeholders and the private sector and maintained regular
communication with the Bank team. The PCU provided effective support to the TVET
Unit and the NSDC, responding swiftly to all their needs. By the end of the Project, all
Project indicators were being monitored and reported on a regular basis. The TVET Unit
provided strong leadership and a clear vision in the process of developing a labor skills
certification framework. It worked closely with key stakeholders within the country as
well as regional partners. It also exhibited ability to identify and respond to the incipient
demand for certification standards. The performance of the NSDC is also deemed
Satisfactory. Top authorities were actively involved in Project implementation. The
NSDC’s institutional and physical resources were critical to the success of the training
component, while its information system was critical in monitoring both implementation
progress and results.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

62.   Overall Borrower performance is considered Satisfactory, given the Satisfactory
outcome rating.

6. Lessons Learned

a) Lessons of wide general application

63.      Measuring the impact of skills building interventions on employability poses a
difficult challenge. This is particularly true in projects that, by virtue of their size and
other institutional and technical limitations, do not lend themselves to randomized-type
impact evaluations. While the impact on employment is undoubtedly the ultimate
measure of success, it is also affected by factors external to the intervention, most notably
economic conditions. Thus, in the design of skills development projects such as this one,
it is important to have reasonable expectations, realizing that at best these programs can



                                              17
help improve the alignment between the supply of labor skills as determined by market
forces.

64.     There are trade-offs between equity and efficiency objectives in the context of
skills development programs. Targeting the most vulnerable sectors of the population,
particularly poor at-risk youth who tend to have structurally less access to labor markets
than their peers from other socio-economic groups, is a clear priority from an equity
perspective. The argument for also including more educated, unemployed youth is
supported on the grounds of both equity and efficiency, particularly in times of high
unemployment.

65.   Focusing on soft-skills can provide an effective focus of training programs. Both
employers and trainees appear to value them greatly. Under the Project, soft skills were
emphasized throughout the training, including the technical training and the internship.

66.     The development of a competency certification framework is a crosscutting effort
at the intercept of the orbit of several line ministries. As illustrated by the Project
implementation experience, its success depended on the collaboration between several
entities, primarily the MoE and the NSDC. There are opportunities for broader
collaboration with the MoF and the MoL.


67.     The success of the training programs is highly susceptible to operational factors
such as amount and timeliness of stipends. The remarkable decrease in drop-out rates as a
result of fine-tuning operational details attest to their importance.

b) Project-specific lessons learned

68.    The costs of materials should be taken into account when determining amounts to
be paid to training providers. Rather than costs per student being uniform regardless of
the type of training, the costs of inputs needed—both in terms of equipment and
materials—should be taken into account in the cost structure.

69.      While the output-based payment to training providers was critical to its successful
implementation, there is room for further fine-tuning. To take into consideration factors
affecting drop-outs that are beyond the control of training providers, such as pregnancy,
illness, or lack of interest, other mechanisms should be considered, such as 100 percent
payment for a minimum certification threshold (e.g., 95 percent), to strike a greater
balance between the Program’s efficiency and the interest of training providers.

70.    It is important to not unduly burden employers providing internships with
excessive administrative work. As reported by employer representatives during the ICR
mission, the feedback required from employers (i.e., the completion of two
questionnaires over a four month period) was overly complex and time consuming not
only for employers but also for training providers who were responsible for ensuring that
they were submitted.



                                            18
71.    Training providers could benefit from having access to support from counselors
and social workers. This is particularly important in projects targeting vulnerable
population groups, as training providers are not necessarily equipped to deal with the
wide array of personal and inter-personal issues that arise during training.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
The Borrower’s ICR is included in Annex 9.

(b) Co-financiers
Not Applicable

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
Not Applicable




                                         19
                                 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest
Components                                                        Estimate       Estimate     % of Appraisal
                                                                 USD millions  USD millions         %
 1. Skills Tralning for Unemployed Youth                                  3.50           3.05            0.87
 2. Strengthening the Policy Framework for Trainlng                       0.80           0.56            0.69
 3. Project Management and Institutional Strengthening                    0.87           1.92            2.21
Total Baseline Cost                                                       5.17           5.52            1.07
    Physical Contingencies                                                0.01                            0.0
    Price Contingencies                                                   0.14                            0.0
Total Project Cost                                                        5.32           5.52           103.8


(b) Financing

                                                                           Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage
          Source of Funds                    Type of Co-financing          Estimate     Estimate     of Appraisal
                                                                          USD millions USD millions       %
Private Sector                          Contribution to training cost and         0.95          0.19         19.7
Government                                   Budgetary resources                  0.87          1.44        165.1
IDA (*)                                               Credit                      3.50          3.69        105.5
Total                                                                             5.32          5.32        100.0
(*) Higher credit amount results from more favorable exchange rates.




                                                          20
                              Annex 2. Outputs by Component

1.     The Project’s expected targets under Components 1 and 2 were modified under
the December 2011 and April 2013 Project restructuring:.


                                       Outputs by Component
                             Intermediate Outcome 1 (i.e., Component 1)
       To increase levels of training among unemployed youth through the establishment of a
      competitive training scheme that finances private sector-driven training and traineeships.
Indicator 1
Number of unemployed youth enrolled in the training (Target value: 945)
Exceeded (124% level of achievement). A total of 1.170 unemployed youth were enrolled in the
program.
Indicator 2
Percentage of enrolled youth that become certified one year after the start of the training (Target
value: 65%)
Exceeded (121% level of achievement). Average certification rate was 95.6 percent (to be
updated).
Indicator 3
Percentage of enrolled youth in training in other sectors than hospitality (Target value: 38%)
Exceeded (132% level of achievement). Percentage of enrolled youth in training in other sectors
than hospitality was 50 percent.
                             Intermediate Outcome 2 (i.e., Component 2)
        To develop an improved policy framework for delivering training by enhancing OECS
  collaboration in training and introducing occupational standards to increase quality and value of
                                                training.
Indicator 4
Number of pre-qualified or accredited training providers (Target value: 117)
Exceeded (104% level of achievement). Number of pre-qualified or accredited training providers
was 122.
Indicator 5
Number of occupational standards vetted (Target value: 87)
Exceeded (116% level of achievement). A total of 101 occupational standards vetted and
formally adopted.
Indicator 6
National Qualifications register in operation (Target value: Yes)
Achieved. A National Qualifications register is operational.
Indicator 7
Action plan to improve the relevance and sustainability of training, including: a) Study for career
mobility; and b) Labor market needs assessment (Target value: Yes)
Achieved. The study for career mobility and the labor market needs assessment were completed
in 2009 and 2012, respectively.
                             Intermediate Outcome 3 (i.e., Component 3)
   To strengthen institutional capacity to better implement, monitor and plan training through the
                          strengthening of the Project implementing agencies
Indicator 9
Percentage of above indicators and of additional implementation indicators reported on a yearly
basis by NSDC (Target value: 100%)
Achieved (100% level of achievement). All indicators are regularly monitored and reported.




                                                21
                          Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis

1.      The Project’s efficiency is considered to be Modest. Although the unit
certification cost (i.e., cost of certified trainee) was about 1.5 percent lower than
anticipated (i.e., US$2,767.00 per certification anticipated at appraisal versus an actual
per capita cost of US$2,726.00), and the actual average unit cost of training was higher
US$1,361.9 compared to US$907 at appraisal, the rate of return remains high. This is
mainly the result of two factors. First, actual certification outcomes were substantial (88
percent compared to appraisal) and exceeded those specified at the 2011 and 2013
restructurings (154 percent and 275 percent, respectively). Second, the GoSL made the
strategic decision to increase the focus on Level 2 NVQ/CVQ and international
certification, which represented higher training costs than Level 1 training, but resulted in
a higher probability of employment. Out of the 1,119 youth certified, 234 received
international certification and 218 received Level 2 NVQ/CVQ.

2.      The Project’s economic efficiency is also illustrated by the results from an
economic analysis of the training component, which yields an 8.5 percent Internal
Economic Rate of Return (IERR) 19 for Component 1 alone. It assumed that, over the next
ten years, those who received training and certification under the Project will have a 20
percent increase in the probability of employment relative to their peers who did not
receive any training. It is also assumed that the impact will be 50 percent higher among
those that received Level 2 NVQ/CVQ training or international certification (i.e., 30
percent increase). Having obtained regionally recognized CVQs and international
certification, trainees now have expanded employment opportunities within and outside
CARICOM, thus effectively increasing the probability of being employed.

3.      The analysis also assumes a 15 percent increase in per capita wages among those
that received training and certification at Level 1. For those that received training at
Level 2, the impact is expected to be twice as much among those that obtained Level 2
NVQs/CVQs or International certification (i.e., 30 percent). Research in other countries
indicates that competency-based training and certification can yield comparable increases
in wage. For example, in its analysis of the Mexican National System of Competency
Standards, Skills Testing, Calderón (2000) findings suggest a 17 percent improvement in
hourly wages, relative to not having been trained. 20

4.      The benefits from training and certification derive from the increase in wage mass
for the target group that can be attributed to the training program taking into account: i)




19
     No IERR was calculated at appraisal.
20
   Calderón, A. (2000), The Mexican National System of Competency Standards, Skills Testing and
Certification: Measuring the benefits of on the job training and discussing the economic rationale for not
passing the government the bill for the certification of workers skills, Paper prepared for the Conference
“Lifelong Learning as an Affordable Investment” Hosted by the OECD and Canada, Montreal December 6-
8, 2000.


                                                   22
unemployed persons who would otherwise have no wages; and ii) employed persons who
would receive higher wages.

5.      A sensitivity analysis was also conducted to assess the efficiency of the training
under different scenarios, as the Project’s full impact on the probability of being
employed and wages cannot yet be determined due to several reasons, including the fact
that most trainees completed their training in August 2013. As shown in Table 2, an
increase in average wage income of 15-20 percent is needed (i.e., 18.2 percent) to ensure
a positive rate of return with discount rates of 5, 7.5 and 10 percent compared to 20
percent at appraisal. These results indicate that the Project is almost as efficient as at
appraisal despite the lower than anticipated number of youth certified and the unfavorable
economic conditions currently prevailing in Saint Lucia as a result of the global financial
and economic crisis.

    Table 2. Rate of return of training under several discount and wage increase
                                      scenarios

                                           d=discount
                                              rate
                                                   5%      7.5%                10%
                                      1%      -82.26%   -83.07%            -83.76%
         B = Increase in wage mass    5%      -52.91%   -56.99%            -60.40%
                                     10%      -16.23%   -24.38%            -31.21%
                                     15%       20.45%     8.23%             -2.02%
                                     20%       57.14%    40.84%             27.17%
                                     25%       93.82%    73.45%             56.36%
                                     30%     130.50%    106.05%             85.55%
                                     35%     167.18%    138.66%            114.74%
                                     40%     203.86%    171.27%            143.92%


6.      The positive economic impact of the Project is also supported the establishment of
an improved policy and institutional framework that includes an industry-vetted,
regionally recognized occupational standards framework that will serve to permanently
improve the quality and value of training in Saint Lucia. Thus, the economic benefits
under the Project should include benefits from competency-based training and
certification in terms of higher probabilities of employment and wages for future cohorts
of trainees and employers. In addition, a system of evaluation and certification of labor
competency may induce workers mobility among firms; a byproduct that will increase a
premium paid for the retention of employees. In contrast, it can also reduce the screening
cost and initial training expenses of workers to be hires, leading to more efficient labor
markets.




                                            23
    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                        Responsibility/
          Names                            Title              Unit
                                                                          Specialty
Lending
Theresa Parrish Beltramo    Junior Professional Associate     LCC3C
Angela Demas                Senior Education Specialist       HDNED
Emmanuel N. Njomo           Consultant                        LCSFM
Cornelia M. Tesliuc         Sr Social Protection Specialis    AFTSE
Christel M. J. Vermeersch   Senior Health Specialist          LCSHH
Evelyn Villatoro            Senior Procurement Specialist     EASR1
David Seth Warren           Sector Leader                     LCC3C

Supervision/ICR
Nancy N. Agwu               Finance Analyst                   CTRLD
Harriet Nannyonjo           Senior Education Specialist       LCSHE
Mary A. Dowling             Program Assistant                 LCSHE
Angela Demas                Senior Education Specialist       LCSHE
Erik Bloom                  Senior Economist                  LCSHE
Que P. Bui                  Procurement Asst.                 LCSHH
Chingboon Lee               Sector Manager                    LCSHE
Reema Nayar                 Sector Manager                    LCSHE
Henry Forero Ramirez        Senior Information Officer         TWICT
Viviana A. Gonzalez         Program Assistant                 LCSHH
Saman Karunaratne           Finance Analyst                   CTRLD
Svetlana V. Klimenko        Sr Financial Management Specia    LCSFM
Daniela Marotta             Senior Economist                  MNSED
Thomas Patrick McArdle      Consultant                        LCSHE
Judith C. Morroy            Consultant                        LCSHH
Yuki Murakami               Education Economist               LCSHE
Maria Lourdes Noel          Senior Program Assistant          LCSEN
Rolande Simone Pryce        Senior Operations Officer          AFTG2
Alonso Sanchez              Consultant                        HDNED
Nazumi Takeda               Consultant                        HDNED
Cornelia M. Tesliuc         Sr Social Protection Specialis     AFTSE
Christel M. J. Vermeersch   Senior Health Specialist          LCSHH
David Seth Warren           Sector Leader                    LCC3CMDI
Janet Entwistle             Senior Operations Officer         LCSHE




                                            24
(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                      Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands (including
                                   No. of staff weeks
                                                          travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY06                                                               120.69
  FY07                                                               131.23
  FY08                                                                 0.00
                          Total:                                     251.92
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                                                 0.00
  FY07                                                                 2.53
  FY08                                                                81.99
 FY09                                                                 59.53
 FY10                                                                 62.19
 FY11                                                                 66.30
 FY12                                                                119.30
 FY13                                                                 75.02
 FY14                                                                 21.78
                          Total:                                     488.66




                                       25
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
          Not Applicable




                26
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
                  Not Applicable




                      27
       Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

 1. Background: The Government of Saint Lucia signed a financing agreement with
the International Development Association for the financing of the OECS Skills for
Inclusive Growth Project. The Project became effective on December 19, 2007. The
funding was to assist the Government of Saint Lucia in increasing the employability of
youth, which includes marginalized sections of the population, through private sector
driven training. This would however require training/retraining, enterprise developmental
initiatives and certification The Project was designed to build a sustainable base by (i)
increasing the levels of training among unemployed youth through the establishment of a
competitive training scheme that finances private sector-driven training, (ii) to develop an
improved policy framework for delivering training by enhancing OECS collaboration in
training and introducing occupational standards to increase quality and value of training,
and (iii) to strengthen institutional capacity to better implement, monitor and plan
training. However, due to the global economic down turn the Project was restructured
twice December 2011 and March 2013 which resulted in a change of the indicators, an
increase to the cost of training and a revised closing date of September 15, 2013. The
implementing agency was the Ministry of Education, Human Resources and Labour
(MOE) through the Technical, Vocational, Education and Training (TVET) Unit. In
addition, through a Subsidiary Agreement the National Skills Development Centre
(NSDC) an approved Training Centre was selected to implement the Skills Training
Component as well as certain aspects of Component three while the Project Coordination
Unit (PCU) of the Ministry of Finance, Economic Affairs, Planning and Social Security
was responsible for the fiduciary aspects of the Project.

2. Skills training and outreach to unemployed youth is a priority to Saint Lucia and is
clearly articulated in the: (i) The 2005-2008 Macroeconomic Prospects and Medium-term
Economic Strategy which highlighted the need to reduce unemployment and poverty
rates, as one of the seven medium term goals; (ii) The Ministry of Education
Development Plan for 2006-2010 which places continued emphasis on raising the level of
achievement of all learners, reforming the management of education, and improving the
relevance of the secondary curriculum and introduction of alternative modes of
certification. and the (iii) The 2005 Tourism Sector Strategy and Action Plan emphasizes
the goal of building the human resource base to meet the existing and developing needs
of the sector and, in particular, to develop occupational standards for tourism industry
jobs.

3. Saint Lucia’s commitment to these strategies is demonstrated through the
establishment of a framework for TVET which includes legislation, TVET Council and a
national Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Unit to serve as the
operating arm of the Council. Saint Lucia’s commitment to the CARICOM TVET
strategy was reinforced through the implementation of the OECS Skills for Inclusive
Growth Project which sought to provide quality skills training and certification that
would allow mobility of skills trained nationals across the region.




                                            28
4. Despite the major global financial crisis and the many challenges encountered the
GOSL was able to meet the developmental objective of the project. The assistance
provided by the World Bank was invaluable which allowed for a more flexible and
responsive approach to implementation which enabled Saint Lucia to be better able to
meet the PDOs.

Quality at Entry

5. Skills Training in particular technical and vocational education training continues to
be a priority for Saint Lucia as the Country is confronted with an upsurge of crime, high
levels of dropouts from secondary schools and the poor achievement of students from
secondary schools which is heavily driven by academia. In addition, many employees at
major hotels and other workplaces lack the necessary certification for mobility. While
they possess the necessary experience they have not been certified. Therefore, lack of
certification makes it difficult for them to take advantage of emerging opportunities that
will become available through the OECS integration and CARICOM CSME. The project
design should have catered for persons already employed seeking to obtain certification
and assessment of prior learning. Despite that Saint Lucia sought to partner with private
sector to undertake prior learning assessments to enable employees to be equipped with
the necessary certification.

6. At the start of the project consultations were held mainly with the NSDC (the agency
brokering training for out of school youth) and the Hotel and Tourism Association.
However, with the installment of a new administration in 2006 there was a request to
include other sectors so it would have been useful to hold consultations with other donor
partners as well as other private sector organizations. To support this request, the project
included a consultancy to carry out a study on expanding training into the other sectors.
The main results were identification of new training areas based on demand that could be
offered under the project. Perhaps the implementation of a social and economic
assessment would have better contributed to the project design as many of trainees had
several social vulnerabilities that required interventions and involvement of the Division
of Human Services.

7. A disadvantage for Saint Lucia was that the project design was the replication of a
training fund model from Latin America and the wider Caribbean region in particular
Jamaica. However, with assistance from the Bank the Project was able to adapt to the
needs of Saint Lucia. While funding was provided to strengthen the institutional capacity
of the MOE through the provision of additional staff it would have been more beneficial
for the Project Manager to be housed at the MOE for effective monitoring and evaluation
of the Project.

8. Conceivably, it might have been better to source grant funding or project preparatory
funds towards establishment of the qualification framework and then the second phase
could have focused on skills training and certification. Immense focus was placed on
skills training therefore this component was seen as priority. Extensive emphasis was
placed on the establishment of a training fund in the absence of an operationalized


                                            29
certification framework. Saint Lucia already had in place the necessary legislation for
issuance of the CVQ however a cadre of trained assessors and verifiers was needed for its
implementation. Given that one of the PDOs was the number of CVQs issued; this was
presumptuous and could not be achieved until Saint Lucia received CVQ status in 2013.
If there had been regard to such preparatory work; the operational framework for
achieving the PDO would have been met much earlier.

9. The institutional arrangements for project implementation were clearly defined
however leadership and ownership of the project was a major concern. The Project
Coordination Unit, which was established prior to effectiveness of the project, was
satisfactorily structured to effectively coordinate project activities. The Project required
the establishment of a Steering Committee which included MOE, MOF. During
implementation Saint Lucia made changes to the composition of the Steering Committee
to include members of the TVET Council to ensure sustainability of initiatives.

An assessment of the Operations, Objective, Design, Implementation and
Operational Experience

10. The Project objective had three intermediate outcomes with associated lines of
action: (i) to increase levels of training among unemployed youth through the
establishment of a competitive training scheme that finances private sector-driven
training, (ii) to develop an improved policy framework for delivering training by
enhancing OECS collaboration in training and introducing occupational standards to
increase quality and value of training, and (iii) to strengthen institutional capacity to
better implement, monitor and plan training. Overall the objective and intermediate
outcomes were met and the project implementation can be rated as satisfactory. The
project was restructured so that it was better able to respond to the realities of Saint Lucia
thereby adjusting the IDA’s allocation to meet the nonexistent private sector
contributions and inclusion of other qualifications apart from the CVQ certification. The
restructuring allowed for the issuance of NVQ and international certification.

11. The original project design was flawed and may have contributed to the initial delays
experienced by the project. The project design required the execution of the Subsidiary
Agreement between the implementing agency, MOE and the NSDC thereby shifting the
focus to skills training rather than on certification. It was not necessary for the execution
of the Subsidiary Agreement to be a condition for effectiveness of the loan given that
Saint Lucia was in the process of developing the system for certification which included
quality training for training providers, assessors, verifiers, validation of standards. In
addition, the executing agency, the Ministry of Education already has oversight over the
National Skills Development Centre (NSDC) which forms part of the Agency therefore a
Subsidiary Agreement was not required. Prior to project effectiveness the NSDC was
under the auspices of the Ministry of Social Transformation however by project
negotiations and after the general elections of 2006 that Ministry became part of the
MOE.




                                             30
12. Due to the global economic downturn the Project experienced several delays. Other
contributors to delays were (a) the absence of the operational systems (b) staffing to
support the system for certification and (c) limited training providers with the necessary
equipment to undertake training. Some of the Trainees selected for training were not
functionally literate to participate in training therefore; mechanisms had to be effected to
address literacy and numeracy gaps.

13. While the Financing Agreement emphasized the need for regional collaboration with
the OECS through monitoring and evaluation for impact across the OECS, the Project
was being implemented in only two OECS countries, Grenada and Saint Lucia. Despite
this the Project was able to effectively collaborate with Grenada on the development of
the monitoring and evaluation framework for both Projects. Such collaboration included
the sharing of information, templates for the design of forms and development of a
common and compatible management information system used to evaluate the impact of
the project across the two countries. Several meetings were held in both countries to
develop and finalise the monitoring and evaluation systems for the project and TVET.
Other regional collaborations were undertaken with CARICOM CANTA, Barbados and
Jamaica which included the acquisition of approved standards, workshops on standards
preparation and the establishment of a qualification databank that can be accessed by
other OECS countries through the joint MIS initiative. This enabled a strong regional
dimension and building on the ongoing thrust of regional integration (CARICOM and
OECS). This also facilitated the maximization of ongoing synthesis within the region
and recapitalization on the economies of scale.

14. There was also collaboration with another development partner; the European Union
(EU) which funded training in the Agricultural Sector and other sectors. The EU funded
project and the World Bank OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project identified
synergies that allowed for training of plumbers, butchers, bee keepers and farmers. This
enabled sensitization and wide spread use of regionally approved standards by
implementers of EU funded projects. These collaborations enabled cost savings
opportunities for the GOSL as well as the promotion of TVET regionally approved
framework and certification of more trainees. Collaboration was undertaken with the
CIDA “Education for Employment Caribbean” Project of Canada which allowed Saint
Lucia to share on the development of the MIS and the labour market needs assessment.

15. The implementation arrangements functioned effectively most of the times although
there were inherent challenges with some of the processes. The fiduciary arrangements
were such that the PCU undertook financial and project management which worked well
with the MOE and NSDC responsible for the management and training during the project.
The World Bank Task Team Leader and the entire team responsible for the project were
excellent in providing guidance and assistance during the challenging periods and for this
the Government of Saint Lucia (GOSL) is forever grateful.




                                            31
16. The success and satisfactory rating achieved at project closure was as a result of the
level of commitment of the staff of the Bank and the GOSL. Through a South-South
Exchange program financed by the World Bank and the hosting of the annual fiduciary
workshops the Project team were able to participate in a study tour to Columbia to visit
various training centres and to observe the various innovative technology used for the
delivery of training. The fiduciary training of 2009 hosted by the World Bank allowed
the Project team to collaborate with Jamaica on the development of the terms of reference
for the MIS.

17. This project has been able to achieve in a few years what may have taken longer for
the GOSL to achieve on its own recognisance and so efforts to sustain the momentum
must be a priority of the education sector. For sustainability and to leverage funding the
GOSL has developed a strategic plan and carried out an assessment of the TVET Unit to
determine skills gaps and develop a talent management strategy. These investments
under the OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth will enable the MOE to reorganize the work
functions of existing units and sections of the ministry to better support the functions of
TVET. Saint Lucia took advantage of the economic downturn experienced globally and
locally by ensuring that at least 916 individuals were well-trained and certified to
complement the developed workforce to meet labour market needs essential to improving
the economy.

Restructuring: problems encountered, actions taken, solutions.

18. The Project was restructured twice in an effort to respond to the global changes that
had negatively impacted implementation of the project and contributed to the significant
delays under the project. The first restructuring was done on December 15, 2011 to
reallocate financing under the Project such that the contribution that was to be made by
the Private sector was financed by the IDA resources and the GOSL; the closing date was
extended to September 15, 2013. The second major change done on March 13, 2013
sought to revise the PDO and indicators in order to better measure the Project’s impact on
the employability of youth over the long term.

Assessment of the Outcome

19. Through the collaborative approach with the involvement of private sector,
sensitization workshops, participation as industry advisors, and training opportunities the
project was able to meet the developmental objective; to increase the employability of
youth through private-sector driven training. Saint Lucia also obtained accreditation
status from CARICOM CANTA to issue the CVQ prior to project closure; which is a
tremendous success.

The achievements, successes, challenges and lessons learned during the life of the project
are outlined below.




                                            32
Main Project Achievements

     Project Development            Project Outcome Indicators (POI)              Outcome
           Objectives
To increase the employability     1) Percentage of enrolled youth
of youth through private sector   employed fifteen months after the start of
                                                                                     43%
driven training                   the training.

                                  2) Number of Youth Certified at Level 1      Total – 1,119
                                  or Above. Target 407                         (increase over
                                                                               the target -
                                                                               175%)




Component 1: Skills Training for Unemployed Youth

This component implemented by the NSDC focused on the operation and expansion of a
training scheme for disadvantaged, unemployed youth. This scheme was originally
intended to provide training for 1,850 unemployed youth and placement in traineeships
with private sector firms to gain on-the-job experience. Through the restructuring this
target was reduced to 945. By project close 1,170 trainees were enrolled in training.
Initially the firms were to contribute to the training costs and to pay the trainees a stipend
however; due to the global economic downturn the private sector firms were unable to do
so. The GOSL remained committed to the project and provided counterpart funding.
Training was delivered in a number of training areas within the four sectors: Hospitality,
Construction, Agriculture and Information Communication and Technology.

20. All Trainees (1,170 youth enrolled) had to undergo Productivity Enhancement
Training (PET) for a minimum of 60 hours. This included life skills training to equip
trainees with the necessary skills, aptitudes and attitudes required to function effectively
in the course and subsequently on the job. Career counseling was also offered as part of
the training to allow the trainees to be placed in an industry suitable to their skill set and
aptitude in order for the matching process to be effective. This was based on feedback
received after delivery of training in Cycle 1; training Providers and employers were
included in that process. During implementation Life Skills Counsellor and Career
Counsellors performed similar roles although the Terms of Reference for these positions
were different. This was necessary given the limited expertise, with only five counsellors
providing services to such a large number of individuals as well as to persons enrolled in
other ongoing skills training initiatives directly under the NSDC. This enabled
knowledge sharing and capacity building among the counselors who had developed in–
house Life Skills Modules as a means of mitigating the negative impact and ensuring
quality. These Life Skills Modules also served well as guidelines for mentors at the work
place.




                                              33
21. During the screening process it was found that many of the trainees lacked the
necessary literacy skills to adequately function/participate in the training process.
Therefore under the project, a literacy tool “AutoSkill” was procured and installed at
fifteen (15) centres 21 island-wide to bridge learning deficiencies. The number of user
licenses obtained under the Project was 175 concurrent user licenses; which enables 350
youth to access the software simultaneously for numeracy and literacy training. This
initiative was realized through collaboration with the SSDF funded by the EU. Under the
SSDF the Master License for Saint Lucia for a three year term had been procured which
the Supplier agreed to extend given that Saint Lucia had not effectively utilized the
software.

22. The MOE also procured 5 user licenses for five schools located in rural communities
(Fond Assau, Roseau, Marchand, Methodist, Odsan) using funding from the Peace Corps
while 15 user licenses had already been procured for the Bordelais Correctional Facility
through the Saint Lucia HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project funded by the World
Bank. Based on the successes made by the BCF, Bahamas and Jamaica in using the
software the GOSL agreed to expand this initiative at the national level for easy access to
youth seeking to enroll in skills training or desirous of improving their literacy levels
while undertaking skills training. To support this initiative literacy training centre
administrators were hired.

23. A challenge for trainees was the late receipt of stipends. This often resulted from late
submission of attendance reports and trainees not having personal bank accounts for the
funds to be deposited. This was later regularized but may have contributed to the dropout
rate of trainees during the project. The Project however, assisted a number of trainees in
obtaining birth certificates, National ID cards, Social Security Cards and the opening of
bank accounts which are essential to function effectively as productive citizens. Many
trainees had other personal and social issues which may have impacted the high dropout
rates. While the project was an education project it depended heavily on interventions
with Human Services and the health sector. Maybe provision should have been made for
the hiring of social workers or the project team could have fostered greater involvement
and partnership with the Department of Human Services.




21
     Centres include Secondary Schools, Libraries, Combined Schools and other institutions



                                             34
   Intermediate Outcomes                 Intermediate Outcome /Output               Outcome
                                         Indicators
   Component 1: Skills Training for Unemployed Youth
                                          1) Number of unemployed youth
                                           enrolled in training. Target 945                1170
   Sub-component 1.1: Training Scheme
    To increase levels of training among
                                           2) Percentage of enrolled youth              95.6(1,119/
       unemployed youth through the
                                            that become certified one year                 1170)
       establishment of a competitive
                                             after the start of the training.
   training scheme that finances private
                                                      Target 65%
         sector-driven training and
                                                                                        50(590/1170
                traineeships
                                         3) Percentage of trainees in sectors                )
                                          other than tourism. - Target 38%
                                          1) Number of Employers enrolled
    Employer Support for Traineeships         in providing support for the                 277
                                                        training.


Other Achievements:

Training offered in 26 skill areas
The public private partnership allowed several private companies to participate in a government
project; this enhanced relationships. A total of 277 companies were involved in this project
122 Training Providers trained in areas such as methods, quality assurance, use of standards
Certification issued by way of NVQ, CVQ and International qualification
Training facilities at schools, NSDC and CARE upgraded to provide quality training
Procured training equipment to support skills training in hospitality, electrical installation,
construction and ICT Procurement of training equipment for the NSDC and CARE
Development of Life Skills Modules
Training provided to Career and Life Skills Counsellors
A Communication strategy was developed and implemented throughout the life of the project
Promotional items and paraphernalia were designed and published for promotion, advocacy and
sensitization
AutoSkill literacy and numeracy software implemented
12. Procurement of training kits for trainees in nail technology, cookery, electrical




Component 2: Improving the policy framework for training

 24. This component was intended to support activities to improve the policy framework
for delivering training. However, funding was used primarily to build/establish the
operational framework for TVET training and certification. Given that certification is
based on competency standards and industry standards assessors were trained on the use
of standards and to carry out assessments. Through extensive collaboration with
CARICOM, CANTA and the OECS the project was able to reap benefits of economies of
scale. This was realized through the procurement of standards and the introduction and
development of competency based standards used to increase the quality and value of


                                                 35
training. The introduction of competency based standards was achieved through
exchanges with HEART Trust of Jamaica; which was contracted to supply 101 standards
in different training areas for the key industries including: Hospitality, Agriculture,
Construction and IT. Training was also delivered on the development of standards with
assistance from TVET, Barbados. These investments enabled the GOSL to strengthen
the training system for TVET thus allowing for sustainability beyond the life of the
project.

25. To govern the operations relating to issuance of the CVQ a Quality Assurance
framework and Manual was developed to guide the implementation of the regionally
approved policies for TVET and certification endorsed by CARICOM member states.
The Manual clearly articulates the guidelines and procedures to be adhered to as it relates
to the issuance of the NVQ/ CVQ as per the regionally endorsed qualification framework
and in conformity to relevant standards. Local industry Advisory Committees were set
up for the validation of regionally approved standards and endorsed by the Minister of the
MOE for use by Saint Lucia. Industry Advisory groups comprised pedagogy experts in
the subject area and industry personnel. Approval of standards by the policy directorate
allowed Saint Lucia to issue the NVQ while approval of the quality assurance framework
enabled Saint Lucia to attain the CVQ status in May 2013 conveyed by CARICOM to
issue the CVQ. Accreditation of CVQ status to Grenada and Saint Lucia on the same day
was unprecedented as both countries were the first in the OECS sub-region to acquire this
prestigious award.

26. Through extensive outreach and sensitization the Project prequalified 122 training
providers that will form part of the Accreditation system following periodic reviews.
These training providers who are nationals will assist in sustainability of initiatives as
they would be available to provide future training towards the attainment of CVQ and
NVQ certification. With a view to testing the system and increasing the number of youth
certified the MOE expanded the project deliverables through collaborations with regional
and international partners.

27. Through these public private partnerships other programs such as the Caribbean
Youth Empowerment Program (CYEP) got the opportunity to register 64 trainees through
the Project to obtain international certification conveyed by Monroe College, Saint Lucia
Campus. These trainees enrolled by the NSDC had followed the training model of the
project. The MOE took advantage of every opportunity to increase the number of youth
certified and therefore undertook pilot initiatives with secondary schools, a half-way
house for girls, CARE, Bordelais Correctional Facility and the Ministry of Agriculture.
As a result of this, 100 youth were certified at the CVQ level and 234 youth obtained
international certification from AHLEI and Monroe College, Saint Lucia Campus. This
was in six areas namely: Office Administration, Bar Operations & Mixology, Data
Operations 1 & 2, Housekeeping, Culinary Arts and Customer Service, General
Maintenance.




                                            36
28. Overall through collaboration with NSDC, Monroe College and CIIHMC the MOE
was able to provide certification to 1,119 youth that will allow them to become more
marketable and to move freely within CARICOM. Certified youth achieving CVQ can
now migrate to any of the member states of CARICOM to obtain employment as per
CSME and OECS integration policies. Trainees obtaining international qualification
have new opportunities as these trainees are able to pursue higher education (bachelor’s
degree) at any college recognised by AHLEI or Monroe College in Saint Lucia (or the
United States).

29. The project envisaged the development of policy action plans. To meet this
requirement a Labour Market Needs Assessment was undertaken; which will enable Saint
Lucia to identify training needs and job opportunities based on demand in the sectors.
This will also assist Saint Lucia to prioritize future training needs.

30. These achievements will improve TVET considerably and will lead to greater
employment opportunities and employability of the youth from marginalized sections of
the population. Trained Assessors, Verifiers and Auditors available are an invaluable
asset to support TVET and will enable continuity, sustainability and expansion of TVET.
The public private partnership approach with private training institutions and employers
is a solid foundation and a good model for continuity of the investment.

31. The GOSL remains committed to TVET and therefore conducted an exercise to
evaluate the outcomes and impact of the Project. Through this exercise the Ministry
intends to improve the effectiveness of TEVT through a self-evaluation process, obtain
lessons learnt, share knowledge and experiences, and demonstrate accountability for the
project results.

 Component 2: Improving the policy framework for training
 Sub-component 2.1:                         1) Number of
 To develop an improved policy framework    NVQ, CVQ or                 TOTAL – 1,146
 for delivering training by enhancing OECS  International
 collaboration in training and introducing  certifications
 occupational standards to increase quality awarded. Target
 and value of training:                     407

 Quality assurance for the certification system    2) Number of              122
                                                   Prequalified
                                                   training providers
 Operationalization of a certification system
                                                   3) National
                                                   Qualifications           Yes
                                                   register in
                                                   operation




                                                  37
 Sub-component 2.2:                               1) Labour Market             Completed
 To improve policy framework for delivering       Needs
 training by development of Policy Action         Assessment
 Plans
                                                  2) Action plan to    Strategic Plan developed
                                                  improve the          To evaluate outcomes and
                                                  relevance and            leverage funding
                                                  sustainability of
                                                  training
 Percentage of Indicators reported Annually                            100%




 Other Achievements:
 Subcomponent 2.1 Introduce occupational standards, certification, and quality
 assurance

 101 standards were acquired and validated
 A cadre of trained assessors, verifiers and auditors; Sixty seven (67) assessors and forty (40)
 verifiers in sub disciplines under four (4) core areas (Hospitality, Construction, Agriculture and
 ICT) were trained
 Industry advisory groups formed
 Partnerships formed with international institutions such as Monroe College of the USA and
 CIIHMC
 12 persons trained as Master Trainers
 Attainment of CVQ status from CARICOM
 30 Industrial Advisory Committees
 A quality assurance system to support certification
 Partnerships with other projects and companies from various industries on the use of industry
 standards
 Partnership formed with private training institutions and employers
 Labour Market Needs Assessment conducted to identify training needs and new employment
 areas.


Component 3: Project management and institutional strengthening

Achievements

32. The MIS was established through a joint procurement process with Grenada and will
be a repository for all TVET activities. The MIS was launched and the system will
provide both countries with a web based application system that can be used to monitor
and track the entire training process including assessments. The system can be accessed
by trainees, training providers and employers. Equipment was procured for the NSDC to
support the National MIS. Initially, it was intended that the system be housed and
managed at the NSDC however management decided that the system be housed at the
MOE given that TVET is a national system. In the final year of implementation of the
Project the IT Unit of MOE became involved and provided technical support to TVET on


                                                38
the system. Prior to the inclusion of the IT Unit of the MOE the IT Unit of the NSDC
provided the necessary technical support. The Project also provided assistance to staff at
the NSDC to undertake training in IT necessary for the development of the MIS.

33. A Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (M&E) was hired to provide support to the
Project. That expertise resided at the NSDC. In retrospect the M&E should have formed
part of TVET to provide information for national decision making purposes and to
support the TVET framework. However, the M&E provided support to the NSDC
research and data entry clerks. Training was provided on data collection, use of forms
and analyses. Information exchange between the NSDC and MOE was regular to support
calls for demand training and further analysis and decision making. Staff of the NSDC
and MOE also participated in a general M&E training provided by the WB under the
Second Disaster Management Project.

34. A Project Officer, Secretary and Quality Assurance Officer were hired to provide
support to TVET. These staff provided support in standards validation, review of reports
from assessor, verifiers and auditors. The PCU of the MOF provided support to the
Project with the coordination of project activities, preparation of evaluation reports for
training proposals, convening of steering committee meetings. The PCU also assisted by
providing training in procurement.

35. It was a requirement that a steering committee be formed comprising MOEA and
MOE to provide oversight and guidance on policy. At the initial stages there were
difficulties in convening a meeting of the steering committee. Given that the Education
Act makes provision for a TVET Council and the project was developing the quality
assurance system for TVET it would have been better to use the TVET Council as the
Steering Committee with agencies such as MOEA, NSDC and TVET reporting to the
Council for further decision making.

Evaluation of the Borrower's performance

36. Being cognizant of the global financial situation during the period of implementation
the GOSL performed satisfactory.

Evaluation of the Bank’s Performance

37. In the initial stages the Bank appeared to be inflexible which resulted in the Project
having three Task Team Leaders during its implementation. The changes made towards
project closure contributed to the overall success of the Project; therefore the Bank’s
performance is rated as satisfactory.

Proposed Arrangements for Future Operations

38. The GOSL has developed a strategic plan including an implementation plan, a plan
for sustainability and a talent management strategy that will be used to strengthen
operations within TVET. Through analyses of the outcome of the Project the GOSL is


                                           39
well ahead in providing TVET with the necessary resources that it requires for managing
and operating TVET nationally. The PCU has transferred essential equipment procured
under the Project to the MOE to assist with digitalizing of all certification issued. The
TVET Unit is collaborating with other initiatives such as CARCIP and NICE as new
partnerships in ensuring that persons trained have access to the MIS and can apply
directly to TVET for certification. The GOSL is also committed to continued
collaboration with the partnering agencies with which relationships have already been
formed. The MOE is moving steadily to commence assessment of prior learning through
the creation of partnerships with companies such as LUCELEC. Having established a
quality regionally accredited framework Saint Lucia should utilize the partnerships with
developed countries for temporary labour opportunities. This would assist in alleviating
the current high rates of unemployment among the youth and other marginalized
population. Currently, there are farming, nursing, home help, hotel worker and
construction opportunities in Canada and the United States.

Challenges

39. The availability of financial resources will always pose a challenge in particular for
small island states. The emerging opportunities that TVET will provide will require that
training providers remain current as well as for training agents and counselors to acquire
the necessary skills and techniques to effectively monitor the delivery of training.
Funding is also required for the MOE to continue to build on the TVET operational
systems. Sustainability of investments in particular systems, structures and the delivery
of quality of education must be provided for, therefore, continued collaboration and
partnerships must be fostered.

Lessons Learnt

      Projects of this nature require a multi-sectorial approach for its successful
       implementation
      Collaboration with other line ministries is important for the success of TVET
      Increased collaboration can enhance advocacy and promotion of the regionally
       endorsed certification framework
      Increased collaboration will contribute to leverage of funding and cost savings for
       the GOSL
      The inclusion of life skills programs add value for trainees, program managers
       and employers
      At the preparation stage of projects all stakeholders must be informed and be
       involved
      Project design should not be presumptuous such that plans are not articulated for
       changes in the economy (risk analysis needs to be strengthened)
      This project clearly demonstrated that “one size does not fit all” – the Latin
       America and larger country models may not work for small island states
      Implementing agencies must be strengthened to adequately implement the project
      Project management and associated staffing should reside within the
       implementing agency


                                           40
   While the Bank has its guidelines Task Team Leaders must understand the
    environment in which they work and should be willing to make the necessary
    changes when the need arises
   The Project required the establishment of a Steering Committee which included
    MOE, MOF. This Steering Committee must include members of the TVET
    Council to ensure sustainability of initiatives.

   Principal Performance Ratings

   (HS = Highly Satisfactory; S = Satisfactory; U = Unsatisfactory; HL = Highly
    Likely; L = Likely; UN = Unlikely; HUN = Highly Unlikely; HU = Highly
    Unsatisfactory; H = High; SU = Substantial; M = Modest; N = Negligible)
   Outcome:        S                  Borrower Performance: S
   Sustainability: L                  Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
   Quality at Entry: S                Institutional Development Impact: H
   Bank Performance: S




                                     41
Annex 8. Comments of Co-financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
                          Not Applicable




                               42
                       Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (2012), Education Sector Strategy 2012-2021:
    Every Learner Succeeds, May 2012.
St. Catherine, E. (2013), Analysis of the Saint Lucia Labour Needs Assessment Survey
    2012, Central Statistics Office, May 14, 2013, Castries, Saint Lucia
St. Lucia (2013), An Agenda For Economic Growth and Fiscal Sustainability, Budget
    Statement 2013 Delivered by the Hon. Dr. Kenny Davis Anthony Prime Minister and
    Minister for Finance, Economic Affairs, Planning & Social Security to support the
    appropriation bill for the financial year ending March 31, 2014 Tuesday May 14,
    2013, Parliament Chamber, Castries, Saint Lucia.
World Bank (2007-2013), St. Lucia - OECS (Grenada) Skills for Inclusive Growth
    Project. Aide Memoires, Implementation Status Results Reports (ISRs) Sequences 1
    to 11, and other documents in Project Files, World Bank, Washington D.C.
World Bank (2013), St. Lucia - OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project; Restructuring,
    World Bank, Washington D.C.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2013/03/17462493/st-lucia-oecs-skills-
    inclusive-growth-project-restructuring
World Bank (2011), World Bank Education Strategy 2020: Learning for All - Investing
    in People’s Knowledge and Skills to Promote Development, Washington D.C. - The
    World Bank.
    9http://web.worldbank.org/WBSITE/EXTERNAL/TOPICS/EXTEDUCATION/0,,co
    ntentMDK:22474207~menuPK:282402~pagePK:210058~piPK:210062~theSitePK:2
    82386,00.html0
World Bank (2011), St. Lucia - OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project (Adaptable
    Program Lending), Restructuring Datasheet, Vol. 2, World Bank, Washington, D.C.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/12/15556339/st-lucia-oecs-skills-
    inclusive-growth-project-adaptable-program-lending-restructuring-vol-2-2-data-sheet
World Bank (2011), St. Lucia - OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project (Adaptable
    Program Lending), Restructuring Main Report, Vol. 1, World Bank, Washington,
    D.C.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2011/12/15556338/st-lucia-oecs-skills-
    inclusive-growth-project-adaptable-program-lending-restructuring-vol-1-2-main-
    report
World Bank (2010), Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) - Regional
    partnership strategy for the period 2010 - 2014. Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2010/05/12298466/organization-eastern-
    caribbean-states-oecs-regional-partnership-strategy-period-2010-2014
World Bank (2007). St. Lucia - OECS Skills for Inclusive Growth Project (Adaptable
    Program Lending), Washington D.C. – The World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2007/04/12329910/st-lucia-oecs-skills-
    inclusive-growth-project-adaptable-program-lending
World Bank (2005), Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS) - Country
    Assistance Strategy. Washington D.C. - The World Bank.
    http://documents.worldbank.org/curated/en/2005/09/6227004/organization-eastern-
    caribbean-states-oecs-country-assistance-strategy



                                          43
                       Meetings Conducted during ICR Mission
Ministry of Education, Human Resource Development and Labour- MoE
Mr. Robert Lewis, Minister
Ms. Esther Brathwaite, Permanent Secretary
Mrs. Estellita Rene – Education Officer (TVET)
Ms. Ruth Charlemagne, Project Officer
Ms. Euthalia Philgence, Quality Assurance
Ms. Marietta Edwards
Mr. Joshua Vernor, ICT
Euthalia Philgence
National Skills Development Center
Ms. Selma St Prix, General Manager
Mrs. Faith- Harry Jn Baptiste
Ms. Mary Francis
Ms. Tara Leonard
Mr. Barry Williams
Bina Mathurin
Ana-Elisa Cadasse
Nathalie Charles
Sharon Fearon
Project Coordinating Unit - PCU
Ms. Cheryl Mathurin, roject Coordinator
Ms. Sonia Alexander, Consultant
Mrs. Rosilia Joseph
Ms. Yasmine Anatole
Mrs. Myrtle Drysdale-Octave
Monroe College
Dr. Alex Ephrem, Vice-President
Trainees
Ms. Laureen Bruno (Customer service)
Ms. Theresa Mathwrine (Office administration)
Training Providers, Assessors, Auditors, and Members of Industry Advisory
Committees
Ms. Elizabeth Andrew Rose (Hospitality);Training provider, assessor, auditor, industry
advisor.
Mr. George Deyon (Construction); Assesor, auditor, industry advisor.
Mr. Nigel Fulgence, Member of the St. Lucia TVET Council, assessor, auditor, industry
advisor.
Mr. Andrew Henry (Commercial food preparation): Training provider, assessor, auditor.
Mr. Kim Montrope (Carpentry; furniture making; general construction); training
provider, assessor.
Mr. Andrew Meroe (Electrical installation); training provider.
World Bank
Harriett Nannyonjo, TTL



                                         44
                                                                                                                                                                                                 IBRD 33487
                                                                           61°00'W                                                                                                   60°50'W

                                                                                                              Saint Lucia Channel
                                                                                                              Cap Point



                                                                                    Pigeon Island
                             SAINT                                                               Gros Islet
                             LUCIA                                                          Rodney Bay




                                                                                                                                                              Cape Marquis
                                                                                                              GROS                            Dauphin
                                                                                   Choc Bay                   ISLET

                                                        Pointe Seraphine
                                                                                                                               DAUPHIN
                                                                                            CASTRIES
                                                                                                                                                     Grand Grand
14°00'N                                                                                                                                              Anse  Anse                                    14°00'N
                                                      Grande Cul                                                                                                Bay
                                                      de Sac Bay
                                                                                             CASTRIES
                                                                                   Sans
                                                                                   Soucis
                                                                                                 Cul de Sac

                                             Marigot Bay
                                                                                 La Croix
                                                                                 Maingot



                                                        Anse La Raye                                                                         Denn




                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                   y
                                                                        ANSE                                               DENNERY                           Fond d'or Bay
                                                                                                                                                                                Caribbean
                                                                       LA RAYE
                                                                          RAYE                                                                Denner y
                                                                                                                                              Dennery                              Sea
                            Canaries        CANARIES



                                                                     Mt. Gimie                                                             Praslin          Praslin Bay
                                                                     (950 m)
                                                        Tabac
                                                    Mt. Tabac
    Grand Caille Point                              (678 m)                                                           PRASLIN                       Mon
                                                                                                                                                                  Trou Gras Point
                               Soufrière                                                                                                            Repos
                      Soufrière Bay               SOUFRIERE
13°50'N                                                                                            Ca                                                                                              13°50'N
                                                                                   Mt. Grand
                                                                                                       ne




                                                                                                              s
                                                                                                         ll e




                      Anse de Piton                                                Magazin
                                                                                    (616 m)                       MICOUD                               Micoud
                                                                                                                                                             Vierge Point
        Gros Piton Point
                                                                                                                          Desurisseau
                                          CHOISEUL
                                                                    Londonderr y
                                                                    Londonderry

                                       Choiseul                     LABORIE                    VIEUX
                                                                                               FORT                                                                                  60°50'W


                                                                             Laborie
                                                                        Laborie
                                                                          Bay                                                                                         S A I N T L U CIA
                                                                                                Vieux Fort                                                                  SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
   0      1       2    3 Kilometers                                                                                             Maria I.
                                                                                             Vieux Fort                                                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL
                                                                                                Bay
                                                                                                                            Cape Moule                                      RIVERS
   0          1         2       3 Miles
                                                                                                                            Chique
                                                                                                                                                                            MAIN ROADS
 This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
 shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                                                                                                                                            QUARTER BOUNDARIES
 Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any                  Saint Vincent Passage                                                                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                           61°00'W

                                                                                                                                                                                               DECEMBER 2004
