Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15434-UZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
August 15, 1996
Infrastructure, Energy and Environment Division
Country Department III
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
CURRENCY UNIT = SUM
US$1 = 38.0
MARKET EXCHANGE RATE
Sum per US$1
December 1994         25.0
March 1995            25.1
June 1995             29.1
September 1995        33.5
December 1995         33.5
March 1996            36.1
June 1996             37.5
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES CONVERSIONS
Metric System                 US System
I meter (m)          =       3.2808 feet
I kilometer (km)     =       0.6214 mile
I square meter (m2)  =        1. 196 square yards
I metric ton (ton)    =       1. 102 short tons
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CIF      -      Cost Including Freight                  JICA      -    Japan International Cooperation Agency
CPPI    -       Center for Project Preparation          KEO       -    KEO International Consultants (Kuwait)
and Implementation                    KfW       -    Kreditanstelt fur Wiederaufbau
CTF      -      Consultant Trust Fund                   MIS       -    anagement Information System
CV       -      Curriculum Vitae                        MPU       -    Ministry of Public Utilities
EC      -       Executive Committee of Aral Sea         NCB       -    National Competitive Bidding
EMP    -        Environmental Management Project        NGO       -    Non Governmental Organization
EU      -       European Union                          OECF    -    Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
FSU     -       Former Soviet Union                     O&M       -    Operation and Management
GIS     -       Geographic Information System           PHRD    -    Policy and Human Resource Development
GOSTs  -        Russian Standards                       PICG      -   project Implementation Consultiiig Group
GOU      -      Government of Uzbekistan                PIU       -    Project Implementation Unit
IBRD    -       International Bank for Reconstruction   SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
and Development                       SOE      -    Statement of Expenses
ICB     -       International Competitive Bidding       TOR       -    Terms of Reference
IDA     -       International Development Association   UNDP    -    United Nations Development Program
IT      -       Information Technology
Borrower's Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
CONTENTS
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .                 ..........................
PART 1. INTRODUCTION .1
PART 11.   WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT.                                7
PART 111. THE PROJECT.                                                                 9
PART IV.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ................................ 15
PART V. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS .22
PART VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS .27
PART VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .29
ANNEXES
A.  Detailed Project Cost Estimates
B.  Project Implementation Schedule
C.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule
D.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
E.  Part A: Terms of Reference for Project Implementation Unit
Part B: Terms of Reference for GIS Management Information System
F.  Terms of Reference for the Engineering Design and Supervision Consultant
G.  Supervision Plan
H.  Organization Structure of the Procedure Enterprise "Vodokanal" of the
Republic of Karakalpakstan
MAPS         IBRD No. 27770
IBRD No. 27771






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:               Republic of Uzbekistan
Implementing Agency:   Goskomprognostat
Beneficiaries:          Goskomprognostat, Karakalpakstan Vodokanal
Poverty:                Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                 US$5 million equivalent
Terms:                  20 years, including 5 years of grace at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate.
Commitment Fee:         0.75 % of undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Onlending Terms:        Not applicable
Financing Plan:         See para.32.
Net Present Value:      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  15434-UZ
Maps:                  IBRD 27770 and IBRD 27771
Project ID Number:      UZ-PA-44942






STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
Background: General
1.    At a meeting of the Heads of Governments of the five Aral Sea states in February 1994, it was
decided to include the Uzbekistan Rural Water Supply, Sanitation, and Health Project in the Aral Sea
Program presented to an international donor's conference held in Paris in June 1994. At this conference,
it was decided that the World Bank would take the lead in preparing a project focusing on the two regions
of Uzbekistan most severely affected by the Aral Sea disaster: the Republic of Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm Oblast.
2.    The Republic of Uzbekistan is the most populated of the five Central Asian Republics with a
population of 22.2 million, of which some 60%  live in rural communities.  Agriculture is the
predominant economic activity in this semi-arid country. Only 10% of the land is cultivated, of which
95% is irrigated by two major river systems: the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya, both of which flow into
the Aral Sea. Since the 1960s, increasing use of these rivers for agriculture, particularly cotton growing,
has resulted in greatly reduced volumes of run off entering the Aral Sea and excessive contamination from
leached salts and agricultural chemicals. In 1960 it was the fourth largest inland lake in the world. Since
then it has shrunk to less than half its original size because of the nearly total cut off of river inflow from
the AmuDarya and Syr Darya rivers as a result of heavy withdrawals for irrigation. The desiccation of
the Sea has resulted in the loss of its fishing, tourist and shipping industry, the destruction of the
ecosystem of the Sea and deltas, the blowing of salts from the exposed seabed and severely depressed the
economy of the region. The most adversely affected regions in Uzbekistan are the Republic of
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
Background: Aral Sea Disaster Region
3.    Population.  Uzbekistan comprises 12 provinces (oblasts) as well as the Republic of
Karakalpakstan, and includes 123 cities and 157 rural regions. Karakalpakstan encompasses 37% of the
land area of the Republic and has a population of 1.37 million, most of whom occupy the Amu Darya
delta. Approximately 50% live in very small rural communities associated with state and collective
farms. By contrast, Khorezm Oblast occupies only 1.4% of the land area of the Republic, but due to
intensive cultivation and irrigation, it supports an almost similar size population of 1.17 million, of which
more than 75 % live in very small rural communities. The ethnic structure of the populations in the two
regions also are quite different from each other with Karakalpakstan consisting of almost equal numbers
of Uzbeks, Karakalpaks, and Kazakhs, while 95% of the population in Khorezm are Uzbeks. The
average family size in Karakalpakstan is 7.6 compared to 7.1 in Khorezm (both are above the national
average of 6.9).
4.    Socio Economic Conditions.  Karakalpakstan is the poorest region of Uzbekistan with a
significant percentage of the population living below poverty level. The most striking result of the recent
needs assessment survey of 951 rural and urban households representing 100 communities in the region
indicates that 93% and 78% of the family budget is spent on food in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm,
respectively. Average monthly family income in November 1994 from all sources, including garden plots
and livestock was 567 sum (US$23) and 695 sum (US$28). Another key finding of the needs assessment
was that the majority of households (about 65%) mentioned lack of food, particularly flour, as their most



- 2 -
important problem, about 59% of the households mentioned that lack of money to buy food products was
their second most important problem and about 25 % said that their third most important problem was lack
of water. Notwithstanding the poor economic conditions, only 4% of the households surveyed expressed
a desire to leave the area.
5.     Water Supply System. Because of the low rainfall (about 110 mm/year), water supply in the
region depends almost entirely on the Amu Darya River and its system of irrigation canals; the one
exception being deep saline ground water from wells drilled down to 400 meters for domestic (after
desalination) and industrial/farm use. Communities in the region obtain water from a variety of sources,
including: piped water supplies to community stand pipes, yard and household connections; hand dug
wells; drilled wells with hand pumps; and open water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, and canals. More
than one source may be used by any given household. The piped water is supplied from a variety of
sources' including: Tuyamuyun reservoir, Amu Darya River, and canals; 30-40 meter wells near the river
and irrigation canals; and 300-400 meter wells with desalinization units.
6.     Official statistics indicate that about 80% of the urban population in both Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm is served by piped water supplies (mainly through stand pipes as well as yard and house
connections). In addition, 29% of the rural population in Karakalpakstan and 54% of the rural population
in Khorezm are served by piped water supplies. According to the needs assessment covering towns and
villages of less than 20,000 inhabitants, however, 85% and 91% of the urban households in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm, respectively, are served with piped water, and 23 % and 41 % of the rural
households in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm, respectively, are served.  On average, 17 %  of the
households surveyed have access to piped water from stand pipes in the street outside their yard, while
14% have piped connections in their yards and 6% have piped connections in their houses. Other sources
of household water include untreated supplies from hand pumps and shallow wells (64% of the
households) as well as canals, lakes, ponds, and rivers (26% of households surveyed). The survey also
revealed that a rural family of 7 persons uses on average 38 liters/day for drinking and cooking purposes,
and 57 liters/day for dish and clothes washing, clean up, etc., for a total household domestic consumption
of 95 liters/day, or 14 liters/person/day.
7.     These low domestic consumption rates must be contrasted with actual piped water supply figures
for various cities, towns, and villages in the region. For example, in Karakalpakistan and Khorezm,
piped water supply for households averages approximately 220 and 415 liters/person/day in urban areas.
The large discrepancy between these household supply and consumption figures are due to the high
system losses, particularly at stand pipes and yard connections which are allowed to run continuously,
and from non-domestic uses such as irrigation of household plots and livestock watering2. Currently,
some 180,000 and 200,000 m3/day are supplied to the urban areas of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm,
respectively, by piped water from the following sources: Tuyamuyun reservoir, surface water from the
Amu Darya River and irrigation canals, and 30-40 meter wells near irrigation canals. Piped water is
supplied to about 80 remote villages in Karakalpakistan from 300-400 meter wells treated by Russian built
1/ Gazprom, which operates a gas export pipeline through the region, supplies treated Amu Darya water to
towns and villages in Karakalpakstan on the left bank of the River.
2/ Approximately 24% of households surveyed are using piped water for livestock and irrigation, while 59%
use wells and hand pumps and 66% use canals, lakes, and ponds for these purposes.



- 3 -
Ekos3 electrodialysis desalinization units (310 units with a capacity of 25 cubic meters/day each). In 13
locations, however, these units are not in operation due to a lack of spare parts. And at five locations
the units are now used only for emergency purposes.
8.     Due to the limited water supply and/or water treatment capacity and the need for water
conservation, piped water is available on a 24 hour basis only in approximately 12% of the service area.
According to the results of the needs assessment, in other service areas, it is available only on an
intermittent basis, either for one or two times during the day, but usually for less than 2 hours per day
(for greater than 70% of the area served). Open water storage tanks are installed in 22% of the
households surveyed4.
9.     Water Quality. Drastic reductions in the use of mineral fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides have
occurred over the past several years as local prices have increased to world market levels. As a result,
residual levels in water supplies are usually well below the Uzbekistan water quality limits. Local surface
water sources, however, may still be contaminated by inappropriate methods of application or excessive
use of chemicals. The most immediate water quality problem in the region from a heath perspective is
pathogenic contamination from humans and livestock. Results of bacteriological analyses in the
Tuyamuyun reservoir as well as aquifers at depths of 30-40 meters and in deeper wells at 300-400 meters,
show  little contamination.   Nonetheless, the Sanitary Epidemiological Service (Sanepid) found
unacceptably high levels of bacteriological contamination in shallow wells, surface irrigation canals, and
other surface waters in the region that are used by rural communities for drinking. In areas with
intermittent piped water supplies, similar problems may exist because of the infiltration of contaminated
shallow ground water. A water quality survey of 500 handpumps (400 in Karakalpakstan and 100 in
Khorezm) indicates very high levels of salinity in the samples taken from shallow aquifers near the Aral
Sea (up to 5-7 times the National Standard of 1,000mg/1), with 50% of the samples having a salinity
higher than 2,000 mg/I, as well as bacteriological contamination of almost all samples. Contrary to
expectations, at least a half of the households do not boil their water before drinking.
10.    Due to continued leaching of salts into irrigation drainage waters throughout the Amu Darya river
system an important water quality issue in the project areas is salinity. Seasonally fluctuating salinity
levels in surface waters in the Amu Darya River and the Tuyamuyun reservoir are a cause of considerable
complaint by local consumers. Over 68% of households in the survey area complained of the salty taste
of their principal water supply5. A salinity taste tolerance survey of some 400 households in the project
area indicates that the local population will tolerate salinities up to 2,000 mg/l, above the WHO
recommended guideline limit of 1500 mg/l , but well above the National Standard of 1000 mg/l. This
3/ The Red Cross installed a modem German built 2,200 cubic meter/day reverse osmosis desalinization unit at
Takhtakupr, some 100 km northeast of Nukus in April 1993, which has only been in operation for about 10% of
the time since it was commissioned because of the high cost of operation. With the completion of the
Tuyamuyun-Nukus pipeline extension to Takhtakupr in the summer of 1994, it is no longer needed.
4/ The capacities of these tanks vary from four buckets for small sized tanks to 2 cubic meters for large tanks.
No bottled water is used in the area surveyed.
5/ Concentrations in Tuyamuyun reservoir vary from 0.6-1.6 grams/liter with the high values occurring in
February, March and April, while downstream in Khorezm and Karakalpakstan in the Amu Darya river and
irrigation canals slightly higher values are recorded. Salinity in the 3040 meter aquifers near the canals,
however, are much less variable in the range of 0.7-1.3 grams/liter. Salinity in the deep aquifer varies from 1-
3 grams/liter in eastern areas of the region and up to 30 grams/liter in the western areas of Karakalpakstan.



- 4 -
finding has very important cost saving implications for the project, but confirms that in certain regions
close to the Aral Sea, water supplied from shallow wells and handpumps is of an unacceptable quality
from a salinity perspective.
Government's Objectives and Strategy
11.   In the late 1980's, Government authorities in Uzbekistan launched a program to improve social
and productive infrastructure in rural communities. A major focus of this program is the provision of
safe piped drinking water. Because of the greater need for these public services and more adverse effects
of the Aral Sea disaster in the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast, the Government has
allocated approximately 30% of its piped water program budget to this region, amounting to
approximately $130 million over five years.  Good progress has been made in achieving the
Government's goals and Phase I of this three-phase program is almost complete, although in the past two
to three years the pace of construction has decreased considerably. Recent concern over widening
inequities between urban and rural areas has led the Government to seek ways of further accelerating the
development of rural areas through the provision of social and productive infrastructure. A resolution
of the Council of Ministers to this effect was passed on January 1994, and a special working group
chaired by the first Deputy Prime Minister was created to prepare a development program up to the year
2000.
12.    The report of this group was submitted to the Council of Ministers in November 1994. The
report concludes that while Uzbekistan as a whole ranks favorably among comparable middle/lower
middle income countries, there are large geographical disparities due to the previous urban bias, and in
the rush to meet overall targets, the tendency of planners to concentrate on areas where it is easier and
less costly to provide infrastructure. This situation applied particularly to water supply and sanitation
services in the western part of the country, which includes the Republic of Karakalpakstan as well as the
Khorezm, Bukhara, and Navoi Oblasts.  The UNDP Uzbekistan Human Development Report
independently identifies similar priorities for funding by international donor agencies.
Bank's Role and Strategy
13.   The World Bank's country assistance strategy6 is designed to:  (i) support macroeconomic
stabilization and structural and sectorial reforms; (ii) strengthen market incentives, particularly in
agriculture and energy; and (iii) protect vulnerable groups through establishment of an effective safety
net and more efficient service delivery. In addition, the Bank's strategy is to provide support to ensure
or expand access to basic social services which are largely poverty focussed. Bank support also would
be directed at strengthening the Government's institutional capacity and acting as a catalyst for aid
mobilization.
14.   The Bank's role in the social infrastructure sector is to support Government efforts to improve
the health status of rural populations in the western regions of the country, which are most severely
affected by the consequences of the Aral Sea disaster and which are the most poorly served with regard
to water supply, sanitation, and hygiene. In the proposed full scale Water Supply Sanitation and Health
Project, which will be the first operation in the sector, it proposed to: (i) improve the cost effectiveness
of investments through project design; (ii) involve the participation of local stakeholders in selecting the
most efficient delivery mechanisms and in assessing their willingness and ability to pay for improved
social infrastructure; and (iii) improve the management and operation and financial viability of the
6/ See Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Uzbekistan, March 3, 1995.



- 5 -
regional enterprises responsible for delivering these services. As a precursor to the full scale project the
proposed Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project is designed to test and refine project management and
implementation arrangements and community participation approaches to ensure the more efficient and
timely completion of the full scale project. In addition the preparation of tender designs and tender
documents prior to negotiations for the main project will further enhance its quality and readiness for
implementation.
Lessons from Past Bank Projects
15.    Although the Government is now fully committed to implementing a comprehensive reform
program, the start-up of Bank activities in Uzbekistan has been slower than in some of the other FSU
countries. This would be the first lending operation in the social infrastructure sector in Uzbekistan.
Two other Bank projects are under implementation, the Institution Building Project and the Cotton Sub-
Sector Improvement Project. Project implementation has been delayed in both cases because of delays
in setting up the Project Implementation Units (PIUs) and the Government's preoccupation with the
transition process.
16.    Lessons highlighted by the Department's 1994 Annual Report on Portfolio Performance in Russia
and Central Asia focus on: (i) the challenge of identifying a consistent counterpart team with sufficient
authority to move the project forward; (ii) the difficulty of coordinating among key government agencies
on critical issues; (iii) the importance of setting up PIUs early in the project cycle and the training of their
staff in Bank procurement and disbursement procedures and requirements; and (iv) the importance of
involving local institutes in project design and preparation. Review of lessons learned from water supply
and sanitation projects world wide show that despite efforts at capacity building for the public institutions
concerned, few countries achieved acceptable levels of performance for their public water and sewerage
utilities, and that the financial performance of these utilities was equally poor. Some of the reasons for
these deficiencies include:  (i) lack of clear sector policies; (ii) lack of management and financial
autonomy; (iii) inexperience in project implementation; and (iv) lack of participation of users and other
stakeholders in the decision making process.
17.    To the extent possible, these lessons are being incorporated into the preparation and design of
the full scale project through: (i) an extensive social needs assessment survey, which has already been
completed with the participation of local institutes, as well as a follow up survey of water usage and
losses in piped distribution systems to domestic, commercial, and industrial consumers; (ii)
implementation of community based pilot projects for water supply and distribution7 and for health,
hygiene and sanitation8, which will be carried out during project preparation; (iii) an Interagency Working
Group has been set-up to provide overall leadership of the project, while Goskomprognostat has been
selected as the lead Government agency; (iv) a PIU is being established immediately to supervise all
project preparation and implementation activities; (v) through the PIU, the Government will execute the
7/ In addition to the larger scale water supply and distribution pilot project proposed for financing under this
engineering loan, the KfW has agreed to finance thiree or four smaller scale water supply and distribution
projects in the more remote rural areas, which will include the use of modem small scale desalination units and
packaged water treatment plants as appropriate.
8/ A PHRD grant has been obtained to finance two community based sanitation, health and hygiene pilot
projects in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast, which are being carried out by a Swiss NGO consortium. The
results of these pilot projects will be used to define the scope of, and implementation arrangements for the
sanitation and health components of the full scale project



- 6 -
Kuwait Fund financed project preparation feasibility study and PHRD funded pilot demonstration activity;
and (vi) local institutes and NGOs will be contracted to assist in all these project preparation and design
activities.
18.   The proposed Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project will provide the Government and the Bank
with early hands-on experience in dealing with project design, management and implementation issues
and involvement of local communities under the same conditions as that of the full scale project. The
lessons gained for this experience will facilitate the implementation of the full scale project and will likely
result in improved and streamlined implementation arrangements and a more clearly defined role of the
communities in the process, allowing them to achieve the greatest possible benefits from the project.



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
11. WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION AND HEALTH PROJECT
Full Scale Project Objectives
19.    The objectives of the full scale Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Project, of which the
proposed pilot project represents an initial learning phase, are to: (i) improve the health of the rural
populations of the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast through the provision of safe drinking
water, and improved hygiene education and sanitation facilities; and (ii) to strengthen institutional capacity
for the management, operation and financial performance of the regional water supply and sanitation
utilities.
Full Scale Project Description
20.    Possible components to be funded under the full scale project include:
(i)    Safe Water Supply
(a)    Water Conservation. Measures will have to be taken to reduce excessive water
losses and water consumption in the urban and rural areas already served by the
piped water distribution system. Otherwise the current system's operating and
maintenance costs will prove financially unsustainable9. This component will
possibly include, among other things: rehabilitation and system wide metering
of major trunk lines, secondary distribution systems and major end users; repair
of stand pipes and yard connections, which are allowed to flow continuously
when there is pressure in the distribution systems; and incentives to both urban
and rural households to use hand pumps, wells, or other low-cost sources of
water for use in household gardens and livestock watering. This will increase
service times, increase system pressure, and make potable water available to
other users.
(b)    Provision of Safe Piped Water Supply to Unserviced Households. This will be
achieved through the extension of secondary and tertiary water distribution
systems connected to the main Tuyamuyan-Nukus, Tuyamuyun-Urgench trunk
supply lines, or production from local fresh water aquifers of good quality (either
with or without artificial recharge); rehabilitation of existing water treatment
plants and installation of improved chlorine dosing facilities for controlling
bacteriological contamination; completion of the Kaparass reservoir pumping
station and main trunk lines to supply higher quality water during the winter
months; and installation of new desalination units and improved maintenance and
9/ The complete picture regarding the financial management of the water and sewerage utilities in the region is
only beginning to emerge, but already it is clear that substantial Central Government subsidies are being
provided to cover 0 & M costs. Capital construction costs are fully subsidized by the Central Government.



- 8 -
operation of existing Ekos desalination units in remote areas, where these are the
only economically feasible option for a safe water supply. These investments
will benefit new consumers in rural areas, as well as consumers already
connected to the existing piped water distribution network.
(ii)    Improved Sanitation, Hygiene, and Health. This will be achieved through low-cost
measures to be identified under a PHRD-funded community based pilot demonstration
project preparation activity in two rural communities in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm,
which will focus on improving household sanitation (through the development and
installation of improved latrines) and hygiene; provision of improved commercial and
public toilets (especially schools and medical facilities); and on health/hygiene
education."0 To address the need to increase income levels in the project areas, the
project will emphasize the use of labor intensive technologies and development of local
small scale contracting services.
(iii)    Technical Assistance will be provided to improve the organization, management,
operation and maintenance, and financial viability of the regional agencies responsible for
water supply, sanitation and health. Results of the vendors survey will be applied in
developing the cost recovery and incentive schemes to improve their financial viability
and efficiency and promote piped water conservation by consumers.
21.    The preparation of this project has involved extensive stakeholder consultation, household surveys
and community focus group meetings to identify stakeholder needs, priorities and constraints, which are
greatly influencing project design and implementation arrangements"1. The feasibility study for the full
scale project is currently under preparation and is expected to be completed by July 1996. On this basis
it is proposed to appraise this project in September 1996, and to present the project to the Bank's Board
in February 1997. Several donor's including the Kuwait Fund'2, KfW, OECF and JICA'3 have expressed
their interest in possibly cofinancing this project.
10/ While improved water supply is a high priority, there is very little appreciation among the communities
surveyed of the need to improve hygiene and sanitation conditions and the close linkage between these factors
and the health of their families. As recommended at the stakeholders workshop, awareness raising programs
are needed to build public support for improved sanitation and hygiene.
11/ Due to the extensive involvement of communities and other stakeholders in the preparation activities being
carried out under this project it has been included in the list of Presidential Participation Flagship Projects.
12/ The Kuwait Fund is financing the feasibility study that is being prepared for the full scale Water Supply,
Sanitation and Health Project.
13/ JICA is financing a two year study of the water supply system in six cities of the Aral Sea Region in
Uzbekistan which commenced in September 1994. This results of this study are being incorporated into the full
scale project feasibility study being prepared for the Bank and donor financing.



- 9 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
III. THE PROJECT
A.    Background on the Proposed Pilot Project
22.   The Kizketken settlement is a peri-urban area, 14 km from Nukus City, just within the eastern
limits of the Nukus Metropolitan Area. At present, the total population of the settlement is about 34,000
people, including some 1,700 people relocated to the settlement from villages close to the Aral Sea over
the last two years. Of the 4,960 families living in the settlement, about 4,600 families are connected to
the piped water distribution network, which is approximately 3 years old. The houses of the remaining
340 families are located in streets without a piped water supply network. These families are mostly young
couples that have been resettled here in recent times.
23.   As shown in Table 1, the piped water supply service in the settlement is characterized by
intermittent supply and low pressure, specially in the higher elevation areas where the majority of the
population live. The water situation is even more severe for those 940 families, or 7% of the settlement
population, which are located at the far end of the piped water distribution network, or are currently not
connected. Currently, these people rely on water delivered by vendors who are supposed to obtain their
water from the main pipeline some 10-12 km from the settlement. However, in order to cut their costs
the vendors abstract untreated water from the nearby Kizketken irrigation canal and sell it to the
households as potable water. The households usually store this water in rusted metal tanks located outside
their houses. Often these tanks are shared by 4-5 families. On average, each family consumes 0.8 cubic
meter per week. Families pay for this water out of their household income at the rate of $2.8 per cubic
meter (about 10% of average household income). Due to the closing down of several local enterprises
that were manufacturing construction materials, many of the household heads are now unemployed.
However, their trade skills can be usefully employed in constructing the proposed water supply system
for the settlement, thereby providing them with at least temporary employment.
24.   Three possible water sources were considered to improve the water supply to the Kizketken
settlement. The first alternative considered withdrawing water from the Kizketken irrigation canal, 2 km
from the settlement, or from underground aquifers linked to this canal. The second option considered
abstracting water directly from the Amu Darya river, while the third option considered linking the
settlement with the Tuyamuyun-Nukus trunk supply line. Following a technical and financial evaluation
of these different options it was concluded that the main water supply pipeline was the preferred drinking
water source for the settlement.
25.   In initial meetings with the community on the design options for this pilot project, they expressed
a strong preference for a self-managed water supply scheme, because they believed the Vodokanal would
provide a poor level of service, if it was to install and manage the scheme. However, when the
community was provided with information on the advantages and disadvantages and the costs of the
various schemes they finally agreed with the experts' conclusion to link the community with the main
water supply pipeline.  This community consultation approach was a first time experience for the
Vodokanal, and while there was initially a hostile reaction from the community and much apprehension
from the Vodokanal perspective, the end result has been most beneficial for all stakeholders.



- 10 -
Table 1: Characteristics of Water Supply Services in Kizketken Village
...                                     ,,.                                     .    .... . .., ,,-,-R R  ''" %  ' -- --      , -  - .
Western  7,000        1,000     Piped water distribution network, enough pressure and
(20.8%)               continuous supply all year round. During the summer season,
even watered gardening is practiced.
Middle   21,000       3,000     With piped water distribution network, but lack of pressure and
(62.3%)               intermittent supply (less than 2 hours), especially during the
summer.
Eastern   4,000       600       With piped water distribution network but no pressure during
(11.9%)               the summer. Families rely on the Kizketken Irrigation Canal
located 2 km away from the settlement, or on water delivered
by vendors and stored in unsafe containers.
Recently  1,700       340       Without piped water supply network. Families rely on the
Settled    (5.0%)               Kizketken Irrigation Canal, or on potable water delivered by
vendors.
B.    Project Objectives
26.   The main objectives of this project are to: (i) improve the design and implementation
arrangements for the full scale project through a "learning-by-doing" piloting approach and by
incorporating community participation into the planning and implementation process for water supply
and distribution; (ii) speed up implementation of the full scale project through early completion of
detailed engineering design and preparation of bidding documents; and (iii) developing and testing
joint financing and cost recovery schemes to improve the financial viability of the Vodokanals and the
sustainability of their investments.
C.     Project Description
27.   The project consists of two components: (i) an investment component to finance a pilot project
for a community based water supply and distribution scheme in Kizketken peri-urban area of Nukus
in the Republic of Karakalpakstan; and (ii) a technical assistance component for management and
supervision of pilot project implementation, and for preparation of tender designs and bidding
documents for procurement packages for the full scale project, followed by preparation of detailed
engineering designs, project management plans and implementation schedules.
(i)    Water Supply Pilot Project Component
The water supply scheme as proposed under this pilot project will involve pumping water from the
Tuyamuyun-Nukus main pipeline through a secondary main to the highest point of Kizketken village,
where it will connect with an existing tertiary distribution system supplying approximately 25,000
people in the poorly served middle and eastern sections of the settlement. In addition it will connect



- 11 -
with a new network of tertiary distribution pipelines to be constructed under the pilot project to serve
the 2,100 people (340 existing families as well as 60 new families), which have been relocated from
villages near the Aral Sea. With the support and concurrence of the community it is proposed to test
a lower water consumption design standard for water distribution networks in this settlement to reduce
investment and operating costs. The current design norm of 350 I/person/day has been reduced to
150 I/person/day. Unserviced households in the settlement that are currently supplied by water
vendors consume approximately 15 I/person/day. Households will have the choice of standpipe or
yard connections, but will pay a higher charge for the latter.
28.    Under the pilot project it is proposed to construct the following:
(a)    The Kizketken pumping station of 310 ml/hour capacity including two treated
water storage reservoirs with storage capacity of 1000 m3 each, chlorination
dosing and a transformer substation with two transformers;
(b)   the secondary trunk main of approximately 6.6 km length and 300 mm
diameter from the pumping station to the point of highest elevation in the
settlement to connect with the existing tertiary distribution network; and
(c)    new extension of the tertiary distribution system network of
approximately 5 km length and of 100 to 150 mm diameter along 6
unpaved streets to serve an additional 400 families.
(ii)    Technical Assistance Component
29.   The technical assistance component will finance the following sub-components:
(a)    Engineering design and supervision: (i) Pilot project review, revise and
improve as needed and approve detailed engineering designs for the pilot
project; prepare tender documents for procurement of goods and works;
arrange local and international tenders for procurement of goods and works
according to World Bank and GOU requirements, and assist in selection of
successful bidders and in agreeing contracts; provide overall project
management for pilot project implementation; coordinate financing
arrangements and approve payments to suppliers and contractors; supervise
construction to ensure overall quality control; monitor and report on
implementation progress; assist the community to set up a Water User
Association to collect community cash and arrange in-kind contributions to the
investment and in future to collect water charges according agreements
reached with the Vdokanal; (ii) full scale project, the first phase of this work
to be financed under the proposed engineering loan will involve preparation
of full scale project engineering design and bid documents for equipment and
works including: based on feasibility study results firm up all design criteria
for major project facilities; review all detailed topographic surveys and soil
investigations along alignments of proposed transmission mains and sites for
civil works and identify need for further surveys; prepare hydraulic designs of
the proposed project facilities; prepare detailed engineering designs and
construction drawings of the proposed facilities; prepare bill of quantities and
divide the procurement of civil and erection works and equipment into an



- 12 -
appropriate number of contract packages according to the requirements and
procedures of the donors that will be financing these packages; prepare cost
estimates for each package; assist the PIU to review tender documents for
each contract package; prepare a detailed construction management plan for
the project; review the GIS database and project management information
system that has been developed for the proposed full scale project to assess its
completeness and recommend improvements; prepare a detailed design report
presenting the results on the above tasks. A Terms of Reference for this
assignment is given in Annex F.
The second phase of this work, which not be financed under this engineering
loan, but under the full scale project will overlap with the detailed engineering
design and will be part of the same contract. It will involve services to assist
the PIU in project management and monitoring, as well as contract bidding
and in supervising construction of facilities proposed under the project.
Details of the services to be provided in this phase of the work are described
in the Terms of Reference in Annex F.
(b)    An independent Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been set up under
Goskomprognostat with initial financing from a Dutch Consultant Trust Fund
until the feasibility study work has been completed. The PIU will assist in the
implementation of the pilot project and continue its development and
application of a GIS management and monitoring system for the full scale
project. Following completion of the feasibility study it will also assist the
consultants in preparing the detailed engineering design and in preparation of
procurement packages for the full scale project. The PIU will also be
responsible for approving disbursements under the engineering project and for
financial management. A Terms of Reference for the operation of the PIU is
given in Annex E.
D.    Cost Estimates
30.   Total project costs, including contingencies and applicable taxes, are estimated at US$5.41
million. This estimate covers expected expenditures in foreign exchange in the order of US$3.33
million (61.7% of total costs) and expected expenditure in local currency, other than taxes, equivalent
to US$1.77 million (32.8% of total costs). Taxes (VAT) are estimated at the equivalent of US$0.30
million (5.5% of total costs). A Cabinet of Ministers Resolution No 287 of July 25, 1995 entitled
"On Measures for Further Liberalization and Perfection of Foreign Economic Relations" provides for
exemption of import duties on "goods supplied under intergovernmental or credit arrangements
concluded on behalf of the Government of Uzbekistan or against its guarantee". Table 2 summarizes
project cost estimates by component and category of expenditures. Details on project costs are given
in Annex A. The technical assistance component amounts to $3.35 million, equivalent to 61.9% of
the project costs.
31.   Cost estimates are derived from mission analysis based on discussions with Government
officials and intended project beneficiaries, as well as on detailed engineering designs for the
proposed pilot project prepared by local design institutes and revised by the Bank mission to reflect
international prices for imported goods. Base costs are expressed in January 1996 prices. Physical



- 13 -
contingencies are estimated at 12% of base costs for works and equipment, and 10% for the technical
assistance components, which are in line with established Bank practice and experience under similar
projects.
Table 2: Summary of Project Costs
(US$ thousand)
_   . . .   . . . ..                                              X  .:
Project ~ ~     ~       ~      ~      q~ Component  _onr                              l
(i) Water Supply Pilot Project          923        1,136      2,059        44.8          38.1     l
(ii) Technical Assistancel
(a) Pilot Project Management;       217         72         289         75.0          5.4      l
(b) Detailed Engineeringl
Design for full scale         2,114        705       2,819        75.0          52.1     l
project; andl
(c) Project Implementationl
Unit                            79         159        238         33.2           4.4     l
..,, , ......., . , , , , . , -.,........ ......  ...... .. ..            ..   ........,I,,,.  .....E  
[ T O T A L   C O S T S  .............~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~... ....._......_    5 . ......  .......0 0..
Category of Expenditures             _____   1____   l___   _______
Equipment                               923         157        1,080       85.5          20.0
Works                                     -980                 980           -18.1               |
Technical Assistance                   2,411        937       3,348        72.0          61.9    |
am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. r..... nm.:......: -.:.   ..   
EOT.AL COSTS:.[:--3__ -  I_v_I -  MtsWO01"
E.     Project Financing
32.    The proposed Bank loan of $5.00 million will finance 100% of expected expenditures in foreign
exchange and about 80% of expected expenditures in local currency. Bank financing of incremental
expenditures in local currency is needed because the project requires substantial and rapid build up of
expenditures, which the Government is not yet able to meet. No Bank funds will be used to finance
recurrent expenditures for Government agencies involved in the project. These will be fully funded by
the Government and are not included in the cost estimates. The Bank loan to the Republic of Uzbekistan
will have a maturity of 20 years, including a 5 year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. The Government through Goskomprognostat, will finance about 17.0% (US$352,000), and the
beneficiary community about 2.6% (US$54,000) of the local costs of the project, including applicable
taxes. Table 3 summarizes the financing plan for the project.



- 14 -
Table 3: Project Financing Plan
(US$ Thousand)
Sources of Funds     Foreign      Local Currency  .TOTAL        .retifT
Exchange_
IBRD                   3,334            1,66          5,000           92-5
Government                              352            352      -      6.5-- -  0-l 
Private Sector                           54            5410
|Percent of Total  |    61.7      |      38.3          100.0o 
33.   The community is willing and fully committed to participate in the financing of the project
investment. Community in-kind labor contribution would consist of voluntary labor for earth-moving
works and laying of distribution networks' pipes, which has been estimated at US$ 14,000-16,000. The
community would also make a cash contribution equivalent at the rate of Sum 360 per family. Thus,
community in-cash contribution would amount Sum 1.44 million, equivalent to US$ 40,000.



-15-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation Arrangements
34.   A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has already been set up for the Water Supply, Sanitation
and Health Project with funding from a Dutch Consultants Trust Fund (CTF), which is managed by the
Bank. There are currently 5 full time local staff in the Tashkent office (located in Goskomprognostat's
office building) and two regional PIU directors in Nukus and Urgench (see Annex E for the Terms of
Reference (TOR) for these units). The Tashkent office has been fully equipped with the most modern
office and GIS equipment and provides office space and facilities for the foreign feasibility study
consultants. The Nukus office has been equipped by the Executive Committee of the Aral Sea and is
sharing its office facilities with the PIU. A regional PIU office has also been established in Urgench
and supplied with office equipment from the Dutch CTF. The national and regional PIUs will also
provide services for the implementation of the pilot project and the detailed engineering design study for
the full scale project. The PIU has been in operation since the beginning of the feasibility study in mid
November 1995. During July 1996 it is proposed to send key staff from the PIU to be trained in Bank
procurement, disbursement and financial management and reporting procedures at the Russia:
Environmental Management Project (EMP) PIU in Moscow.
35.   The feasibility study for the full scale project is being funded by a grant of KD 250,000
(approximately US$ 830,000) from the Kuwait Fund. An international consortium consisting of Binnie
and Partners, Black and Veatch and KEO won the contract in competition with six other short listed
international firms. The contract includes 35 months of foreign expert services, 150 months of local
expert services, and 150 months of support services, with the foreign firm managing the overall study.
With the assistance of Goskomprognostat, the foreign consultant firm has made effective management
coordination and task contracting arrangements with the local institutes, which is working smoothly and
efficiently. In order to ensure the rapid start up and completion of the pilot project and preparation of
tender documents for the full scale project in a timely manner, it is proposed to use the same foreign
consultant to be hired under a sole source contract. The PIU will assist with logistical and office support,
and its staff will receive on-the-job training in Bank procurement, disbursement and contracting
procedures. Agreement was reached with the borrower at negotiations on the Terms of Reference for the
engineering design and supervision consultant services. The borrower has negotiated a contract for these
services as a condition of Board presentation.
37.   A detailed implementation schedule for the proposed engineering loan is given in Annex B. As
shown in this schedule, the implementation of the pilot project is expected to take approximately 12
months, while tender designs and procurement packages for the first year's implementation of the full
scale project will be prepared by the time of project negotiations. However, the work under this contract
will proceed over a three year period with funding continuing under the main project once the engineering
loan is refinanced.



-16-
B.    Procurement
38.   Goods. Goods and works will be procured in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the World Bank in January 1995 and
revised in January 1996. Goods contracts for the supply of pumps, valves, pipe and pipe fittings,
electrical equipment, etc to a total value of US$1,080.000 (see Table 4) will be financed under this loan.
Because of the limited availability of this equipment in Uzbekistan, goods and materials will be procured
using International Shopping procedures based on price quotations from at least three different suppliers
in two different countries. In conformity with current Bank practice the upper limit for International
Shopping contracts has been set at US$300,000.
39.   Works. Small works to be carried out under the pilot project, in packages not to exceed US$1
million, which would not be of interest to foreign contractors (in an aggregate amount not to exceed
US$980,000 would be procured under National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures. Sample bidding
documents and contracts, in accordance with IBRD policies, and based on the Bank's standard bidding
documents for small works will be used.
40.   Consultant Services. There will be one major consultant contract for consultant services (US$
3.108 million) to carry out the detailed engineering design, preparation of bidding documents and
supervision of the full scale project as well as review of detailed design, preparation of bid documents
and supervision of the pilot project. This contract will be procured on a sole source basis with the
international consultant consortium that won the feasibility study contract. The feasibility study contract
is valued at KD 250,000 (approximately US$ 830,000) and is being financed by the Kuwait Fund. The
sole sourcing of this contract can be justified for the following reasons: (i) the feasibility study consultant
was selected through an international competitive bidding process from a short list of 8 firms; (ii) the
client is fully satisfied with their performance and they are working very effectively with local institutes
and the PIU staff; (iii) the same internationally competitive fee scale will apply as previously negotiated;
(iv) the pilot project implementation and preparation of tender documents for the full scale project need
to start immediately the engineering loan becomes effective - a protracted bidding process to hire a
consultant would defeat the purpose of the engineering loan; (v) this consultant is in the best position to
apply the lessons gained from implementation of the pilot project and to prepare the tender documents;
and (vi) is familiar with World Bank and donor procurement practices. Hiring of local experts by the
PIU will be on the basis of an evaluation of CVs of at least three candidates.
41.   Prior Bank Review. The Bank will prior review all contracts for goods and works to be
procured under the proposed loan following the requirements of Appendix I of "Guildelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits". The Bank will prior review the negotiated contract
for the sole source engineering design and supervision consultant services. In addition the Bank will
review contracts for individuals hired by the PIU, which cost more than $50,000.



-17-
Table 4: Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Thousands)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...,. ..  ., ..,........           '      '.'; '''""'-''''"w . "-' .....'"':
....   .    ......    ..d                   .
..     .....  ...                            ..     .  ....T                      A
.......................... ...... ....... ......... ...... ...   ..  ......
Goods                                                         1,080(a)                     1,080
(923)                       (923)
Works                                                          980()                       980
(730)                       (730)
Consulting Services(c):
- Pilot Project Management                                     289                          263
(289)                       (263)
- Detailed Engineering Design                                 2,819                        2,345
(2,819)                     (2,345)
- Project Implementation                                       239                          239
(239)                       (239)
IOTAL~~~~~~....  .. .  ..                                               5.406:~i
.        .. . .   ..   .   ..   -.-.  .   .   .. ..   ..   ..  ]
.:,,. .- .   .-''-'-"'-''""'''"-'"'':"
(a) Includes: US$1,080,000 for lnternational Shopping                                                            l
(b) Includes US$980,000 for National Competitive Bidding
(c) According to IBRD Guidelines for Consultant Selection
Figures in parenthesis are respective amounts financed by the IBRD
C.      Disbursement
42.     The project is expected to be disbursed within a period of 4 years, the completion date being June
30, 2000.14 The disbursement schedule (Table 5 and Annex C) for the project is based on expected rapid
disbursement for the first two years during which time the implementation of the pilot project will be
completed. As shown in Table 6, loan funds will be disbursed against: (a) for goods: 100% of
expenditures"5, or 100% of local expenditures ex-factory cost; for works: the Bank will disburse against
80% of total expenditures; and for consultant services: the Bank will disburse against 100% of total
expenditures.
14/ However, it is planned to refinance the pilot project engineering loan under the full scale project.
15/ Resolution No. 287 of The Cabinet of Ministers of Uzbekistan, dated July 25, 1995, exempts equipment
procured under international financing from duties and taxes.



-18-
Table 5: Disbursement Schedule
(US$ Million)
Annual         1.1        2.1        1.4          0.4
Cumulative       1.1        3.2        4.6          5.0
Table 6: Disbursement Categories
(US$ Thousands)
Percent of Expenditure
Category                   Amount of Loan               Eligible for Financing
100% of expenditures
Goods                           923                 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
80% of local expenditures
l___________________________          procured   locally
Works                           730                    80% of expenditures
Consultant Services                  3,347                   100% of expenditures
TOTAL              1            5,000
43.    Disbursements will be fully documented except that Statement of Expenditures (SOEs) will be
used for: (i) contracts for goods, works and consultant services costing less than US$250,000 equivalent;
and (ii) contracts for individual consultants costing less than US$50,000 equivalent.  All other
disbursements will be fully documented. Full documentation in support of SOEs will be retained by the
PIU for at least two years after disbursement. This information will be available for review by World
Bank missions during supervision and by auditors. The minimum application size for payments directly
from the loan account or for issuance of Special Commitments is 20% of the special account
authorizations. Minimum application size until aggregate disbursements reach US$1.5 million will be
US$ 20,000 and thereafter, it will be US$60,000. In order to facilitate disbursements, a Special Account
(SA) will be established by the PIU in a commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank.
44.    The selected bank should have: (i) a significant foreign correspondence network covering all
currencies; (ii) reasonable capacity and experience for issuing letters of credit, for making direct foreign
payments and other international transactions; (iii) the capacity to perform a wide range of banking
services, at local branches, including cash payments, transfers to other domestic banks, issuance of debit
notes, application of conversion rates from foreign currencies; (iv) the capacity to maintain adequate
accounts for the SA as required by the World Bank and provide monthly bank statements to the PIU;
willingness to issue a Comfort Letter to assure that amounts deposited in the SA will not be set off or
otherwise seized or attached to satisfy amounts due to the commercial bank by the Borrower: and (vi)
the willingness to charge competitive rates for their services and provide reasonable interest income on
balances held.  During the early stage of the project, the initial allocation of the SA would be limited
to US$ 100,000. However, when the aggregate disbursements under the loan have reached the level of
US$ 1.5 million, the initial allocation may be increased up to the authorized allocation of US$ 300,000
by submitting the relevant Application for Withdrawal. Replenishment applications should be submitted



-19-
at least every three months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate
supporting documents.
D. Accounting
45.   The project will have sound accounting and internal controls capable of reliably recording and
reporting all financial transactions. Accounting and internal control systems acceptable to the Bank will
be put in place to allow the PIU to determine that procurement procedures are being followed and that
only eligible expenditures are included in disbursements and replenishment through the SA. This system
will be operational by the time expenditures begin. The operating procedures and manual developed
under the Russia Environmental Management Project (EMP) will be adapted for this purpose and hands-
on training of the PIU staff will be conducted in Moscow at the EMPs Center for Project Preparation and
Implementation (CPPI). This Center has trained the staff of other PlUs in Russia and is developing a
computer program suitable for Bank project accounting and for reporting of financial transactions to the
federal tax authorities. For the use of Statements of Expenditure, the PIU will process and maintain SOE
documentation. For the Special Account mechanism, the PIU and the depositary commercial bank will
introduce arrangements for proper accounting of receipts, payments, and submission of disbursement
documentation to the World Bank for replenishment of the account. During negotiations, agreement was
reached with the Borrower that counterpart funds for the pilot project will be deposited to the Project
Account quarterly in advance and that, as a condition of loan effectiveness a Project Account will be
opened in a commercial bank with an initial deposit of US$50,000 in the Project Account.
E Reporting
46.   The PIU is establishing a GIS based Management Information System (MIS) to track activities
under this project and the full scale project (see Annex E for the Terms of Reference). This is a powerful
tool for monitoring project implementation and project performance and will be developed by the time
this pilot project is ready for implementation. Moreover, the pilot project will test the performance of
the system and allow its refinement and improvement prior to the implementation of the full scale project.
The PIU will provide quarterly reports to the World Bank covering the financial and physical
performance of the project. The financial status will be reported through the quarterly and annual
accounts which will reflect the cash receipts from all sources and expenditures related to each component
and category, as well as the overall financial performance of the project. The detailed annual accounts
for the project will not only include expenditures directly financed by the World Bank loan, but also the
expenditures financed by the Government and the communities. These reports will reflect actual project
expenditures versus budgeted expenditures for the most recent fiscal quarter, fiscal year-to-date, and
project inception-to-date. The Project's annual audited financial statements will be prepared following
the generally accepted accounting principles as prescribed by the laws of Uzbekistan. During negotiations
agreement was reached with the borrower that not later then December 31 of each year the Project is
executed, the PIU will prepare an annual progress report, together with action plan and budget for the
following year, with recommendations for a proposed timetable for implementation, and present it to the
World Bank for its review and comments.
47.   As a Special Account and SOEs will be used in this project, the PIU will be requested to submit,
together with accounts for the project, on a quarterly basis: (i) a schedule of SOE expenditures; and (ii)
a summary of the Special Account activity and reconciliation with the SA balance in the commercial bank
account and a summary of the activity in the project account. All unaudited quarterly reports will be
submitted to reach the World Bank no later than 30 days after the end of the quarter in question.



-20-
48.   Quarterly project reports on the physical performance of the project showing actual and planned
performance for the quarter and progress to-date will also be prepared and submitted to the Bank. These
reports, also to be submitted to reach the Bank no later than 30 days after the end of each quarter, will
include comments highlighting project progress and significant bottlenecks, showing an action plan for
remedial actions where necessary.
F. Auditing
49.   Annual reports for the project accounts, including SOEs and Special Account for each fiscal year,
will be audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards by an independent auditor
acceptable to the Bank. The auditors will be appointed annually by the PIU at the beginning of each
fiscal year, so that the auditors may commence reviews sufficiently early in the fiscal year to complete
the audit in a timely manner. The auditors will prepare and submit an annual Engagement Letter, which
will be discussed and accepted by the World Bank prior to commencement of the audit. The financial
statements and the auditor's opinion and auditor's management reports, including the PIUs response to
the auditor's comments should be submitted to the World Bank no later than six months after completion
of the fiscal year in question.
G. Supervision
50.   The Bank will supervise the project four times in the first year, because of the need to learn as
much as possible from implementation of the pilot project and to finalize the detailed engineering design
of the full scale project in a timely manner. In subsequent years supervision missions will be at the rate
of three per year. In addition to the Bank missions, constant supervision will be provided by staff of the
Bank's resident mission in Tashkent, who have been actively involved in project preparation. A Bank
supervision schedule is provided in Annex G.



-21-
H. Performance Indicators
51.   In order to more closely monitor the performance of the proposed project a set of performance
indicators have been developed as shown in Table 7. The reporting arrangements that have been agreed
with the PIU include these indicators as key factors in evaluating implementation progress and in meeting
the Government's development objectives.
Table 7: Performance Monitoring Indicators
1.  Counterpart funding of $352,000 from the Government (including VAT) and $54,000 of
cash and in-kind contributions from the beneficiary community.
2.  Bank loan funds of $5.0 million.
3.  100 person months of foreign expert, and 650 person months of local expert inputs.
4.  A water supply pumping station and reservoirs and 6.6 km of secondary mains and 5 km of
tertiary distribution networks.
5.  Piped potable water to an additional 1,700 people and improved service to 25,000 people in
Kizketken settlement.
6.  Detailed engineering designs and drawings and fully prepared bidding documents for the
full scale Water Supply, Sanitation and Health Project.
7.  Monthly water quality manitoring will be initiated in the Kizketken community immediately
to monitor effectiveness of pilot project.
8.  Piped water availability will be monitored throughout the Kizketken community, starting
immediately, to evaluate effectiveness of the project on improving service levels.
9.  Quarterly reporting of piped water tariff levels and amount of water changes collected
from the Kizketken community will be initiated immediately.
10. Advancing implementation of the full scale project by 6 months, thereby benefitting some
2.5 million people in the Aral Sea disaster area of Uzbekistan.






-22-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
V. INSTITUTIONAL AND FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A.    Institutional Overview
52.   Before independence public water supply in the cities and urban areas of Uzbekistan was under
the purview of the central organization "UzVodokanal", under the Ministry of Housing and Public
Services and partly under UztransGaz. Water supply in rural areas was mainly the responsibility of
"AgroVodokanal" under the Ministry of Agriculture.  Since independence, the major republican
legislation that have brought about substantial structural changes to organizations in charge of water
supply were the Presidential Decree "About improvement in Management of Public Utilities in the
Republic of Uzbekistan" and the Resolution (No 371 dated July 22, 1993) of the Cabinet of Ministers of
the Republic of Uzbekistan "Regarding the Issues of Organization and the activities of the Ministry of
Public Utilities of the Republic of Uzbekistan". By the Presidential Decree, the former Ministry of
Housing and Public Utilities was reorganized as the Ministry of Public Utilities (MPU) and the functions
and responsibilities of UzVodokanal were decentralized and delegated to the regional governments and
their local subordinate agencies. The parent ministry of the Vodokanals became MPU. A typical
organizational structure of the regional Vodokanals is show in Annex H. After the reorganization the
main objectives and tasks of MPU are the development and implementation of state policy for urban water
and sanitation; development of concepts, programs and strategy for expansion of water supply and
sanitation systems assistance in design construction and maintenance of networks and structures; assistance
to enterprises and agencies of MPU during transition to a market economy and gradual transformation
of these entities into joint stock and other forms of legal entities.
53.   The interregional Water Supply Pipeline Projects are managed by separate entities under MPU,
and in the project area serve both the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast. These enterprises
are called "Entity for the Repair and Maintenance of Tuyamuyun-Nukus Interregional Water Pipeline"
and "Entity for the Repair and Maintenance of Tuyamuyun-Urgench Interregional Water Pipeline",
respectively. These entities are responsible for operating the main water supply pipelines and water
treatment plants to the region from Tuyamuyun reservoir and sell the piped water to the Vodokanals and
Agrovodokanals, which distribute the water through secondary and tertiary networks to domestic,
industrial and commercial consumers in urban and rural areas, respectively. The Vodokanals also operate
and maintain independent water supply and treatment facilities and pumping stations. All capital
construction for the main pipelines and for the distribution and treatment facilities is provided from the
central government budget. The operation and maintenance costs of the interregional pipelines are also
highly subsidized by central government.  However, the O&M  costs of the Vodokanals and
Agrovodokanals is covered by cost recovery from their consumers. In the current situation the domestic
consumers are highly cross subsidized by the industrial and commercial consumers.  The highly
subsidized water supplied by the interregional pipeline entities (which is a higher cost source than from
local treatment plants) provides a perverse incentive for the Vodokanals to source their water supply from
the main pipelines, except in emergencies, rather than operating their own local facilities, even though
they could normally produce water of an acceptable quality. The Government recognizes this problem
and has adopted a policy of gradually reducing the subsidy and increasing domestic consumer tariffs.
However, as discussed below it faces certain constraints because of the poor economic conditions in this
region.



-23-
B. Financial Aspects
54.   A number of important issues relating to the full scale project design were raised by participants
at the Project Stakeholders' Workshop in Nukus from September 27-28, 1995. These issues are being
addressed by the Government and the project feasibility consultants during preparation of the project
feasibility study.
55.   Affordability. What are households in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast willing and able to
pay for clean safe water? The best evidence of an upper bound can be gained from those households that
are supplied by private water vendors. A survey of these rural or peri-urban households (which tend to
be the poorest) is currently being carried out by the team of sociologists. However, preliminary results
indicate that these households are having to pay 8-10% of their household income for delivered water,
which may not be safe and tend to consume around 15 liters/per person/day (I/p/d) for household
domestic purposes. In contrast, if they are paying at all for their piped water (50% of households
surveyed say that they are not paying for their piped water), the slightly better off consumers in urban
areas are only paying about 0.5-1.0% (at 0.1-0.2 Sum/cubic meter) of their household income for this
service. Evidence from other countries shows that consumers are willing and able to pay 3-4% of their
household income for safe piped drinking water. Therefore, even though this region is one of the poorest
areas in Uzbekistan, there is scope for increasing the water tariff to improve cost recovery for a better
supply.
56.   Level and Quality of Service. In the social surveys and community focus group meetings that
were conducted by the social survey team it is very apparent that households are demanding an improved
level and quality of service. They indicate almost no demand for hand pumps or hand-dug wells and a
high demand for piped water; either to street standpipes, or to households. They are also demanding
improved water quality (mainly taste), as well as increased delivery times and tap pressures. All of these
factors lead to increased capital costs for construction, as well as increased operations and maintenance
(O&M) costs.
57.    Water Conservation. In the absence
of adequate controls on water consumption,
excessive water losses in distribution systems  12   10.42
and water usage by consumers in urban areas     10_
is contributing substantially to the high cost
of the schemes for piped water supply in the
region. Water supply rates of 500-700 I/p/d          ..                      TWA,C
are common for these urban areas, even
though the Vodokanals are trying to limit        2
this excessive water usage through restricting   0
pressures in supply mains and limiting             1 2 3  4 5  6  7  8
service times to as low as 2-4 hrs per day in               Zones
some areas (see Figure 1 from the social
survey).   It is common  to  see yard
connections and even standpipes without taps
running freely. Due to poor maintenance of service mains pipe leaks are common. Apartment basements
are generally flooded as a result of pipe leaks and poorly designed and constructed sewage collector
systems. Residents on the higher floors of apartment buildings often do not receive any piped water.
Because of the low tariffs and poor rate of collection there is no incentive for the household consumers
to conserve water. They use large quantities to water gardens and livestock and allow yard connections
to run freely.



-24-
58.   If these urban consumers could be convinced of the necessity to conserve piped water and the
Vodokanal had the resources to fix leaking pipes, then a considerable amount of water could be freed up
to supply other consumers at low capital costs. This option is being considered in developing the revised
masterplan for water supply in the region. Investments will be required in urban areas to rehabilitate
leaking distribution pipes and in apartments and households to reduce avoidable water losses. Household
consumers will have to be educated to use water properly and efficiently. Community water user
associations will be established to promote water conservation and water loss reduction and to facilitate
tariff collection.
59.   As a demonstration, in the newly serviced areas to be financed under the pilot project water
metering of small groups of households, which will be organized as Water User Associations, will be
used as the basis for charging consumers for the actual amount of water consumed. Water tariffs will
be set at a level which will discourage wastage, and community pressure will encourage households to
pay for the water that they consume. Similar arrangements should be implemented in areas that are
already serviced by the piped water network. Metering of apartment blocks will also be considered in
the full scale project taking into account the full cost of metering (ie the meter cost, installation cost,
maintenance cost, and cost of reading and billing).
60.   Setting Water Tariff Levels.  The major constraint to increasing water tariff levels in
Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast will be the affordability of clean water supply to consumers, which
from discussions with communities and community leaders seems to fall in the range 3-4% of household
income. The social surveys show that rural consumers are even willing to pay for vendor supplied water
at prices above what is considered affordable for them (ie at 8-9% of household income). Rural
households earning approximately $25 per month (825 Sum per month) could only be expected to afford
to pay approximately 25-34 Sum per month for an adequate clean water supply. However, in
consultations with communities in setting up the pilot water supply projects they have indicated that 100
i/p/d would meet their domestic needs (at the present they are consuming only 15 I/p/d for essential
household needs obtained from vendors, hand pumps, or hand-dug wells). Thus an average household
of 7 people would consume 21 cubic meters per month, and would be able to pay between 1.2 and 1.6
Sum per meter16. The current tariff for piped water is 0.1-0.2 Sum per cubic meter, based on an assumed
water usage of 250 l/p/d. This translates into a monthly water charge of 5.25-10.5 Sum per month for
each household in urban areas, compared with an affordability level of greater than 30 Sum per month.
It should be noted that at present households pay much more for vendor's water in those communities
that do not have access to piped water. There is, therefore, further scope for increasing water tariffs in
already serviced urban areas and considerable scope for increasing household tariff collection rates
provided adequate safe water is supplied
61.    Cost Recovery and System Sustainability. It is estimated that the actual O&M cost of supplying
piped water to Karakalparstan and Khorezm Oblast from Tuyamuyun reservoir, is approximately 6 Sum
per cubic meter (made up of a charge of 4 Sum per cubic meter to operate the main pipelines from
Tuyamuyun reservoir and 2 Sum per cubic meter for the local distribution networks). Table 8 shows that
at current levels of household income in the rural areas in this region (ie 825 Sum per month) households
can only afford to purchase approximately 27 I/p/d at a tariff of 6 Sum per cubic meter. For example,
at the currently assumed consumption rate in urban areas of 250 I/p/d, consumers would only be able to
cover approximately 10% of total O&M costs, if they were charged a tariff equivalent to 4% of their
16/ Note that if the tariff is based on an assumed household consumption rate of 250 I/p/d in rural areas the
affordable water tariff would be reduced to 0.4-0.64 Sum per cubic meter. At this lower tariff level there
would be less incentive to conserve water, if measured consumption rates are used as the basis for charging
households.



-25-
household income. At the current tariff of 0.1-0.2 Sum per cubic meter and an assumed consumption
rate of 250 I/p/d household consumers are only covering less than 1 % of total O&M costs.
62.    There is scope for increasing tariffs and reducing consumption in already serviced areas without
an adverse impact on the additional economic benefits derived from access to piped water. How much
consumption can be reduced without adverse impact on these additional benefits, and if these benefits
outweigh the cost of providing the piped water has yet to be assessed in the economic analysis to be
carried out under the feasibility study for the full scale project. For the newly serviced rural areas it
appears necessary to reduce service level norms for piped water supplies to approximately 100-150 I/p/d
and to consider other lower cost options as proposed in the pilot project, which may increase the level
of cost recovery for O&M costs. However, if design consumption rates are set too low some consumers
may not receive sufficient water, whereas others use somewhat more.
Table 8. Affordable Water Tariff Levels (at 4% of household income)
(Sum per cubic meter)
. E i .-: E .:   . ..........E.E ..: E      t  :  ---- ... . - .. . .. . .   ..     .. . . . .   .. ..  .   .. .   ...   ..E R-    EE-E iF ,g E , E   E i      E Ei  -E i--
15               T     10.5     T       21      T       42               84
50               T      3.2             6.4             12.8     1_     25.6
100                     1.6             3.2             6.4             12.8
250                     0.63            1.26            2.52             5.0
500                     0.31            0.62            1.24            2.48 
700                     0.22            0.44            0.88             1.76
*   Equivalent to $25/month at an exchange rate of $1 = 33 Sum
63.    Government Subsidies.  It is clear from  the above that the cost of properly operating and
maintaining the piped water supply system in the region will depend on government subsidies into the
foreseeable future. On the basis of a current piped water supply from Tuyamuyun reservoir'7 of 170,000
and 200,000 cubic meters per day to Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast respectively (of which
approximately 40% is supplied to household consumers and 60% to industrial and commercial
enterprises), the current subsidy amounts to 325 million Sum per year ($9.8 million per year) for the
domestic consumers. The other 60% supplied to the industrial and commercial enterprises almost covers
full O&M costs at current tariff levels. A continuing subsidy for household consumption would be
appropriate because of the very low incomes in the region, and because of the adverse effects on water
quantity and quality due to upstream economic activities. Even if it is proposed to undertake very large
investments to control upstream irrigation drainage discharges to the Amu Darya, and to release
increasing  quantities of water to the Aral Sea, it will take at best 3-S years (if natural depressions are used
for intermediate storage along the collector) and 10-15 years for these investments to have a beneficial
impact on water quality in the downstream reaches of the river.
17! This is not the total supply as other sources are used tO supplement the Tuyamuyun reservoir supply,
especially during the sumnmer months when the demandl reaches its peak.



-26-
64.    Community Consultation and Ownership. Experience from World Bank rural water supply and
sanitation projects in other countries indicate that when projects are based on inflexible service level
norms many consumers were alienated, because the services provided did not match what they wanted
and were able and willing to pay for. The best results were achieved where communities were fully
consulted regarding their preferred water supply options, based on good information on technical and
financial matters, and where these communities were fully involved in project design and implementation.
In many cases community water user associations were formed to make decisions and take actions on
service levels, affordable tariffs, collection of water charges, surveying of water leaks and overall
supervision, etc. They also exerted pressure on Water Utilities to maintain water distribution systems
and to improve the quality of service.
65.    The existing structure of community committees in the region readily allows the formation of
community water user associations, as demonstrated during the preparation of this pilot water supply
project. In the preparation process the communities have been thoroughly informed on various options
for water supply and distribution, as well as the cost and financing implications. Their views on
affordability and level of service have influenced the selection and design of appropriate systems. In
addition their commitment to project financing with initial cash contributions and in-kind labour
contributions to finance the capital costs and agreements to contribute to O&M costs to affordable levels
have considerably increased their ownership of these projects. As a result the water that they use will
have a real economic value to them and will contribute to the sustainability of the systems that are
installed.






-27-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Project Benefits
66.   The main benefit of and reason for implementing the pilot water supply project for Kizketken
settlement is to "learn-by-doing", while providing for immediate and visible results in area that has been
severely affected by the Aral Sea disaster. Since this is the first time that the Bank and other potential
co-financers have been involved in the water supply sector in Uzbekistan, there is much to learn
regarding local engineering design and cost estimating standards and practices, availability and quality
of civil engineering contracting organizations, supervision of construction, materials and equipment
procurement from local and foreign suppliers, importing of foreign goods and customs clearance
procedures, etc. The early identification of constraints and means of overcoming difficulties experienced
in the pilot project will greatly assist in the design of the implementation arrangements for the full scale
project. The pilot project will also test community involvement on a substantial scale and allow the
development of mechanisms to ensure that the most important stakeholders are involved in the decision
making throughout the process from detailed design through to construction and operation of the facilities.
This will improve cooperation between the service provider and the project beneficiaries and ownership
of the project by the beneficiary community. Higher levels of cost recovery have been agreed with the
communities and sustainability of the project in the longer term is, therefore, more likely. The more
direct and immediate benefit will be employment for locally unemployed construction workers in the
settlement and improved water supply and health conditions for some 34,000 people.
67.    Funding of the detailed engineering designs and preparation of bidding documents for the full
scale project under the engineering loan will considerably speed up the implementation of the main
project, as the bidding documents will be available for distribution before the main loan becomes
effective. This will bring forward project implementation by at least 6 months. It will also provide
considerable training to the staff of the PIU in procurement and disbursement procedures and preparation
and upgrading of the Project Management Information and Monitoring System, which will be used to
constantly track progress on the main project, as well as the pilot project.
B. Risks
68.    Because of the small scale of the pilot project the risks are minimal, although delays are to be
expected. However, in order to further reduce risks of delays, it is proposed to employ an experienced
foreign firm to work with the PIU staff and local design institutes to review detailed engineering designs
and to supervise procurement and contracting procedures, so that they conform with Bank requirements.
It is proposed to contract the same consultant firm that is working on the project feasibility study in order
to speed up the implementation of the pilot project and to facilitate incorporating lessons learned into the
design of the implementation arrangements for the full scale project. The impact of any delays in
completing the detailed engineering designs and procurement packages will be minimized by developing
a detailed implementation plan and concentrating the initial efforts on the facility designs that fall on the
critical path of the project.



-28-
C.    Environmental Assessment
69.   The proposed pilot project for water supply is not expected to have any adverse environmental
impacts. Only small scale construction activities are included in the project including small diameter
pipeline trench digging, water holding tanks,  and a pump house.  The project has been rated
Environmental Category "C".



-29-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
70.   During Negotations, agreements were reached with the Borrower that:
(a)    Not later then December 31 of each year of project implementation, the PIU will prepare
an annual progress report, together with action plan and budget for the following year,
with recommendations for a proposed timetable for implementation, and present it to the
World Bank for its review and comments (para 46);
(b)    The borrower will deposit its counterpart funds for the pilot project on a quarterly basis
and in advance in the project account (para 45); and
(c)    Agree Terms of Reference for the engineering design and supervision consultant services
(para 35), and
71.   The following condition of Board presentation has been met by the borrower:
Negotiate a contract with the engineering design and supervision consultant (para 35).
72.   As condition of Loan Effectiveness the Borrower would:
Open a Project Account with an initial deposit of US$50,000 equivalent in a commercial bank
(para 45).
73.   Recommendation:
Subject to the above condition, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$ 5 million
equivalent for a term of 20 years, including 5 years grace and at a standard variable interest rate.






-30-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX A
Table Al: PROJECT COST BY CATEGORY AND COMPONENT
1''.. ''. . .... "..-..   .-3 .-Q
... NO%t *4*.
Expenditure Accounts Project Cost Summary
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment and Materials                  140      824    964       86.0          17.8
B. Civil and Mechanical Works              875         -    875        -            16.2
C. Technical Assistance                    851    2,192   3,043       72.0         56.3
Total Baseline Costs                         1            6  4.
Physical Contingencies                     207       318    525       61.0           9.7
Price Contingencies                              _     __                    _
Total Project Costs                          31 3,334
Components Project Cost Summary
1. Kizketken Water Project                1,014      824   1,839      45.0          30.0
2. Technical Assistance                     851    2,192   3,043      72.0          56.3
Total Baseline Costs                                               j 0  62.0.90.
Physical Contingencies                      207       318    525      61.0           9.7
Price Contingencies
Total Project Costs                                   3



-31-
Table A2: DETAILED PROJECT COST
. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . ...   ::'-' .:..  ,:.    ,:   X .- . -.-  a  ....
A. Civil and Mechanical Works
- Booster Pump Station                  179      -     - 179    -153                  26         179
- Reservoir                             213      -     - 213       -182               31        213
- Chlorinating Tank                      62      -     -    62    -53                  9          62
- Air Treatment Filter                   38      -     -    38    -33                  6          38
- Trunk Main                            222      -     - 222    -190                  32        222
- Distribution Network                   94      - . .94    -80                       14         94
- Macro-metering                         13      -     -    13    -11                  2          13
- Power Substation                       13      -     -    13    -11                  2          13
- Electric and Comm. Networks            38      -     -    38    -33                  6         38
- Asphalt Surfacingof Streets            85      -     -    85    -73                 12         85
- Access Road                            22      -     -    22     -19                 3         22
Subtotal Civil and Mechanical Works     980                980             838       142        980
B. Equipment and Material
- Pump  Set                              54      -     -    54    46                   8         54
- Galvan. Iron Pipe 200-300mm Access.   655      -     -   655   560                  95        655
- PVC Pipe 150mm and Accessories        118      -     -   118   101                  17        118
- PVC Pipe 100mm and Accessories         56      -     -    56    48                   8         56
- Macro-metering                         26      -     -    26    22        I          4         26
- Electrical Euipment and Acces.         11     -      -    1      10                  2         11
- Onsite Communication System           112     -      -   112    96                   16       112
- Transformers                           27      -     -    27    23        7          4         27
- Chloratg Tank                          17                 2217    14                 2          17
-SAir Filters                             4                9804     4                 1           4
Subtotal Equipment and Material         1,080             1,080  923                 157        1,080
SubtotalA andB                         2,059              2,059  923       838       299       2,059
C. Project Implementation Unit (PAI5)
- Detailed Engineering Design Pilot Project  82             82              82                    82
- Capacity Building                       79 aA sI79               79       -          2          79
- Implementation Support                  77 11-            177    9        77         1          77
Subtotal PIU                             239    -      - 239       79      159        -239
D. Pilot Project Management              289               289    217       72                   289
E. Detailed Engineering Design          1,410   846   564 2,819  2,114     705                 2,819
Subtotal C, D, and E                   1,937   846   564 3,347  2,11       937                 3,347
GRaN  TOALand                          2,099   *-4   5   5,069  933        838'7i   299        2,059



-32-
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX B
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE AND PROCUREMENT PLAN
A. Project Implementation Schedule
1.    Implementation of the project is expected to proceed according to the schedule given in Table B 1.
Slippages may result from unforeseen constraints that may arise in implementing the pilot project, but
it is for the purpose of identifying these constraints that the pilot project is being implemented prior to
the implementation of the full scale project. The detailed engineering design component is expected to
proceed into the implementation phase of the full scale project and the second phase of this work will be
funded under this project.



ANNEX B
Table Bi: Project Implementation Schedule
1996                  1997                   1998                   1999
ACTIVITY                                  Ql Q2   Q3   Q4   Q3   QE Q     Q     Ql  Q2   Q3   Q4  Qi                   Q2 m     Q4
Loan Documentation and Board Approval
Kizketken Water Supply Component
Community Mobilization                                                      *   _     m_    _     _     _ n
Project agreement between community, Vodokanal and Local Government
Delivery of materials and equipment
Organizing labor force provided by the community
Construction activities
Water supply system testing and commissioning                                                                _
Provision of water conservation education
Technical Assistance Component
A Project Management Kizketken Water Supply
- Review detailed engineering design
- Preparation of a procurement packages and negotiation of contracts
- Supervision, monitoring and evaluation of Kizketken project implementation
B. Detailed Engineering Design for Full Scale Project                 |                             in_ _    _  _    _    _            _     _     _    _     .
C. Project Implementation Unit
- Detailed engineering design of Kizketken water supply project
- Contract with firm for project management of Kizketken component
- Formation of Water Users's Association                    l _lm
- Issue tender for works and equipment packages
- Contract with firms for Kizketken water supply project
- Issue tender for detailed engineering design of full scale project
- Contract with firm for detailed engineering design of full project
- Assist Kizketken water supply project implementation              l                      m _ ll   ll
- Assist Detailed Engineering Design for full scale project        |                           !                                           _ -e_



-34-
B. Project Procurement Plan
2.     Table B2 summarizes the procurement plan for this project.
Table B2: PROJECT PROCUREMENT PLAN
D....      E..,..ted .. ......, ...  .P.....  - .. . 
Pack:g A::wt   P           n : . .-. ..  :
Water Supply Pilot'
Works Package 1                  980              NCB         Oct-96    Dec-96       Dec-97 |
Goods Package 1                  261               IS         Oct-96    Dec-96       Dec-97 l
Goods Package 2                  281               IS         Oct-96    Dec-96       Jun-97    l
Goods Package 3                  249               IS         Oct-96    Dec-96       Jun-97    l
Goods Package 4                  288               IS         Oct-96    Dec-96       Jun-97    l
Technical Assistancel
Detailed Engineeringl
Design & Supervision              3,108         Sole Souree        -       Sep-96      Nov-99 l
Project Implementationl
Consultant Group                 239           Three CVs    May-96    Sep-96         Nov-99 l
--   . : :. .....-.::. : . . ..:    -: ......
,,,-,','~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...,                    ,....   ...,,.    .-S
Works-i:         Includes procurement of construction services and construction materials for the pump
station, chlorinating unit, power substation, electrical and communication networks,
access roads, as well as pipe connections to the trunk main, and secondary and
tertiary distribution networks, including bulk metering.
Goods-I:       Includes purchase of galvanized iron piping and metering.
Goods-2:       Includes purchase of galvanized iron piping and l00mm PVC piping and accessories.
Goods-3:      Includes purchase of galvanized iron piping accessories and pump set.
Goods-4:       Includes purchase of 150mm PVC piping and accessories, electrical and
comnmunication equipment and accessories, chlorinating unit and air filters.






- 35 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX C
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
(US$ million)
Bank Fiscal Year       Disbursements    Cumulative Disbursements
and half year            by half year        by end of half year
1997
1st half year         0                      0
2nd half year         1.1                    1.1
1998
1st half year        1.3                    2.4
2nd half year        0.8                     3.2
1999
1st half year        0.8                    4.0
2nd half year        0.6                     4.6
2000
1st half year        0.4                    5.0






- 36 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX D
SELECTED DocuMENTs AVAELABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Uzbekistan: Aide Memoires:
Water Supply Sanitation and Health Project
and Proposed Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project       April 1996
The World Bank
Water Supply Sanitation and Health Project: Aral
Sea Program 5.1                                           May 1995
- Rural Water Supply Sanitation and Health Project:          October -
Aral Sea Program 5.1                                       November 1995
- Water Supply Sanitation and Health Project                 October 1994
2. State Committee on Forecasting and Statistics of
the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of
Uzbekistan: 'Aral Sea Program 5, Project No. I                                    Binnie & Partners
Uzbekastan Water Supply Sanitation and Health                                  Consulting Engineers
Project' - Inception Report                                December 1995
- Interim Feasibility Study Report                 May 1996
3. The Study on Water Supply System in Six Cities of The Aral
Sea Region in Uzbekistan:                                                        Japan International
- Inception Report                                        October 1994          Cooperation Agency
- Progress Report (1)                                     October 1995                (JICA)
- Progress Report (2)                                     March 1995
4. Social Assessments for the Proposed Uzbekistan Water Supply,
Sanitation and Health Project:                                                    The World Bank
- Hand Pump Survey                                        June 1996                    and
- Community Water Taste Tolerance Survey                  June 1996             Sociological Center
- Water Vendors and Willingness to Pay Survey             June 1996                  "Expert"
- Social Assessment of Urban Areas                        June 1996
- Needs Assessment                                        June 1995






- 37 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX E
PART A: TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
1.    The Project Implementation Consultant Group (PICG) has been set-up under Goskomprognstat. It
will be responsible for project preparation and implementation and will have three offices in Tashkent, Nukus
and Urgench. The office in Nukus will be jointly operated and equipped by the EC of the Aral Sea. Office
equipment for the Tashkent and Urgench offices has been provided by a Dutch Consultant Trust Fund in the
World Bank. This fund will also be used to finance the operation of the Group for the 12 month preparation
phase of the project and subsequently it will be financed under the project.
2.    The PICG will provide the following services to Goskomprognostat in regard to project preparation
and implementation:
(a)    Liaison;
(b)    Procurement;
(c)    Disbursement;
(d)    Development and operation of GIS Project design and management system
(e)    Reporting, Accounting and Auditing:
(f)   Information exchange; and
(g)    Policies concerning the above.
3.    Liaison: The PICG will provide liaison with donors, ministries, other public entities NGOs and the
public on project activities. Such liaison will include facilitating the interaction of concerned entities and
the provision of information as described in paragraph 10.
4.    In this regard, the PICG will be the consolidated repository for project information and data which
it will make available to concerned entities in appropriate formats.  Also the PICG will assist
Goskompnogstat in organizing and coordinating seminars and workshops to disseminate project progress,
results and lessons learned, both for the Government of Uzbekistan, NGO and public audiences, and for
interested donors and suppliers of goods and services.
5.    Procurement: The PICG will have general responsibility for the administration of the procurement
of equipment, goods and services required for the project. In undertaking procurement of equipment and
goods, the PICG will follow the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits and, for selecting and employing professional services, will follow the Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency. The specific
responsibilities and arrangements for procurement will be as follows:
(i)    Equipment and Goods: The PICG will have the responsibility for procuring all the
equipment required for the project. In general, the equipment to be procured will follow
the lists given in the Procurement Annex to the IBRD Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).
However, as project preparation and implementation progresses there may be amendments



- 38 -
to these lists. The PICG should consolidate the lists, prepare specifications and confirm with
design consultants and project managers, that the specifications meet the needs of the project
component. Wherever possible, equipment needs should be combined in packages with ICB
being used for all packages with estimated values over a to be specified threshold value.
Some equipment will be required later in the project cycle and if the equipment
specifications are agreed, then the PICG should use its best judgement to determine whether:
(a) to include this as part of early packages with delayed delivery timed to best meet the
needs of the project; (b) procure with the bulk of the equipment and either store or deliver
early to the appropriate agency (bearing in mind possible security risks); or (c) whether to
procure the equipment separately when needed. Packages with an estimated value under the
ICB threshold may be procured through International Shopping. "National shopping" may
be used for supplies and minor items readily available locally and, where bulk procurement
would not be more economical;
(ii)    The selection and employment of professional services: The PICG will act as a service
agency and facilitator for the selection and employment of professional services. Such
services may be provided from foreign and Uzbekistan sources by: (a) consulting firms and
individuals and (b) Institutes. The PICG can hire consultants to assist its work and can assist
Goskomprognostat in preparing invitation packages, selecting consultants and negotiating
contracts with consultant firms which will be hired by Goskomprognostat.  Selection of
consulting firms will be through evaluation of proposals received from a shortlist of firms
(not less than three, no more than six). Selection of individuals will be through the
evaluation of at least three CVs. The PICG will provide support to Goskomprognostat by
assisting in the preparation of long lists of firms from which the Goskomprognostat will
choose the short list. Selection committees will usually be convened by Goskomprognostat.
While the PICG will be represented on selection committees, the majority of
Goskomprognostat members should be involved with project implementation. The PICG
will handle the mailing of the invitation package to the shortlisted firms and receiving and
recording the proposals. Given its rapid build up of experience, the PICG should jointly
with the Goskomprognostat, negotiate contracts with the consulting firms.  Individual
contracts will be negotiated on the basis of a standard scale of salaries and conditions. For
both firms and individuals, standard contracts will be used. For firms this will be the World
Bank Standard Contract; for individuals, the standard individual contract of the PICG;
(iii)   Training and Advice: Based on the Bank's guidelines, the PICG will prepare a procurement
manual which should amplify the procedures given in the Guidelines and explain in detail
the responsibilities and procedures to be followed by the Project Implementation Agencies.
The PICG will also provide training in professional services selection and contract
administration. The PICG will maintain a library of terms of reference, job descriptions, and
contract documentation and will build up a data base of information on consulting firms and
equipment suppliers. The PICG will also assist in the administrative matters related to
training workshops to be mounted by the Project Implementing Agencies and with training
and secondments overseas; and
(iv)   World Bank's Prior Review: The Bank's review for procurement of equipment and goods
for all contracts over the ICB threshold is detailed in Appendix 1 to the Procurement
Guidelines i.e. the Bank would need to review and give its no objections to the complete bid
package prior to bids being invited (including the proposed advertisement) and the proposed
contract award with a detailed report covering bid opening and evaluation. For professional



- 39 -
services where firms or institutes are being invited, the Bank would need to give its "no
objections" to the short list of firms to be invited to submit proposals and the invitation
package. Prior to negotiation, the Bank would wish to receive the recommendations of the
evaluation committee with the winning proposal, and the proposed negotiated contract prior
to signature.
6.    Disbursement: The PICG will be responsible for the disbursement of funds, the preparation of
withdrawal applications and the collection, maintenance of all relevant documents. The Bank's Disbursement
Handbook which details disbursement procedures for IBRD Loans, provides the information on procedures
and should be considered a part of these Terms of Reference. Withdrawal applications will be fully
documented, except for expenditures against contracts less than US$50,000 equivalent, which will be made
on certified Statements of Expenditures detailing the individual transactions. The documents to support these
expenditures will be retained by the PICG for at least one year after the receipt by the Bank of the audit
report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation will be made available
for review by the auditors (see section below on "Reporting, Accounting and Auditing") and the Bank upon
request.
7.    GIS Based Project Design and Management System: Because of the large area involved by the
project and need for effective up-to-date project monitoring and evaluation, a GIS based project design and
management system will be developed and operated by PICG. A special computer and ancillary equipment
system has been purchased and dedicated to this purpose. The entire network of water supply and
distribution network, which have already been installed will be overlayed or detailed maps of the region as
well as those that are planned for construction under project. Water supply sources, water quality data,
demographic and socio-economic data, etc. will also be incorporated into the database. Project cost and
scheduling data will also be incorporated as it becomes available, so that a complete project management
system is developed with regular summary progress reporting produced automatically and graphically.
During project implementation this will also be converted into a tool for operational management to improve
the operation and maintenance of the water supply network in the region.
8.    Financial Reporting, Accounting and Auditing: The PICG will establish a management information
system which, at a minimum, will cover:
(a)    All equipment and goods procurement activities;
(b)    All consultants and personnel employed under the Project;
(c)    All financial activities including payments and disbursements; and
(d)    An accounting system following generally accepted international standards in order to
provide information on the receipt and use of funds and in line with the terms of the Loan
Agreement. The system would ensure timely and accurate accounting of all transactions
under the Loan, and a clear presentation of financial information. It should enable
identification of the use of all funds by components and categories of equipment and goods
procured and consultants and personnel employed and paid under the project.  The
accounting system should reflect the movement and receipts and payments through the
Special Account with balances agreed with monthly financial statements form the holding
commercial bank and with periodic statements from the World Bank; and
(e)    An auditing system to meet the requirements of the Government of Uzbekistan and the
World Bank.



- 40 -
9.    Detailed requirements for the above, including the determination of responsibilities for the provision
of data and reports on subprojects, will be developed during the 9 month start-up phase of the PICG.
10.   Information Exchange: The PICG will ensure the organization and management of information
reporting and database maintenance to meet the needs of the project and donors and lenders participating in
the project. Information management will include that developed by the systems in paragraph 7 above and
will also include written reports, both as specified under the Loan Agreement, but also as required for the
dissemination of information to entities of the Government of Uzbekistan, donors and to the participants in
the project.
11.   Employment of Personnel: The PICG will develop personnel employment policies to ensure
appropriate consistency by all the project participants. Over and above the employment activities as indicated
in paragraph 4 above, the PICG will engage individual experts for the purpose of staffing the PICG.
12.   Development of PICG Policies and Procedures: The detailed functions of the PICG and its
structure, policies and operations will evolve over time -- particularly during the start-up phase. These
Terms of Reference provide a starting point for the PICG operations. However, it is expected that they will
be revised, amplified and amended from time to time to more adequately meet the needs of the project.



- 41 -
PART B: TERMS OF REFERENCE
FOR GIS MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM
Background
1.     Since the proposed project covers such a large area with many scattered cities, towns and villages
there is a need to develop an effective tool for data compilation, storage and display in a format that can be
readily adjusted and presented for effective decision making and reporting. In addition it is likely that there
will be at least 3 or 4 donors that will be financing varying components or bid packages under the project,
each having its own special data presentation and reporting requirements. A system that has now been
widely used to meet the needs of such projects is a Windows based computerized GIS , of which there are
several widely available commercial software packages. The one which is particularly suited to this
application is Atlas GIS. As with all of these systems Atlas GIS allows the user to input, overlay and
manipulate geographic data in the form of maps, pipeline networks, etc., as well as numerical data of all
types and applications. The systems allows great flexibility in regard to meeting special requirements of end
users and can be continually upgraded to meet changing requirements as a project passes through varying
phases of development and implementation.
Objectives
2.     The objectives of the GIS to be developed for this project are to provide a management decision
making and operational tool to: (i) facilitate project design; (ii) project management and reporting during
implementation; and (iii) improve operation and maintenance of the entire water supply network. These
three objectives have common basic requirements for system design, as well as their own specific
requirements. At this stage it is not possible to identify all of these requirements, so that this TOR is only
indicative of the developments that will be carried out to make the system fully operational.
Scope of Work
3.     This scope of work provides a preliminary list of requirements for the three systems identified above
in terms of both basic and specific specifications. This list should be reviewed and expanded by the PIU
Consultant Group in consultation with the project feasibility consultant, Goskomprognostat, and other
agencies involved in project design and implementation. Once a detailed list of requirements is agreed
detailed task descriptions can be prepared to meet the agreed system specifications.
(a) Basic Geographic Information Specifications
4.     A list of basic geographic information specifications common to the three systems are as follows:
*     digitized scaled maps of the project area covering Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast
including city, rayon and district boundaries; street layouts in cities, towns and villages;
overlays of reservoirs, lakes, rivers, irrigation and drainage canals, wetlands and the Aral
Sea; topographical overlays; overlays of exploitable underground water resources classified
according to depth of the resource below the surface; overlays of existing piped water
networks (identified according to diameter and material of construction, and if possible year
of installation) down to street level, including street standpipes and household connections;
layout of existing sewage collectors, pump stations and treatment plants; areas served by
water vendors; etc.



- 42 -
*      location of water treatment plants, and pump stations for existing piped water supply network;
location of hand pumps and shallow hand dug wells for water supply; location of existing
deep wells for water supply; location of existing EKOS desalination units;
*      establish a photographic data base for various aspects of the project and project area, for
example those associated with the piped water network, hand pump survey, other current
water supply sources, pilot projects, sanitation facilities for households and public facilities,
etc. as a baseline for future reference and report presentations; and
*      other to be specified.
(b) Basic Infornation Database Specifications
5.     The basic database of numeric information associated with the above geographic information will
include but not limited to the following:
*      demographic data by region (rayon and district), city, town, and village; information on
social infrastructure in each of these; historical hydrological data for rivers, irrigation canals,
lakes and reservoirs; hydro-geological data for underground resources; historical water quality
data for surface and underground resources; etc.
-      critical design and operational data for the existing water supply network including pipes,
pumping stations, water treatment plants, etc.; critical design and operational data for the
existing sewage collector and treatment system; etc.
*      as appropriate include survey data from: the social needs assessment; household piped water
usage survey; industrial and commercial water usage and conservation survey; handpump
usage and monitoring survey; taste tolerance survey; willingness to pay(vendor) survey; pilot
projects, and JICA studies;
*      design and operational information on existing EKOS desalination units;
*      data on industrial and commercial consumers;
*      data on bulk water metering in the network and service times at various points throughout
the system; and
*      other to be specified.



- 43 -
(c) Project Design Database
6.     The specific requirements for the Project Design geographic and numeric information database include,
but are not limited to the following:
*     options for expansions of the main water supply pipelines, pumping stations and water
treatment plant expansions from Tuyamuyun and Kaparass reservoirs, including layouts,
design specifications and costs; expansions of secondary and tertiary systems to supply
unserviced areas; etc.
*     options for piped water supply, treatment and distribution from various underground
resources, including layout, design specifications and costs;
*     options for upgrading existing water supply and distribution networks and EKOS desalination
systems to meet the desired operational and quality standards;
*     other water supply, water conservation and unaccounted for water loss reduction options
where appropriate;
*     options for sewage and sanitation improvements for households and public facilities which
may be funded under the proposed project; and
*     other to be specified.
(d) Project Implementation Management Database
7.    The specific requirements for the Project Implementation Management geographic and numeric
information database include, but are not limited to the following:
*     selected design options for piped water supply network expansion to be funded under the
proposed project with network layouts, design and operational specifications for all system
elements, budget cost estimates and implementation scheduling information;
*     selected design options for sewage and low cost sanitation facilities to funded under the
project with design and operational specifications for all items, budget cost estimates and
implementation scheduling information;
*     specification of the health and hygiene components to be financed under the project along
with budget cost estimates and implementation scheduling information;
*     specification of technical assistance components to be funded under the project along with
budget cost estimates and implementation scheduling information;
*     project procurement (works, goods and services) and financing (including bilateral donors,
the Government and the Bank) plan, schedule and budget;
*     actual project implementation schedule and project accounting to meet donor and Government
reporting requirements;



- 44 -
*      monitoring and evaluation of project implementation progress;
*      regular updating of demographic and water quality and water resource databases, water
metering, service times, industrial and commercial users, etc.;
*      additions to the database with new survey data; and
*      other to be specified.
(e) Network Operation and Maintenance Database
8.     The specific requirements for the Network Operation and Maintenance Database geographic and
numeric information database include, but not limited to the following:
*      annual water supply and sewage network replacement and maintenance plans, schedules and
budgets for each of the water supply and sanitation public utilities and main pipeline operating
enterprises;
*      updating of the GIS database system as these improvements are completed and preparation
of following year plans;
*      preparation of network expansion plans for future investments;
*      regular updating of GIS database information including household, industrial and commercial
consumers, water quality and water resource data, bulk water meters, service times, etc.; and
*      other to be specified
Detailed Task Descriptions
I.     Finalize fiunctional requirements.
9.     The information systems specialists assisting the Project Implementation Consulting Group will be
responsible for developing, operating and maintaining an appropriate information management and retrieval
system capable of serving the needs described in previous sections. Their first task will be to finalize the
detailed list of requirements of the various aspects of the system, as initially outlined above with the project
feasibility consultants, the public utilities, main pipeline operators, Goskomprognostat and other concerned
parties. Through a process which may involve client interviews or workshops the IT specialists should carry
out:
*      an identification of all organizational units which will contribute to and benefit from the
development of the information systems;
*      an assessment of the volume and flow of geo-referenced data to be utilized
*      an inventory and assessment of the quality of the and availability of map data sources;
*      an inventory and assessment of existing staff skills and additional training requirements under
the project; and
*      identification of major gaps in the availability of map or other critical data;



- 45 -
*1.     Conduct demonstration studies for design phase
10.    As an initial step the information technology specialists shall develop a system which can be used in
the project design phase. Prior to spending a great deal of effort on database development, the IT specialists
should undertake a number of operational case studies to illustrate how the system will be used to solve
identified problems during the planning and design phase of the project. Prior to full scale implementation
of systems these case studies should be evaluated and revised as appropriate. The objective of this step is to
insure that operational procedures are tested and evaluated before full scale implementation of the databases
begins. Based on the results of the evaluation phase a detailed implementation plan will be developed.
11.    Oversee full scale system development and implementation
11.    Following an initial evaluation of system  requirements and a brief demonstration phase the IT
specialists will prepare a detailed system design and implementation strategy for review and refinement in
discussion with representatives of the relevant data users and provider organizations. The system development
strategy should be phased and modular allowing the system to be expanded as required'. During the system
implementation stage all databases will be developed. During implementation the system will be adapted and
modified for operation by the water and sewage utilities and main pipeline operators to improve operation and
maintenance of the water supply and sewage networks. The information technology specialists will oversee
the full scale implementation of the system including database design, development, staff training, and
monitoring of system performance.
Reporting
12.    An important purpose of the GIS will be to produce timely summary reports, maps and presentations
for Government and public utility decision makers and for donors providing finance for the project. The
system needs to be designed and developed with this important objective in clear perspective.
i The initial recommended software configuration should be compatible with the Windows 95 operating system. As a
minimum software functionality should include: the latest version of a commercially available PC based GlS/Mapping software
(e.g., Atlas GIS), a project scheduling package (e.g. Microsoft Project), a simple accounting system (e.g. Quicken ) for project
accounting and finacial reporiing, and other ancillary database management software (e.g. Access) as required.






- 46 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX F
TERMS OF REFERENCE
ENGINEERING DESIGN AND SUPERVISION CONSULTANT
Background: General
1.    At a meeting of the Heads of Governments of the five Aral Sea states in February 1994, it was
decided to include the Uzbekistan Rural Water Supply, Sanitation, and Health Project in the Aral Sea Program
presented to an international donor's conference held in Paris in June 1994. At this conference, it was decided
that the World Bank would take the lead in preparing a project focusing on the two regions of Uzbekistan most
severely affected by the Aral Sea disaster: the Republic of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm Oblast.
2.     The Republic of Uzbekistan is the most populated of the four Central Asian Republics with a
population of 22.2 million, of which some 60% live in rural communities. Agriculture is the predominant
economic activity in this semi-arid country. Only 10% of the land is cultivated, of which 95% is irrigated
by two major river systems: the Amu Darya and the Syr Darya, both of which flow into the Aral Sea. Since
the 1960s, increasing use of these rivers for agriculture, particularly cotton growing, has resulted in greatly
reduced volumes of run off entering the Aral Sea and excessive contamination from leached salts and
agricultural chemicals.
Background: Aral Sea Disaster Region
3.     Population. Uzbekistan comprises 12 provinces (oblasts) as well as the Republic of Karakalpakstan,
and includes 123 cities and 157 rural regions. Karakalpakstan encompasses 37% of the land area of the
Republic and has a population of 1.37 million, most of whom occupy the Amu Darya delta. Approximately
50% live in very small rural communities associated with state and collective farms. By contrast, Khorezm
Oblast occupies only 1.4% of the land area of the Republic, but due to intensive cultivation and irrigation,
it supports an almost similar size population of 1.17 million, of which more than 75% live in very small rural
communities. The ethnic structure of the populations in the two regions also are quite different from each
other with Karakalpakstan consisting of almost equal numbers of Uzbeks, Karakalpaks, and Kazakhs, while
95% of the population in Khorezm are Uzbeks. The average family size in Karakalpakstan is 7.6 compared
to 7.1 in Khorezm (both are above the national average of 6.9%).
4.     Socio Economic Conditions. Karakalpakstan is the poorest region of Uzbekistan with a significant
percentage of the population living below poverty level. The most striking result of the recent needs
assessment survey of 951 rural and urban households representing 100 communities in the region indicates
that 93% and 78% of the family budget is spent on food in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm, respectively.
Average monthly family income in November 1994 from all sources, including garden plots and livestock was
567 sum (US$23) and 695 sum (US$28). Another key finding of the needs assessment was that the majority
of households (about 65%) mentioned lack of food, particularly flour, as their most important problem, about
59% of the households mentioned that lack of money to buy food products was their second most important



- 47 -
problem and about 25 % said that their third most important problem was lack of water. Notwithstanding the
poor economic conditions, only 4% of the households surveyed expressed a desire to leave the area.
5.     Water Supply System. Because of the low rainfall (about 110 mm/year), water supply in the region
depends almost entirely on the Amu Darya River and its system of irrigation canals; the one exception being
deep saline ground water from wells drilled down to 400 meters for domestic (after desalination) and
industrial/farm use. Communities in the region obtain water from a variety of sources, including: piped water
supplies to community stand pipes, yard and household connections; hand dug wells; drilled wells with hand
pumps; and open water bodies, such as lakes, rivers, and canals. More than one source may be used by any
given household. The piped water is supplied from a variety of sources' including: Tuyamuyun reservoir,
Amu Darya River, and canals; 30-40 meter wells near the river and irrigation canals; and 300-400 meter wells
with desalinization units.
6.     Official statistics indicate that about 80% of the urban population in both Karakalpakstan and Khorezm
is served by piped water supplies (mainly through stand pipes as well as yard and house corrections). In
addition, 29% of the rural population in Karakalpakstan and 54% of the rural population in Khorezm are
served by piped water supplies. According to the needs assessment covering towns and villages of less than
20,000 inhabitants, however, 85% and 91 % of the urban households in Karakalpakstan and Khorezm,
respectively, are served with piped water, and 23% and 41 % of the rural households in Karakalpakstan and
Khorezm, respectively, are served. On average, 17% of the households surveyed have access to piped water
from stand pipes in the street outside their yard, while 14% have piped connections in their yards and 6%
have piped connections in their houses. Other sources of household water include untreated supplies from
hand pumps and shallow wells (64% of the households) as well as canals, lakes, ponds, and rivers (26% of
households surveyed). The survey also revealed that a rural family of 7 persons uses on average 38 liters/day
for drinking and cooking purposes, and 57 liters/day for dish and clothes washing, personal washing, etc.,
for a total household domestic consumption of 95 liters/day, or 14 liters/person/day.
7.     These low domestic consumption rates must be contrasted with actual piped water supply figures for
various cities, towns, and villages in the region. For example, in Karakalpakistan and Khorezm, piped water
supply for households averages approximately 220 and 415 liters/person/day in urban areas. The large
discrepancy between these household supply and consumption figures are due to the high system losses,
particularly at stand pipes and yard connections which are allowed to run continuously, and from non-domestic
uses such as irrigation of household plots and livestock watering3. Currently, some 180,000 and 200,000
m3/day are supplied to the urban areas of Karakalpakstan and Khorezm, respectively, by piped water from
the following sources: Tuyamuyun reservoir, surface water from the Amu Darya River and irrigation canals,
and 30-40 meter wells near irrigation canals. Piped water is supplied to about 80 remote villages in
Karakalpakistan from 300-400 meter wells treated by Russian built Ekos4 electrodialysis desalinization units
(310 units with a capacity of 25 cubic meters/day each) at 80 village locations. In 13 locations, however,
2 Gazprom, which operates a gas export pipeline through the region, supplies treated Aniu Darya water to
towns and villages in Karakalpakstan on the left bank of the River.
3 Approximately 24% of households surveyed are using piped water for livestock and irrigation, while 59%
use wells and hand pumps and 66 % use canals, lakes, and ponds for these purposes.
4 The Red Cross installed a modem German built 2,200 cubic meter/day reverse osmosis desalinization unit
at Takhtakupr, some 100 km northeast of Nukus in April 1993, which has only been in operation for about 10%
of the time since it was commissioned because of the high cost of operation. With the completion of the
Tuyamuyun-Nukus pipeline extension to Takhtakupr in the summer of 1994, it is no longer needed.



- 48 -
these units are not in operation due to a lack of spare parts. And at five locations the units are now used only
for emergency purposes.
8.     Due to the limited water supply and/or water treatment capacity and the need for water conservation,
piped water is available on a 24 hour basis only in approximately 12% of the service area. According to the
results of the needs assessment, in other service areas, it is available only on an intermittent basis, either for
one or two times during the day, but usually for less than 2 hours per day (for greater than 70% of the area
served). Open water storage tanks are installed in 22% of the households surveyed5.
9.      Water Qua&iy. Drastic reductions in the use of mineral fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides have
occurred over the past several years as local prices have increased to world market levels. As a result,
residual levels in water supplies are usually well below the Uzbekistan water quality limits. Local surface
water sources, however, may still be contaminated by inappropriate methods of application or excessive use
of chemicals. The most immediate water quality problem in the region from a heath perspective is pathogenic
contamination from humans and livestock. Results of bacteriological analyses in the Tuyamuyun reservoir
as well as aquifers at depths of 30-40 meters and in deeper wells at 300400 meters, show little contamination.
Nonetheless, the Sanitary Epidemiological Service (Sanepid) found unacceptably high levels of bacteriological
contamination in shallow wells, surface irrigation canals, and other surface waters in the region that are used
by rural communities for drinking. In areas with intermittent piped water supplies, similar problems may exist
because of the infiltration of contaminated shallow ground water.
10.    Another water quality issue in the project areas is taste. Seasonally fluctuating salinity levels in
surface waters upstream and downstream of the Tuyamuyun reservoir are a cause of considerable complaint
by local consumers. Over 68% of households in the survey area complained of the salty taste of their
principal water supply6.
5 The capacities of these tanks vary from four buckets for small sized tanks to 2 cubic meters for large
tanks. No bottled water is used in the area surveyed.
6 For drinking water, the EU reconumends a maximum allowable concentration 1.5 grams/liter salinity.
Uzbekistan water quality norms set a maximum allowable concentration of 1.0 grams/liter salinity.
Concentrations in Tuyamuyun reservoir vary from 0.6-1.6 grams/liter, while downstream in Khorezm and
Karakalpakstan concentrations in the river and irrigation canals can reach as high as 2.4 grams/liter in the low
flow period of April. Salinity in the 30-40 meter aquifers near the canals, however, are much less variable in
the range of 0.7-1.3 grams/liter. Salinity in the deep aquifer varies from 1-3 grams/liter in eastern areas of the
region and up to 30 grams/liter in the western areas of Karakalpakstan.



- 49 -
PART I: PILOT PROJECT
Objectives
11.    The objectives of the assignment are to test on a pilot basis the engineering design, procurement,
contracting and supervision requirement for water supply and distribution schemes in the region proposed for
the Uzbekistan: Water Supply, Sanitation and Health project. The lessons gained from this experience will
be applied to the design and implementation of the full scale project.
Scope of Work
12.    The scope of work will include but not necessarily be limited to the following:
1.     Review the proposed schemes with community representatives, project design institutes,
Vodokanal and/or Agrovodolkanal, project feasibility consultant and Goskomprognostat to
ensure that the least cost and most appropriate technology is being applied, taking into
consideration future development plans for water supply in the region, as well as water
resource availability and water quality;
2.     Review appropriateness of detailed engineering designs, materials, equipment and construction
standards (GOSTs) being applied, design criteria, equipment specifications, etc. and suggest
revisions as appropriate. Check and revise cost estimates, draw up material and equipment
procurement packages;
3.     Contact community representatives (with the assistance of the Bank's community participation
specialist) to determine their willingness and ability to finance part of the projects with cash
and "in-kind" labour contributions. Agree with these groups project financing plans (partial
contributions to capital and O&M costs according to what they can afford) and project
implementation, management and operation arrangements (as per attached report in Annex
HI). In addition determine to what extent the community is able to participate in construction
activities with either " in kind" labour contribution and/or as paid laborers/contractors;
4.     Determine the local availability of materials and equipment which meet design specifications
and separate procurement packages into local and foreign suppliers;
5.     Contact local importers of foreign materials and equipment, as well as foreign suppliers to
determine sources which can supply "off the shelf", as the best CIF price. Place orders for
local and foreign procurement packages and arrange transportation, customs clearance (these
supplies will be exempt from import duties and other taxes);
6.     Contact local civil engineering/erection contractors, both public and private, to determine
which contractors could meet the quality standards required and have the necessary capacity
for implementation of the pilot projects. Determine if it would be feasible to select local
contractors under a competitive bidding process. If so, develop bid documents, arrange
competitive selection process and negotiate contracts with successful bidders;
7.     Arrange for supervision of pilot projects and evaluate the performance of local contractors
materials and equipment supplies, etc. Make recommendations for improving performance
and estimate their capacity for full scale implementation of the project; and



- 50 -
8.     Authorize payments for materials and equipment supplies, shippers, customs agents,
contractors etc. and keep financial records to a standard which meets the World Bank's
financial auditing requirements.
PART II: FULL SCALE PROJECT
Objectives
13.    The main objective of the services to be provided under the first phase of this assignment is to prepare
the detailed engineering designs and procurement packages for goods, works and services to be provided for
the full scale water supply, sanitation and health project. The second phase of the work will include project
supervision, negotiating contracts with suppliers and supervision of construction and start up of the project.
Scope of Services
14.    A team of International and local specialists ( the Consultant) will be engaged by Goskomprognostat
for this assignment. The contract will be divided into two phases, which will overlap, but will be funded from
different sources.
15.    The first phase of this work to be financed under an initial engineering loan will involve preparation
of full scale project engineering design and bid documents for equipment and works including: review of the
GIS database and project management information system that has been developed for the proposed full scale
project to assess its completeness and recommend improvements; based on feasibility study results firm up all
design criteria for major project facilities; review all detailed topographic surveys and soil investigations along
alignments of proposed transmission mains and sites for civil works and identify need for further surveys;
prepare hydraulic designs of the proposed project facilities; prepare detailed engineering designs and
construction drawings of the proposed facilities; prepare bill of quantities and divide the procurement of civil
and erection works and equipment into an appropriate number of contract packages according to the
requirements and procedures of the donors that will be financing these packages; prepare cost estimates for
each package; assist the PIU to review tender documents for each contract package; prepare a detailed
construction management plan for the project; prepare a detailed design report presenting the results of the
above tasks.
16.    The second phase of this work, which will not be financed under the engineering loan, but under the
full scale project will overlap with the detailed engineering design and will be part of the same contract. It
will involve services to assist the PIU in project supervision and monitoring, as well as contract bidding and
in supervising construction of facilities proposed under the project.
A.    Specifi Tasks for Phase I.
I.     Review of Detailed Design and Tender Documents
17.    For the preparation of tender designs and detailed engineering designs of the various construction sub-
projects, and preparation of tender documents for procurement of civil works and equipment, the tasks
required of the Consultant will include, but not be limited to, the following:
(i)    Brief review of existing database on the subproject areas which are necessary for water
supply planning. Such database would include base maps of the project areas (showing
ground contours, land use, roads, water courses, and water supply, sewerage and drainage



- 51 -
facilities) maps of the distribution networks, inventory of existing water supply and sewerage
facilities, number of connections, past water consumption, and socio-economic profile of
consumers;
(ii)    Based on the design criteria and information from previous reports, laboratory field tests and
surveys, firm up (a) water quality and treatability; (b) estimates of water consumption in each
subproject; (c) design criteria for major Project facilities; (d) the optimum design periods for
the required capacities of major Project facilities; (e) sustainable yield of all the proposed raw
water sources taking into account existing and potential competing and/or conflicting water
use over the design periods;
(iii)    Plan detailed topographic surveys and soil investigations along the alternative alignments of
proposed transmission mains and access roads, and of the proposed sites for water reservoirs,
intake structures and water treatment plant;
(iv)    Prepare the configurations for the proposed water supply schemes with due consideration
given to maximum use and integration of existing facilities, and land availability;
(v)    Prepare the hydraulic and functional designs of the proposed subproject facilities including
intake structures, water treatment plant, pumping stations, clear water reservoirs, transmission
mains, and distribution network. Explore the possibility of installing infiltration galleries for
all the intakes;
(vi)    Prepare detailed engineering designs and construction (not working) drawings of the facilities
that will cover details on site preparatory tasks, layout of facilities, simple architectural and
landscape designs for office and control buildings and the water treatment plant, foundation
and structural works, pipeline construction, mechanical works including piping works and
installation of pumps and other equipment, and electrical works including instrumentation and
control system;
vii)    Prepare bill of quantities and divide the procurement of civil works and equipment into an
appropriate number of contract packages, taking into account that procurement of civil works
will be done through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) or National Competitive
Bidding (NCB), while procurement of equipment will be either through International
Competitive Bidding or International Shopping (IS), or other procedures as required by
project co-financers. Prepare invitation packages for procurement of consultant services
according to World Bank Guidelines;
(viii)  Prepare the scope and detailed cost estimates for each contract broken down into foreign
exchange cost and local currency cost;
(ix)    Prepare tender documents for each contract package, including general specifications and
detailed technical specifications for materials, equipment, instrument, methods of construction
of civil works and methods of installation and fabrication for mechanical and electrical works;
(x)    Prepare a detailed construction management plan including an environmental management
plan, schedules for construction, bidding, financing including disbursement of the proceeds
of the loan and budget appropriation by the GOU, test run and start-up of all project
facilities; and



- 52 -
(xi)    Prepare detailed design reports presenting the results of all the above tasks.
18.    The services to be provided in the bidding stage, will include, but not limited to, assisting the GOU
in the following:
(i)    Prepare letters of invitation for bidding;
(ii)    Prequalify civil works contractors and prepare a shortlist of supplier;
(iii)    Evaluate the submitted bids and prepare bid evaluation reports as required by the Bank and
the GOU;
(iv)    Assist the PIU in conducting price and technical negotiations with the bidders;
(v)    Correspond with the Bank and other agencies concerned to seek endorsement or approval of
the results of bid evaluation and contract award; and
(vi)    Review and evaluate the validity of proposed subcontractors.
B.     Specific Tasks for Phase H
19.    During construction, the Consultant, on behalf of the GOU, will be responsible for field supervision
of the construction works by the contractors. Tasks will include but not be limited to, the following:
(i)    Update or revise, if necessary, the construction management plan and the cost estimates based
on the results of the bidding;
(ii)    Monitor the delivery and secure storage of materials and equipment;
(iii)    Review shop drawings prepared by the contractors and equipment manufacturers/suppliers;
(iv)    Monitor the contractors' topographic surveys to ensure correct alignments and elevators of
facilities and soil tests to ensure adequate data for foundation design;
(v)    Inspect materials and equipment delivered to the site of the works and witness tests of
materials and equipment to be incorporated in the works, if necessary, at the manufacturer's
premises;
(vi)    Supervise, inspect, measure and control the quality of the construction of works and the
installation of equipment to ensure compliance with drawings and specifications;
(vii)   Authorize interim payments for part completed works;
(viii)  Inspect and approve all completed works and check contractors' completed or as-built
schedule of quantities;
(ix)    Supervise the implementation of all safety and environmental protection measures;



- 53 -
(x)    Maintain records of progress of works and the results of inspections and test of materials and
equipment;
(xi)   Issue instructions on behalf of and with approval of the GOU to the contractors and
equipment suppliers in connection with the construction of the works and in accordance with
the contract documents;
(xii)   Make recommendations to the GOU and issue instructions, with the approval of the GOU,
to contractors on the extent of special inspections and testing required and to be carried out
in connection with the construction of works;
(xiii)  Compare actual with scheduled progress and advise the GOU of any developments that could
delay completion. Recommended any necessary actions to be taken by the GOU to facilitate
timely completion and construction;
(xiv)  Observe any change or previously unknown conditions that may require modifications to the
design and/or specifications of the works, advise the GOU of the same, and recommend
appropriate action; prepare any necessary extra work orders with the approval of the GOU;
(xv)   Prepare as-built drawings of the completed works prepared by the contractors for each
subproject;
(xvi)  Supervise pressure tests of the major pipelines, equipment start-up and commissioning;
(xvii)  Prepare O&M Manual for equipment and the water treatment plants that are constructed or
rehabilitated under the project; and
(xviii) Provide advice and suggestions to the GOU on the overall construction works.
(xix)  Attend meetings concerning Project implementation if and when required by the GOU;
(xx)  Maintain records and minutes of all construction-related activities;
(xxi)  Certify and recommend payment of claims by the contractors and suppliers;
(xxii) Review and evaluate extra payments claimed by the contractors and suppliers and make
recommendations thereon to the GOU;
(xxiii) Resolve disputes between the GOU on the one hand, and the contractors and/or suppliers on
the other;
(xxiv) Prepare documents for GOU to apply for disbursement of the loan proceeds by the Bank;
(xxv)  Prepare monthly progress reports for the GOU summarizing construction progress and the
status of expenditure on the works.
(xxvi) Ensure upon completion of works that the contractors provide such records and
manufacturers' manuals are reasonably necessary for the operation and maintenance of the
works;



-54 -
(xxvii) Inspect completed works and make recommendations to the PIU on the issuance of the
certificate of completion;
(xxviii) Prepare a project completion report that evaluates actual Project implementation against
planned implementation; and
(xxix) Facilitate the Bank's loan review missions.
Reporting, Schedule and Budget
20.    The consulting services are expected to cover a period of about five years in total, while it is expected
that Phase I will be completed in approximately 3 years. The Consultants shall observe the following
reporting schedule:
(i)    Inception report. To be submitted within three months after the commencement of the
contract. If major revisions are proposed to the terms of reference, a tripartite meeting
involving the GOU, the World Bank and the Consultants will be convened to discuss and
make decisions on the proposed revisions;
(ii)    Brief Progress Reports. To be submitted every two months after acceptance of the inception
report; and
(iii)   Project Completion Report to be submitted at the end of the services.
Tlhe Consultants will submit to the PIU six copies of each in English and Russian of the above reports. It is
estimated that 100 staff-months of foreign and 650 staff-months of local expert services will be required for
Phase I services, while 150 staff-months of foreign and 900 staff-months of local expert services are estimated
for Phase I.






- 55 -
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
PILOT WATER SUPPLY ENGINEERING PROJECT
ANNEX G
SUPERVISION PLAN
The staff input indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision at headquarters for
procurement review, correspondence and review of reports, which is estimated at 6 staff weeks per year for
the first three years.  The supervision plan covers the period until completion of the pilot project
implementation as the remaining activities will be included under the full scale project.
Start up of pilot project    * Water Supply Engineering & Procurement  4
October 1996   and tender design for full  Specialist
scale project.           * Community Participation Specialist
Review pilot project                                                  3
January 1997  implementation and       * Water Supply Engineering & Procurement
tender documentation       Specialist
preparation for full scale
project.
Inspect pilot project    * Water Supply Engineering & Procurement     4
works and evaluate         Specialist
May 1997      effectiveness of
community participation;  * Community Participation Specialist
and review bidding
process for full scale
project.
Sept. 1997    Review completion of     * Water Supply Engineering & Procurement      3
pilot project works.       Specialist



ANNEX H
|DIRECTOR
CHIEF ENGINEER ||DEPUTY DIRECTOR           DEPUTY DIRECTOR | | CHIEF                  PLANNING AND
MAINTENANCE           CONSTRUCTION          ACCOUNTANT           ECONOMICS
l   .                 l         l~~~~~~Lz~zIz             DEPARTMENT
DEPUTY CHIEF
ENGINEER          MATERIAL AND              CAPITAL           ACCOUNTING               I
TECHNICAL SUPPLY        CONSTRUCTION          DEPARTMENT          SUBSCRIBERS'
PRODUCTION         DEPTARTMENT             DEPARTMENT                               DEPARTMENT
TECHNICAL DEPT.           I                                                             --
WAREHOUSE FOR             TECHNICAL
MAINTENANCE         SUPERVISION GROUP
ENERGY DEPT.     WORKS                     T
DEPARTMENT                               CONSWARUCTONS WORK
_F TECHNICAL BUREAU
MUNICIPAL         HODJERLY                        TURTKUL          KORA-UZRAK        KEGEILY
WATER SUPPLY
OFFICE (NUKUS)     ASHUMANAI |RTAHTAKUPIR                             CHIMBAY         AKMANGU
__MANGU_TISBZN                                        BERUM L  L       ELK         L XMIA 
|FMUNICIPAL
SEWERAGE 
|WORKS (NUKUS)|
Figure HI1: Organizational Structure of the Productive Enterprise "Vodokanal" of the Republic of Karakalpakstan



UZBEKISTAN
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PILOT WATER SUPPLY
KA ZA KS T AN                                                                                                                                                                                                ENGINEERING PROJECT
'5  oX   _ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~~'~~~'   ~ ~ ~ ~   ~ ~   _                                                                                                  <5 - ~~~~~~~PROJECT LOCATION
|   \  Sea   ~ ~     ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     ~     ~         o    SELECTED CITIES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0   EECE CTE
\          E                                                     _                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KA ZA KS T AN                                               PROVINCE CAPITALS
i   \   ,  '   \                                                                                                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
i   <  Muynak Q  -   \                                                                                                                                    S | - RAILROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AIROD
i   8   ,  \    _ ~~~~~~~~~ ~~ ~~ ' ~~~~ _, _, -    '                                                                                    J _              _  -  INIERNAIIONAL BOL NDARIES~~~~~~~~~~~INERATINALBONDAIE
i ,t, 4 tua r J - tbr % - -~~~~~~~~ R E P U B L I C
\      Bukh u     J       ~~-.,                                           L.Abd                                                    0    25  5L 75 100 ,5 ; 0.1--
TURKMENISTAN                                                             '                           nd   ___                    ,,_r      ,r?  j- 
Ch.rd.B>_K      T A J I K I S T A N >>,
\, _,          Ic *                        fF         v >    Sbu ch|  /                            {t'          t |-                 t  L                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~~ ~~~~~~~~K AZAK STA N  
IS LA M  IC    R EP UB L IC              'T ''                                                                                ,r-.,             '         ',,                                     .        s       ~ t 4^r >6"r7,QG'l}                  l
0 ~   ~ ~ ~ \,, F' IRA                                                                                      ro5qr   AFHNSA                                            -UKElIN\r^rNo
'Q \ _' 55 7Q >,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAKISTAN                                                                                               I-IAMF rru _ FHn51s, _._ 7X






IBRD 27771
59"                                        60'                                       ,4Lthis rap -ea prod-cd by
th6 Mop Desig Uas of The
Worl     Bn      The
.' KAZAKSTAN                  b ..sdo,es,    color
other o/retn  how-s
thi -rp do not -ply nf
In\   r'se~~~~~~            the  p-rt  oP  rho  Wo-ld
-                      Book~~~8.  G-op, any ctoseo
if. tIre  lea   tti f any
A  r al                  S ea oi                                                                                                     - Z$it O.  any
9          I i  j   1Xs      \                            f such b-d-.,
- 44'   (                                                                                       r^ (        |                              \                                 44 _
'\_/  Muinao <ssjf"-   >                              5                                              UZBEKISTAN
R           U  -                 ~- VrX                                      PILOT WATER SUPPLY
((          I (  ut                              ENGINEERING PROJECT
<                                        E~~~~~~~~~~~ EKOS DESALINATION UNITS
____'_-   EXISTING & PROPOSED WATER PIPELINES
'5                                         ~~     ~~~~~~~~~~~0 SELECTED CITIES
--  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/            'j \Shumanay
Xbat~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e                                               4   k m    tertiary  Exiti g     di tib to
{  \ >      \    g  *       5i    r    Khalkaboo                                        i /   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~di stribution network   networks  
TURKMENISTAN                                                                                                        reseoi and
-42-'t  ^                                                                                          t                                                                         42 -
O    10   20   3D   40   50 Kilometers
I         I      I        I      7 -      7
O       10      20       30       40      50Miles
_Sor 50         60'              708              BO"->'x,85'                      a,a'
UR      ENTAN "KAZA  oSTANTurtA 'ul Ko .    x    -                                                                                                       2
N _ J4 > \   {.2<LCAPTAt                                                                                                 Reservoir p  a
46.)                  APHNSA                                                                                                                              Rs et T0t'
ISLA \I REULc     I.R (                    Y- RE NAINL AIA
OP URANKMAEHNISTAN                               CH - ItA NArOht6'6
rtg-- ~       TAI~TA- K7p0/
JULY 1996












