Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                    LOAN NUMBER 4090 UZ
                              Loan Agreement
                 (Pilot Water Supply Engineering Project)
                                 between
                          REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
                                   and
                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                             AND DEVELOPMENT
                        Dated September 27, 1996
                                                     LOAN NUMBER 4090 UZ
                             LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated September 27, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF
UZBEKISTAN (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     (B)  any financing so provided by the Bank would be refunded,
if the Bank so requests, out of the proceeds of any loan by the
Bank which may later be granted to the Borrower for the construction
of the Full-Scale Project (as defined in Section 1.02 of this Agree-
ment); and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
Page  2
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expendi-
          tures in the territories of any country which is not a
          member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
          supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose
          of any payment to persons or entities, or for any import
          of goods, if such payment or import, to the knowledge of
          the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United
          Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the
          Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as sub-
paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under
          which any further withdrawals under the Loan would be
          inconsistent with the provisions of Article III, Section
          3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the follow-
ing meanings:
     (a)  "Full-Scale Project" means a proposed water supply, sanita-
tion and health project to be undertaken by the Borrower to improve
the health of the rural populations of the Republic of Karakalpakstan
and Khorezm Region through the provision of safe drinking water and
improved hygiene education and sanitation facilities and to
strengthen institutional capacity for the management, operation and
financial performance of the regional water supply and sanitation
facilities;
     (b)  "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit established by
the Borrower for the preparation of the Full-Scale Project;
     (c)  "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.05 of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (e)  "Vodokanal" means a public corporation responsible for water
supply and sanitation facilities in the territory of the Borrower.
                               ARTICLE II
                                The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement,
various currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to
the amount of five million dollars ($5,000,000), being the sum of
withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued
by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree,
to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a separate special deposit account in a commercial
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including
Page  3
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the
Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest
               Period in which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as
               reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a
               percentage per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of
               the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such
               borrowings or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
               to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which
               may be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing
               interest rates determined otherwise than as provided
               in paragraph (a) of this Section.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
               months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six
months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of
this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount
          of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at
          a rate for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding Quarter,
          plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
          dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the
          Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal amount
          outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated
          at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter,
          the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c) (iii) 'Quarter' means a three-month period commencing
          on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar
          year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of
the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in
Page  4
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                                  ARTICLE III
                            Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due dili-
gence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial,
administrative, engineering and public utility practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procure-
ment of the goods, works and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation
of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views
with the Borrower on said plan.
     Section 3.04.  The Borrower shall maintain policies and procedures
adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in
accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
     Section 3.05.  The Borrower shall, for purposes of financing
Project costs, open and deposit in local currency equivalent to fifty
thousand Dollars ($50,000) and, until completion of the Project,
maintain a separate project account in a commercial bank with a
minimum balance amount therein deemed satisfactory by the Bank.
                                ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section, including those for the Special
               Account, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any
               case not later than six (6) months after the end of
               each such year, the report of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concerning
               said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the
               Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
Page  5
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such expendi-
               tures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's representatives to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause the PIU prior to December
31, 1996, and annually thereafter during execution of the Project, to
furnish to the Bank for its review; (i) a progress report in a format
and degree of detail acceptable to the Bank; (ii) an action plan and
budget for the following year; and (iii) recommendations for the
proposed timetable for implementation of the actions set out in the
action plan referred to in paragraph (ii) of this Section.
                                  ARTICLE V
                         Effective Date; Termination
     Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an additional
condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions: the Borrower shall have
opened the Project Account in accordance with Section 3.05 of this
Agreement.
     Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          Mustakillik Meydani
          Tashkent
          Republic of Uzbekistan
                                   Telex:
                                   116360 IKBOL
     For the Bank:
Page  6
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:           Telex:
               INTBAFRAD           248423 (MCI)
               Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF UZEBEKISTAN
               By /s/ Bahtier S. Hamidov
                                               Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Yukon Huang
                                         Acting Regional Vice President
                                                Europe and Central Asia
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                         Amount of the
                        Loan Allocated          % of
                        (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category         Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1)  Works                  800,000        80%
(2)  Goods                  900,000        100% of foreign
                                           expenditures,
                                           100% of local
                                           expenditures,
                                           (ex-factory
                                           cost) and 80%
                                           of local ex-
                                           penditures for
                                           other items pro-
                                           cured locally
(3)  Consultants'         2,800,000        100%
     services
(4)  Unallocated            500,000
                          _________
          TOTAL           5,000,000
Page  7
                          =========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods
supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the
Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods supplied from the territory of
the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures (i)
for goods and works under contracts costing less than $250,000 equi-
valent, and (ii) for consultants' services under contracts costing
less than $100,000 equivalent for the employment of consulting firms
and under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent for the
employment of individual consultants, under such terms and conditions
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to (i) improve the design and
implementation arrangements for the Full-Scale Project through the
carrying out of a pilot project incorporating community participation
into the planning and implementation process for water supply and
distribution; and (ii) develop and test joint financing and cost
recovery schemes to improve the financial viability of the Vodokanals
and the sustainability of their investments.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:  Water Supply Pilot Project
     Preparation and implementation of a pilot project for a community-
based water supply and distribution scheme in the Kizketken peri-urban
area of Nukus in the Autonomous Republic of Karakalpakstan comprising:
     (a)  construction of the Kizketken pumping station of about 310
cubic meters per hour capacity including two treated water storage
reservoirs with storage capacity of 1000 cubic meters each, and two
transformer substations;
     (b)  construction of a secondary pipeline of about 6.6 km length
and about 300 mm diameter from the pumping station to the point of
highest elevation in the settlement of Kizketken to connect with the
existing tertiary distribution network; and
     (c)  construction of a new extension of the tertiary distribution
system network in Kizketken of about 5 km length and of about 100 to
150 mm diameter along about 6 unpaved streets to serve an additional
400 families.
Part B:   Technical Assistance
1.   Preparation of engineering designs and bidding documents for
equipment and works for, and supervision of (i) the Project; and (ii)
the Full-Scale Project through the provision of technical assistance;
and
2.   Supporting the PIU in implementing the pilot project and to
develop management and monitoring systems for the Full-Scale Project
Page  8
through the provision of technical assistance.
                                  * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                            Amortization Schedule
                                       Payment of Principal
     Date Payment Due                 (expressed in Dollars)*
     January 1, 2002                           95,000
     July 1, 2002                             100,000
     January 1, 2003                          105,000
     July 1, 2003                             110,000
     January 1, 2004                          110,000
     July 1, 2004                             115,000
     January 1, 2005                          120,000
     July 1, 2005                             125,000
     January 1, 2006                          130,000
     July 1, 2006                             130,000
     January 1, 2007                          135,000
     July 1, 2007                             140,000
     January 1, 2008                          145,000
     July 1, 2008                             150,000
     January 1, 2009                          155,000
     July 1, 2009                             160,000
     January 1, 2010                          170,000
     July 1, 2010                             175,000
     January 1, 2011                          180,000
     July 1, 2011                             185,000
     January 1, 2012                          195,000
     July 1, 2012                             200,000
     January 1, 2013                          205,000
     July 1, 2013                             215,000
     January 1, 2014                          220,000
     July 1, 2014                             230,000
     January 1, 2015                          235,000
     July 1, 2015                             245,000
     January 1, 2016                          255,000
     July 1, 2016                             265,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below.
     Time of Prepayment                      Premium
                                 The interest rate (expressed
                                 as a percentage per annum)
                                 applicable to the Loan on the
                                 day of prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
Page  9
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not               0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before               1.00
     maturity
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January
1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as
applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
1 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   International Shopping
     Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent per contract,
up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1,080,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6
of the Guidelines.
2.   National Competitive Bidding
     Works estimated to cost less than $1,000,000 equivalent per con-
tract, up to an amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accor-
dance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guide-
lines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for goods and works awarded in
accordance with Parts B.1, C.1 and C.2 of this Section, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall
apply.
3.   Post Review
Page  10
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued
by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review
shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b)
single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a
critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value
to $50,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$100,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggre-
gate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request
Page  11
or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into
               the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents and
               other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect
               of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of
               each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid
               out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from
               the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts,
               as shall have been justified by said documents and
               other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that
such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the
provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02
of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal
the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories, shall
follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the
Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expen-
ditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
Page  12
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the any Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b)
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
