            Document of
         The World Bank




                                      Report No: 31858

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (SCL-41940)

              ON A

              LOAN

 IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 16.4 MILLION

               TO

            INDONESIA

             FOR THE

BEPEKA AUDIT MODERNIZATION PROJECT




           March 28, 2005

                                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective March 18, 2005)

                                  Currency Unit = Indonesian Rupiah (IDR)
                                     IDR 9,362 = US$ 1.00
                                          US$ 1 = IDR 9,362

                                       FISCAL YEAR
                                  January 1     December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADB Asian Development Bank
BPK BADAN PEMERIKSA KEUNGAN REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (State Audit Board)
CAS Country Assistance Strategy
CPA Certified Public Accountant
GAO Government Accounting Office
IDP Institutional Development Plan
LAN Local-Area Network
PAD Project Appraisal Document
PIU Project Implementation Unit
PMP Audit Management Manual
QAG Quality Assurance Group
SAI Supreme Audit Institution
WAN Wide-Area Network


                                Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
                              Country Director:     Andrew Steer
                                Sector Director:    Homi Kharas
                            Task Team Leader:       Nancy Chen

                                         INDONESIA
                     BEPEKA AUDIT MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              16
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             19
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             20
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             21
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             22
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                23
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            24
Annex 8. Partner Evaluation                                                      24

Project ID: P049051                                                  Project Name: BEPEKA AUDIT MODERNIZATION
                                                                     PROJECT
Team Leader: Nancy Chen                                              TL Unit: EASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 28, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: BEPEKA AUDIT MODERNIZATION                               L/C/TF Number: SCL-41940
                            PROJECT
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Other accountability/anti-corruption (P); Administrative and civil
                            service reform (P); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/11/1996                                     Effective: 09/09/1997                09/09/1997
     Appraisal: 02/24/1997                                         MTR: 12/31/2001                  12/31/2001
      Approval: 06/17/1997                                      Closing: 12/31/2002                 09/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Govenment of Indonesia/Bepeka
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager/Director:        Homi Kharas                                    Peter Scherer
Team Leader at ICR:             Nancy Chen                                     Nadereh Chamlou
ICR Primary Author:             Nancy Chen; Michael Jacobs;
                                Consultant


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) of May 21, 1997, and the Loan
Agreement (No. 4194 IND dated August 4,1997) was to help BPK improve its assessment of
public finance accountability by enhancing BPK's financial and performance audit capabilities. To
meet this objective, the Project would (1) support BPK's efforts to remove existing audit scope
limitations and other regulatory constraints and carry out full-fledged financial and performance
audits; (2) promote user demand for such audits; (3) reduce internal supply constraints by
upgrading technical and managerial skills; (4) build up the audit management information system;
and (5) institutionalize international best practices. The project supports the then existing CAS
objective of improving public sector management.

3.2 Revised Objective:

 The has been no change to the original objectives.

3.3 Original Components:

The Loan Agreement provided for two components to the project: Part A : Strategic Planning and
Part B: Institutional Development. Strategic Planning component would improve BPK
capabilities to develop and implement its long-term strategy and its enabling legal framework
through provision of specialist advisory services. Institutional Development component would
cover staff training and audit improvement as well as management advisory services for
implementation of the Project.


3.4 Revised Components:

The PAD proposed retaining an international expert to conduct various assessments of current
BPK strategies and the legal framework. An Adviser from the Cour des Comptes, the
BPK-equivalent body in France, was appointed. In 2000 the Adviser prepared an Institutional
Development Plan (IDP) for the years 2001­2003. The chairman of BPK lent his strong support
both to the development of the IDP and to its subsequent implementation. The draft plan was
available in April 2000 and a final plan was accepted by the BPK Board in November 2000.

The accepted IDP added components to the PAD and the Loan Agreement by setting down
Project elements for human resource management and for the introduction of counselors to assist
with the legal aspects of reports. The main IDP components are : Legal, Governance,
Management & Decentralization, Audit Management, Human Resources, Information Systems,
and Training.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

The quality at entry of the Project is rated as Satisfactorybut with considerable room for
improvement. The Project demonstrated the Bank support for SAI and was complementary to



                                                  - 2 -

other Bank and government activities to sharpen budget and public expenditure processes at that
time. Major design weaknesses are as follows:

The design was too ambitious. The achievement of the first three development objectives, to a
large extent, depend on strong support from and political will of key stakeholders such as the
Parliament and various government ministries/agencies. This can be further explained as follows:
(i) There had been general reluctance of Parliament, National Police and the Attorney General's
Office in taking effective action on BPK audit reports. The willingness to follow up on audit
findings is essential if BPK is to play an effective role in accountability and good governance; (ii)
While one of the Project objectives is to upgrade BPK's technical and managerial skills, there is
no component addressing the external public service constraints. The only social reengineering in
the PAD was to provide improved technologies for audit management and to provide an advisor
to the BPK chairman for general assistance. The substantial reengineering of human resources
management was later seen as a vital component in 2000 when the Project was restructured, but
there were difficulties in moving from standard civil service procedures due to the scale of the
necessary changes and the external public service constraints on such innovations; and (iii) While
BPK's operating budget has increased over the past seven years, BPK is still being perceived as
lacking independence due to its relying on the government for its operating budget. All these
support the fact that the Project needed components that supported reform efforts in key external
agencies.

Emphasis on foreign master's degree was misguided. In mid-1999, the Project was subjected
to a review by the Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG). The review raised concerns that bulk
of the loan was directed toward the provision of training to BPK staff, especially through
attendance at foreign universities for master's degree courses, noting concerns about the potential
loss to BPK of trained staff on return. While master's degrees broaden skill sets, but they are not
clearly related to auditors' tasks in BPK. Usually SAI staff skills are enhanced by increasing the
numbers of staff with CPA qualifications, or in BPK's situation, registered accountants.
Registration is important because it enables accountants to sign audit opinions on financial
statements, and this is the key task of a member of the SAI. It seems safe to predict that the staff
who have obtained foreign graduate degrees will drive change within BPK, but registered
accountants might well drive more important changes. The subsequent IDP made significant
changes to Project components, including reduction of the proportion of funding for overseas
training. The current policy at BPK is to favor staff who have received the in-country training
under the Project for promotion so that they will be in the key Section Chief line positions.

The Role of BPK Board was not dealt with in the PAD or IDP. The Project experienced delays
which appeared to come from decision-making problems, but also illustrated some structural
difficulties encountered when a non technical Board deals with technical matters better resolved at
operational levels. For example, several audit technical application guidelines which had been
submitted to the Board in March 2004 are still not approved.

Institutional constraints were not analyzed. The IDP failed to properly analyze institutional
constraints when it set out a detailed design for BPK operation. This design was based on
practices in the equivalent body in France; but French practices were very different from those in



                                                  - 3 -

place in BPK and the Indonesian public service sector in general. Modeling the French approach
provided a strong direction, but design of the IDP would have benefited from extensive
consultation with senior BPK managers, as well as with public sector authorities for the general
changes to human resource management and reward structures suggested by the IDP. The
inclusion of a specific component for change management in the IDP could have greatly improved
the speed and success of implementation in BPK.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

While the overall outcome is rated unsatisfactory,the Project achieved three of five development
objectives, and the key performance indicators (Annex 1) have been substantially achieved. In
addition, the Project is satisfactory in 4 of its 6 components. Were this Project to be evaluated
under the new rules which will become effective on July 1, 2005, the outcome would be
considered Partially Satisfactory.

Objective (a): Support BPK's efforts to remove existing audit scope limitations and other
regulatory constraints and carry out full-fledged financial and performance audits. To
achieve this objective, the Project successfully concentrated on improving the legal environment
for the audit mandate. A major increase in BPK accountability was achieved through Article 30 of
the 2003 Law on State Finance, which empowered the BPK Board to provide audit reports on
financial statements to central and regional government, as well as to state and regional
enterprises. The new Audit Law No. 15 of 2004, among others, empowered BPK to issue claims
for losses incurred by the State, and to impose fines on the auditee for withholding information or
obstructing the audit process. These laws are being implemented. Ideally an audit law would
normally address matters such as organization and functioning of an SAI. Despite BPK's efforts
and pleading, these issues were not covered in the new audit law. Thus, BPK Law was proposed
in 2004 to address organization and functioning of BPK. This law awaits approval by the
Parliament. This objective can be said to be partially satisfactorily met.

Objective (b): Promote user demand for such audits. User demand has increased over the
past seven years. Comparing to the base-line indicators, the project showed a substantial increase
in work program and substantial growth in on-call audits following Parliamentary and other
requests. BPK budget comes from the Ministry of Finance based on an audit-by-audit basis. It is
also evidenced by increase in its budget funding from Rp 74,000 million in 1998 to Rp 234,086
million in 2004, or an increase of 216%, well above the normal increase for inflation that the
government uses as a benchmark for budget funding. The increased user demand is consistent
with the improved public image of BPK; which is seen as an important institution that plays an
effective role in the framework of good governance and accountability. Based on an opinion poll,
the public believe that BPK is a highly important institution and that it has made good progress
over the past few years in reporting irregularities and misuse of state funds to the relevant
authorities. It can be said that this objective has been satisfactorily met.

Objective (c): Reduce internal supply constraints by upgrading technical and managerial
skills. The Project has not been able to effect the changes required to reform BPK's organization



                                                   - 4 -

structure because of external difficulties in moving from standard Civil Service procedures. For
example, promotion policy has stayed within the Civil Service framework and has not been fully
reformed. While efforts have been made to give more attention to recruiting honest, competent
staff through psychometric testing of applicants, but staff pay is still inadequate and less than
equivalent staff in other government agencies. The proposed BPK Law would make BPK more
independent in its budgetary and managerial arrangements. There remain human resource
management deficiencies that need to be reformed for an efficient staff management process.

While improving audit technical skills is a long-term process, the current staffing structure does
not allow for effective and sustainable in-depth training in specialized audits. This ties back to the
much needed human resource reform discussed above, which would help improve the staffing
structure, enhance audit skills, and provide flexibility to implement audit programs. This objective
is not satisfactorily met.

Objective (d): Build up the audit management information system. BPK has moved from a
state of low level of computerization to a state-of-the-art architecture. The audit management
information system which is based on a WAN, was seen as an important lever of change,
especially in the context of the decentralization. This technology has introduced substantial
changes in audit process including data collection, reporting and audit planning. File availability is
much wider through access-controlled file sharing arrangements. Review of audit reports is
already being carried out by supervisors on their computer. Seven regional offices have effective
local-area network (LAN) and WAN systems in operation. Audit teams carry laptops during field
trips for data collection and report preparation. There are evident productivity gains from
networked computer facilities. This objective is considered satisfactorily met.

Objective (e): Institutionalize international best practices. Though BPK's Government
Auditing Standards were revised to correspond to U.S. General Accounting Office general
standards, Audit Management Manual and Audit Guidelines have been prepared and used by audit
staff, Board approval has not yet been sought for the distribution of the Audit Guidelines which
would support best-practice audit methodology. Until audit methodology is fully implemented,
this objective is not satisfactorily met.

4.2 Outputs by components:


Legal component

This component had two outputs: an improved, enabling legal framework, including an expanded
financial and performance audit mandate; and an improved capacity to handle legal issues through
new knowledgeable legal counselors. Both outputs have been achieved satisfactorily. The
component is considered satisfactory.

    The Loan Agreement included the objective of improving the enabling legal framework for
BPK. Various legal changes during the Project have greatly enhanced the mandate of BPK, as
outlined in Table 4.2.1 below.



          Table 4.2.1 Legal Changes

                                                 - 5 -

 (a)     Third Amendment to the Constitution, November 9, 2001, expanded BPK's mandate to audit the
         regional financial reports for the 474 regional parliaments and authorized BPK to establish a presence in
         each of Indonesia's provinces.
(b)      Bank Indonesia (central bank) law was amended requiring BPK and not the other state audit body
         (BPKP) to be the external auditor of the central bank.
(c)      Laws Nos. 22 and 25 on Autonomy of Local Government and Decentralization removed BPKP's role in
         conducting external audits of regional government.
(d)      State Finance Law No. 17 of 2003 required BPK to audit reports of state and regional budget
         implementation. These reports are to be in accordance with government auditing standards to be
         developed by an independent standards committee and promulgated after obtaining the assent of BPK.
(e)      Treasury Law No. 1 of 2004 required financial reports to be prepared by treasury at the end of the
         financial year for receivables, payables, investments, cash, bank balances, and the fixed assets of central
         and regional governments. The BPK is required to audit these reports.
(f)      Audit Law No. 15 of 2004 includes the following measures:
         - the authority for performance audits--the obligation of the government to exercise just, effective
         and transparent management in compliance with laws and regulations.
         - a mandate to audit all financial transactions of state, provincial and district governments.
         - the requirement that BPKP and other internal audit reports be submitted to BPK
         - the requirement that BPK evaluate internal control systems
         - the establishment of new procedures for audit reporting and follow up
         - the empowerment of BPK to issue claims for losses incurred by state
         - the establishment of fines and penalties on the auditee for withholding information or obstructing
         the audit process
         - the establishment of fines and penalties on the auditor for misusing authority by not reporting findings
         or for neglecting to follow up recommendations.
 (g)     A proposed BPK Law relating to the organization and functioning of BPK, which is currently being
         considered by the parliament for approval. The draft law covers such matters as the composition of the
         board, the appointment process for board members and their tenure, and various measures to give BPK
         more independence over its budget and its management processes.


In accordance with the IDP, the new positions of Legal Counselor at Headquarters and Legal
Advisers in Regions were introduced. These new officers assist auditors in identifying misuse of
state resources during audits, and help ensure that the audit reports refer to legal aspects properly.
At the time of writing, these officers had reviewed 524 reports in Jakarta and 31 reports in the
regional offices, indicating that the function is well established. Referral of issues for investigation
by the Attorney General is also handled by the Counselor and Adviser. About 20 reports have
been referred.

Governance, management, and decentralization component

This component has been achieved satisfactorilyand implementation is on-going. A major change
affecting BPK since 1997 has been the government's decentralization process. In 2001, BPK was
empowered to establish an audit office in each province. The Project assisted the regional audit
staff to be deployed to fieldwork and training to support this expansion and refocusing. To date
around 200 of the 416 municipal accounts are being audited by BPK with plans to reach 100
percent by 2007. Currently, each of the eight regional offices covers multiple provinces.

The Project supported the recruitment of registered accountants to the regional offices and


                                                       - 6 -

provided sufficient expertise for the current level of work. Under the component, audit reports
cover audit opinion, review of internal control systems, comments on the adequacy of the
accounting process, and observations on instances of noncompliance. This coverage is in
accordance with the intentions of this Project for regional audits.

Audit management component

The Loan Agreement set the objective of improving the auditing systems through (1) upgrading
the audit MIS, (2) updating manuals and practical guides for carrying out performance and
financial audits, and (3) monitoring pilot performance and conducting financial audits to test the
improved quality of government auditing. These areas have been addressed. However, Board
approval has not yet been obtained for the distribution of the audit technical application guidelines
that would support best-practice auditing methodology; and until the guidelines are implemented
this component is rated as unsatisfactory.

The IDP proposed the following reforms (sub-components):

· Merit-based recruitment and promotion policies. Recruitment has been improved
    substantially by requiring graduate accounting qualifications for new recruits rather than
    recruiting at secondary school level.

· Flatter organization structure with a higher proportion of skilled resources applied to
    fieldwork and audit report preparation. The skill levels of field auditors have increased
    through the extensive training programs provided by this Project. Currently public-service
    staffing rigidities have deterred reduction in the managerial levels of the four-tier echelon
    structure. Although the flatter organization structures have not been put into effect properly,
    senior staff have become more involved in the audit process through the greater
    communication afforded by new IT systems. Audit reports are now available throughout the
    management structure, from audit staff to chief auditor using file sharing on the WAN.

· More flexible annual audit planning. Audit planning is restrained by the current budgeting
    process, whereby budgets are negotiated in part with the Ministry of Finance on an
    audit-by-audit basis rather than a block basis. Once the BPK Law is enacted, BPK hopes to
    become more flexible by gaining more control over the formulation of its budget.

· ore specialized skills for auditors. To date, 398 staff have acquired degrees under the Bank
    training program (305 from local universities and 93 from overseas universities). Many staff
    have attended overseas and BPK Training Center short courses for work experience or
    technical training. An additional 30 staff became registered auditors through the government
    certification program, 15 staff became Certified Public Accountants, 4 staff became Certified
    Internal Auditor by the Institute of Internal Auditors, and 2 staff became Certified Information
    Systems Auditors by the Information System and Control Association.

· Modernized audit process. BPK's high-level Government Auditing Standards are being
    revised to correspond to U.S. General Accounting Office general standards. The Audit



                                                  - 7 -

    Management Manual (PMP), prepared in 2002 and updated following the enactment of the
    Audit Law No. 15 of 2004, has been widely distributed within BPK. The updated manual is
    supported by more detailed Audit Guidelines for financial attest audits, performance audits,
    internal control assessments, audit sampling, materiality assessments, risk assessments, audit
    of financial reports of regional governments, audits of financial reports of government-owned
    enterprises, and the application of computer-aided audit techniques. These guidelines were
    presented to the Board for approval.

Human resources component

This component is rated unsatisfactorybecause the more important elements have not been
implemented. The IDP identified reengineering of human resources management procedures as a
vital component of the overall plan. The main activities under this component included (1)
appointing an executive adviser for human resources and a career manager to develop and
implement reforms, (2) developing a promotion review policy and a performance appraisal policy,
(3) establishing an internal communication function, (4) conducting an annual staff survey, and (5)
developing a library program. Of these five items the first two did not occur. The others were
achieved.

While much remains to be done, some valuable reforms have been affected. BPK has moved to
recruit graduate auditor staff and concentrate on appointing registered accountants or CPAs,
which has markedly improved the expertise levels. In the future, selection criteria for recruitment
and promotion are to be formally updated.

BPK intends to move ahead with the reforms envisaged in this component when it has more
independence from the civil service structures. It has proposed legislation (the BPK Law) that
would make it more independent in its budgetary and management arrangements and this proposal
is currently in the legislative process.

Information systems component

This component has been very successfully completed and its potential is still being discovered in
BPK. Completed work under the component includes:

(a) Office Automation. Office automation tools such as Word, Excel, and Power Point have
assisted auditors in data analysis, audit report preparation, audit review by supervisors, etc. They
have improved the work environment as more and more documents for audit purposes are
available electronically. File sharing mechanisms allow auditors easy access to reports. This has
significantly reduced the time to manually retrieve reports, thereby enhancing audit efficiency. A
total of 1,319 PCs were provided under the project compared to zero computers in 1997.

(b) Information Access. Implementation of WAN and LAN significantly improved
communication among BPK audit offices. E-mail has become the main form of exchange of
information. Both Intranet and Internet access are available to staff.




                                                  - 8 -

(c) Use of Audit Software. 100 CAAT software packages have been acquired and over 700
auditors have been trained to use the software packages. The Audit Tracking System has been
pilot tested and is now being modified.

(d) Information System Organization. A Help Desk function has been established in Electronic
Data Processing division. A number of IT policies and procedures have been developed.

(e) Audit Support. Personnel and Training Application software have been provided to help
manage auditors' personnel information and BPK's training program.

In addition, web-based e-learning and e-library systems have been developed and are fully
operational.

This component is considered satisfactory.

Training component

The Loan Agreement set the objective of improving the auditing systems through (1) provision of
overseas and in-country training for BPK auditors and the staff of agencies implementing BPK
findings, and (2) development and implementation of an on-the-job training program. The PAD
envisaged substantial in-country and overseas scholarships for master's degrees. About 140 staff
have completed bachelor requirements in-country. Of the 55 auditors sent overseas under the
Project for degree programs during 2001­2004, none have left the BPK. Overall, morale
improved in the BPK especially as many of the auditors returning from training were promoted
and given higher-level work. Please refer to Audit Management component for more detail.

This component is rated satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

Overall, the Project has had a substantial impact on the institution. The Project supported (1) legal
changes that greatly enhanced the mandate of BPK as the supreme audit institution; (2)
introduced the governance and management arrangements within BPK that made staff more
independent and accountable for their work; and (3) implemented a strong audit management and
information system, the technology of which has been used effectively for planning and report
preparation.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:




                                                     - 9 -

        None

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

The HR component suffered from a lack of support from government for significant reform of
personnel policies. In particular the application of seniority principles for assignment and
promotion left people in important training positions for which specialist trainers would have been
more effective. These problems were moderated later in the Project as BPK initiated new
promotion strategies based on merit and psychometric tests rather than seniority. However, these
initiatives are not entrenched.

The new Audit Law which was passed in June 2004 could have covered issues relating to
organization structure and budget independence of BPK. Despite BPK's efforts, these matters
were not considered. The proposed BPK Law would not have been necessary if these matters
had been considered in the Audit Law.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

·       The speed of implementation of the Project suffered from lack of commitment by chief
auditors (Totamas) until the value of the Project became clear to them. This was most evident in
their reluctance to release staff for training activities, and their reluctance to provide effective
senior counterparts for the PIU. This reluctance was caused in part by the inflexible process by
which auditors are allocated for fixed periods to audits--a process that the Implementation
Adviser unsuccessfully tried to change.

·       The speed of implementation was also affected by the strong hierarchical structure of BPK
whereby the Board makes all policy decisions. For example, audit manuals and guidelines were
held up or rejected after long delays.

·       The process of seeking Board approval for the audit management manual has been very
protracted ­ up to one year. The Project was also affected by the nature of decision making and
communication in BPK which is governed by a Board that is well separated from the operational
command structure of the Totamas that manage the auditors. When a policy group is separated
from the operational group but in practice the policy group makes many operational decisions,
those decisions tend to go un-questioned.

·       The Project gained strong internal support at the very top management levels and as a
result BPK innovation was strong even within its external constraints. For example, the BPK
Secretary General is exercising a policy to use merit-based promotion so that staff who have
received in-country training under the Project are able to compete for the Section Chief line
positions. The Chairman strongly supported the Project and the use of trained staff in important
tasks.

5.4 Costs and financing:

The completion cost for the Project was US$17.19 million, about 82% of the appraisal estimate.



                                                    - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Legislation has restored BPK's audit mandate over public sector bodies. The Project has supplied
major improvements to key resources including IT, training, and staff skills. In IT the Project has
developed an Office-wide network of 1,319 PCs and 650 notebook computers for the 2,360
auditors. An enhanced Training Center is in place in Jakarta, with newly developed courses and a
substantial number of staff who have been educated at the Center as course developers and
trainers. Expertise has been upgraded for the long term by substantial increases in the number of
staff with relevant skills. There has been a large increase in the number of registered accountants
(around 900 of the 2,360 auditors have accounting degrees, of which 432 are registered
accountants) and staff with master's degrees (up from 4 to 93); the Project Impact Assessment
now reports that 80­85 percent of staff are now qualified. The recruitment of staff at the entry
level has moved up to graduate level from secondary school level. Improved audit methodologies
have been developed and are ready for implementation. These are major improvements that would
not have occurred without the Project and which provide momentum for more progress.

These sustainable improvements in technology and skill levels have already led to improvements
in audits and to changes in working behavior as computers are used routinely for e-mail, in field
audit work, and for preparing and reviewing reports. The new ADB project will provide
continued support in the areas of training, audit improvement, IT, human resources management,
and public awareness of the BPK reports. These activities will directly bear on the sustainability of
the Project's results.

Towards the end of the Project, BPK has managed to operate its IT infrastructure and network on
its own, with limited support from a local consultant as needed. This implies the successful
transfer of technology.

Overall, project sustainability is considered likely.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

The BPK budget tripled between 2000 and 2004 so maintenance of the IT investment is within
BPK's competence. The ADB project includes support for IT professionals.

The Training Center in Jakarta has been expanded and equipped with computers and training
materials. A large number of staff have qualified as trainers through the Train the Trainers
program. Through their positive effect on skills development, graduate-level recruitment and the
Training Center are self sustaining. The audit methodologies and guidelines will be further
developed with support from the ADB project.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:




                                                  - 11 -

Bank lending is considered satisfactory as the Project substantially reflected the urgency to
strengthen BPK as the Supreme Audit Institution(SAI) ascertaining the accountability of public
funds. However, there were some design weaknesses. These weaknesses are described in section
3.5 of the ICR.

7.2 Supervision:

Bank supervision is considered satisfactory but with room for improvement. After the project
became effective in November 1997, it was in limbo due to changes in the country's political
environment. In early 1999 it was considered an orphan project by the newly assigned Task Team
Leader. Implementation strategy could have been better sequenced during the initial 2-3 years of
implementation. For example, while the Project slowed down in critical areas such as the
appointment of the Strategic Planning Advisor, overseas training got off the ground quickly. As
the engagement of a Strategic Planning Advisor is central to achievement of project objectives,
overseas training support should have followed the strategic assessment.

Given the fact that the initial task team did not have anyone with extensive background in the
auditing profession, it outsourced technical advice and proposed an independent strategic review
of BPK, with the objective of developing a credible program for moving the implementation
forward. As a result, the IDP was drafted by BPK with the assistance of foreign consultants. The
involvement of the Bank monitoring missions was beneficial in restarting and reenergizing the
Project. Assigning a senior member of the Cour des Comptes as an implementation adviser on a
more regular basis than originally intended, combined with the agreement to extend the Project by
nine months for almost full implementation, was crucial to the success of the Project. Because the
IDP was developed quickly, it did not address external factors as thoroughly as issues of change
management. The task team tried to address some of the issues as follows. First, a mission
comprising Bank senior advisers met with various stakeholders and developed a paper entitled
"Reform of Public Sector Audit Arrangements in Indonesia--Options, Advantages, and
Disadvantages." This paper is intended to help the Indonesian government resolve the duplication
of external audit functions. Second, a Lead Accountability Specialist from the Bank was engaged
to work with BPK on reporting to parliament.

Throughout the supervision phase, a limited budget has been a constraint; project implementation
coincided with a period of large budget cuts throughout the Bank. The Bank needs to understand
that supervision of governance projects is a more extensive undertaking than supervision of an
infrastructure project, thereby costing more resources.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Overall Bank performance is considered satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

The former BPK Chairman and Board that were involved in project preparation were not
available to provide feedback. There is no information on file that can be used for this analysis.



                                                 - 12 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:

  The Borrower's performance is considered partially satisfactory. The Planning Agency
(BAPENAS) and the Ministry of Finance ensured that the Project had sufficient counterpart
funding. However, neither BAPENAS nor the Ministry of Finance supervised or monitored the
Project. The only monitoring report was from the Directorate of Monitoring and Fund Evaluation
(DMFE) of BAPENAS. This was a quarterly report that covered all projects in Indonesia. The
DMFE mainly conducted its monitoring through desk review. There was no budget available for
conducting site visits unless financed by the Project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

The performance of the PIU was considered satisfactory,particularly over the last two years, in
improved records management, fixed asset management and management of the Special Account.

There was a lack of ownership/leadership in the initial 2-3 years of project implementation. The
situation results primarily from in-country political difficulties which is attributable to the lack of a
chairman at BPK for 9 months in 1998. This had caused the overall slow progress in project
implementation in the early years.

There were frequent changes in project managers during the Project. The changes had a negative
impact on the project implementation because of the learning curve for new project managers.
The project managers, who were relatively younger than the Totamas, struggled to play an
effective role, given the seniority system of the institution. Despite the difficulties, the last project
management team is considered to have performed satisfactorily, and played a significant role in
moving the implementation forward. In addition, as stated in section 5 of the ICR, the project
suffered from a lack of commitment by the Totamas until the value of the project became clear to
them.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is considered satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

l Faulty implementation strategy.The overseas training support should have followed the
    strategic assessment as specified in the PAD. The PAD also specified recruitment of an
    international expert for the strategic assessment but this was delayed for some years. An IDP
    at project outset would have identified the need to rearrange training priorities, as well as
    major procedural and structural problems in the SAI that needed more attention.
l Lack of ownership in the IDP design. The IDP was developed by a small team of consultants
    without forming a joint BPK/consultants task force. An external effort did not provide the
    integrated effort that comes from an embedded adviser as envisaged in the PAD. As it turned
    out, the IDP did not have the analytical support to assess the problems created for the Project
    by structural restrictions in BPK and in the civil service.
l Unaddressed external factors. The Project needed components that supported reform efforts
    in key external agencies. The Project was held back by public service constraints on
    restructuring, as well as ineffective recruitment, remuneration, promotion, and human


                                                 - 13 -

    resource management systems and personnel policies. It seems that a parallel civil service
    reform effort was required. Only by addressing these external factors would BPK had more
    independence from the civil service structures in its budgetary and administrative
    arrangements.
l Ambitious project design. The Project design expected that audit quality of BPK would meet
    international best practices through classroom training by Project closure. As auditing skills
    are normally developed through continuous on-the job training, the Project should be assessed
    in the context of taking steps to enhance BPK's audit capabilities, rather than bringing BPK
    up to best practice by Project closure.
l Change management. The IDP needed a change management component that targeted the
    structural issues in BPK. The Project was also affected by the nature of decision making and
    communications in BPK, which is governed by a Board that is well separated from the
    operational command structures of the Totamas and auditamas. Thus, the policy group was
    separated from the operational group, but the policy group made many operational decisions
    which tended to go unquestioned. In this arrangement reforms need to bring two distinct
    groups into agreement: the Board, to agree with the direction and details of the reform, and
    the Totamas (heads of auditamas), to agree to implement the decisions with enthusiasm. The
    IDP should have given more time to the internal and external institutional arrangements; if this
    was not practical, the IDP should have added a change management component
l Lack of middle and lower-level management ownership. The Project tried to secure
    middle-level staff support at a later stage of implementation, but could not effectively address
    the concerns at lower staffing levels about inadequate remuneration, given the external
    constraints described above. For successful institutional change, staff at all levels need to be
    brought on board in the planning and decision making, and provided with reasons to support
    the changes.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

 On August 4, 1997, a loan has been provided by World Bank to Indonesian Government which
was peculiarly addressed for BPK. The project is aim "to assist BPK to better assess the
accountability of public finances through the enhancement of its performance and financial
audit capabilities".

After two partial cancellations, the final amount of the loan has been of 14,630,000 US $, and the
implementation period extended up to September 30, 2004. The implementation of the project,
and therefore the disbursement of the loan, have been limited during the first 4 years, and then
became significant and successful during the 3 last years. The percentage of loan disbursed was of
more or less 7 % during each of the 5 first years, and then 16 % in 2002, 27 % in 2003 and 19 %
in 2004 (9 months), for a final disbursement ratio over 96 %.

Audits implemented during project period show a significant increase in quantity, but a more
problematic progress in quality. Most of them restrain to compliance review with laws and
regulations ; financial statements audit develops only in some specific areas ; and performance
audit is just been born. However, during the same period, audit methodology has been updated in



                                                 - 14 -

a new Manual, practical guides have been issued, and auditors show a real motivation towards
audit practice improvement. BPK considers this component as hardly satisfactory.Information
technology has been brilliantly developed during the period and thanks to the loan. Equipment are
now available in every units, cabling and networking are achieved. The technical BPK IT team is
self-sufficient and manage the system without anymore overseas technical assistance. The culture
of BPK members deeply changed, auditors become familiar with electronic communication and
are eager for applications related to audit implementation. BPK considers this component as
highly satisfactory.

Massive training has been delivered during the period and thanks to the project. It has been
successful in enlarging widely the auditors understanding of accounting and audit issues, less
successful in providing in-depth skills in relation with diversified audits to be implemented. BPK
Training Center has been deeply transformed and up-dated, which ensure a permanent
development of relevant training in relation with BPK audit improvement. BPK considers this
component as satisfactory.

Human resources management is the main chess of the project. Constraints from legal rules
applying to civil servants and legal bodies are heavy and did not let room to some significant
improvement. The only significant progress relies on promotion of young talents, despite a
seniority promotion system, that BPK could partially implement during the last years of the
project. A new law applying to BPK, presently debated in Parliament, may give a break for a
much more dynamic human resources and career management. BPK considers this component as
non satisfactory.

Decentralization of BPK has been boosted in the meanwhile of project implantation by a
Constitutional amendment requesting the implementation of BPK decentralized offices in every
province (32 provinces). Despite persisting ambiguities on BPK decentralization, the project
benefited to regional offices extension and staffing. The crucial phase, including exact balance
between regional offices autonomy and national consistency, is to be faced in the very near future.
BPK considers this component as moderately satisfactory.

During the World Bank project period, BPK improved its status and legal capacity in to directions
: externally, by contributing to legal framework improvement ; internally, by creating the Legal
Counselor ­ Legal advisers system. A high proportion of laws governing BPK status and activities
have been revised and amended during project period. BPK teams were highly involved in
preparation and debates in Parliament committees, with unequal success. Internally, BPK created
a system of Legal Counselor in Headquarters duplicated by Legal Advisers in regional offices in
order to improve the legal appraisal of audit findings and to provide better legal assessment to the
prosecutors in charge of judicial followings. The system is now working well and proves its
significant added-value. BPK considers this component as satisfactory.

As a global conclusion, BPK considers that the project implementation played a crucial role in
BPK modernization in a difficult stage of its development. If disappointing in some areas, the
project implementation was very successful in others and created a non-reversible process of
modernization, paving way for substantial consequent progress in the near future. All together, it



                                                - 15 -

justifies a very positive appraisal of the efficiency of World Bank loan, and a reasonable optimism
towards the capacity of the young Indonesian democracy to set up the appropriate external audit
institution essential to any balanced democracy.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information

Not applicable.




                                                  - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
I. Institutional Capacity Improved (measured    (PROJECTION PER PAD)
through increased quantity and quality
indicators).

 1(a) Work program expanded in line with        1 (a) measured by:                           1(a) measured by:
plans.
                                                (a1) SOE Financial audit: 170 opinions       (a1) SOE audit: 705 opinions
                                                (a2) Operations audit: 30% of acitivites     (a2)Operations audit: 2 opinions
                                                (a3) Central Govt: 1opinion                  (a3)Central Govt. audit: 1279 opinions
                                                (a4) Program audits added wtih 30% sample (a4)Program audit: 2 opinions
                                                size                                         (a5)Local Govt.audit: 693 opinions
                                                (a5) Local Govt. audit: 10 opinions

1 (b) Quality of audits improved measured by: 1 (b) measured by number of                    I(b) measured by number of qualified/trained
   - during implementation by net number of     qualified/trained staff                      staff:
qualified/trained staff, working on audits;     (b1) 5 Ph.D                                  (b1) 2 Ph.D
   - at project end through an independent      (b2) 140 Master degree                       (b2) 93 Master degree
review of a sample of BPK's audit reports.      (b3) 231 professional accountants            (b3)Qualified audit professionals: 2794 staff
                                                (b4)284 auditors trained on short-term basis can sign audit opinion.
                                                                                             (b4)362 auditors attended overseas short
                                                                                             courses; 1704 auditors attended in-country
                                                                                             training.

II. Demonstrated support for BPK's audits:      No projection available                      II. support for BPK audit measured by:
  (1) User satisfaction with audits increased;
  (2) Increase in implementation of BPK's                                                    (1) Increase in budget allocation reflects
recommendations.                                                                             increased demand for BPK audit: from
                                                                                             Rp74,000 million (1998) to Rp 234,086
                                                                                             million (2004).
                                                                                             (2) Number of findings reported to
                                                                                             Parliament: from 1603 (2000) to 2597 (2003).
III. Stretch targets: Legal and regulatory      No projection available                      III. Please refer to Table 4.2.1 for improved
environment improved through passage of                                                      legal/regulatory environment.
legislation to (a) expand legal authority to do
performance audits; (b) remove limitations on
financial audits.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                  1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                        Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Strategy plan approved by BPK.               No projection avaialble                      1. IDP approved in 2000.

   2. Client satisfactory ratings                                                            2. Ratings are not available.

   3. Staff trained accordance with                                                          3. A total of 2161 staff trained.
schedule.
                                                                                             4a. Audit manual/guidlines completed.
 4a. Audit Manual and guides completed.
                                                                                             4b. Audit MIS established.
 4b. System installed and operational.
                                                                                             5. Two pilot performance audits carried out.
 5. Pilot performance audits




1 End of project




                                                                   - 17 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                         Appraisal  Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                         Estimate    Estimate      Appraisal
                      Component                         US$ million  US$ million
A. BPK Strategic Planning                                  0.83           0.21          25.3
B. BPK Institutional Development                          20.14         16.98          84.31

Total Baseline Cost                                       20.97         17.19
                        Total Project Costs               20.97         17.19
                  Total Financing Required                20.97         17.19




                                                - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 19 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              11/11/1997                 2    Task Manager (1)                      S               S
                                              Consultant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              02/24/1997                 9    Task Manager (1); Sr.                 S               S
              04/10/1997                      Counsel (1); Costing Spec.
                                              (1); Eval. Officer (1);
                                              Accounting & Auditing Adv.
                                              (1); Sr. Disburs. Officer (1);
                                              Oper. Off. (2); Consultant
                                              (1)

 Supervision
              04/01/1998                 5    Task Manager(1); Auditor              S               S
                                              (1); Consultant (1); Database
                                              Coordinator (1); RSI (1)
              05/04/1999                 2    Mission Leader (1); Systems           U               S
                                              Adviser (1)
              08/02/1999                 1    Systems Adviser (1)                   U               S
              02/16/2000                 5    Principal Financial                   U               S
                                              Economist/TTL (1); Sr. Inst.
                                              Dev. Spe. (1); Fin. Mng. Spec.
                                              (1); Tech. Adviser (1); Director,
                                              WB Internal Audit Dep. (1)
              02/09/2001                 1    Fin. Management Specialist (1)        U               S
              12/04/2001                 1    Fin.Management Spec (1)               S               S
              6/28/2002                  1    Fin. Management Spec (1)              S               S
              11/27/2002                 1    Fin. Management Spec (1)              S               S
              03/13/2003                 1    Sr. Fin. Management Spec (1)          S               S
              06/20/2003                 1    Audit Specialist (1)                  S               S
              11/14/2003                 1    Audit Specialist (1)                  S               S
              04/03/2004                 1    Consultant (1)                        S               S

 ICR
              October 17, 2004           2     Sr. Fin. Mgt. Spec. (1)              S               U
                                               Audit Specialist (1)




                                               - 20 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               7                        20,447
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    9                        26,289
  Supervision                          78.74                       268,361
  ICR                                   8.00                        23,220
  Total                              102.74                        338,317




                                            - 21 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Project Appraisal Document, May 21, 1997

2. Institutional Development Plan (IDP), November 2000

3. Paper entitled: Reform of Public Sector Audit Arrangements in Indonesia

4. Mid-term review report, November 2001

5. Loan extension request

6. October 2004 Aide memoire

Annex 8. Partner Evaluation

Executive summary

On August 4, 1997, a loan has been provided by World Bank to Indonesian Government which
was peculiarly addressed for BPK. The project is aim "to assist BPK to better assess the
accountability of public finances through the enhancement of its performance and financial audit
capabilities".

After two partial cancellations, the final amount of the loan has been of 14,630,000 US $, and the
implementation period extended up to September 30, 2004. The implementation of the project,
and therefore the disbursement of the loan, have been limited during the first 4 years, and then
became significant and successful during the 3 last years. The percentage of loan disbursed was of
more or less 7 % during each of the 5 first years, and then 16 % in 2002, 27 % in 2003 and 19 %
in 2004 (9 months), for a final disbursement ratio over 96 %.

Audits implemented during project period show a significant increase in quantity, but a more
problematic progress in quality. Most of them restrain to compliance review with laws and
regulations ; financial statements audit develops only in some specific areas ; and performance
audit is just been born. None of them seem to comply fully with international standards.
However, during the same period, audit methodology has been updated in a new Manual,
practical guides have been issued, and auditors show a real motivation towards audit practice
improvement. BPK considers this component as hardly satisfactory.

Information technology has been brilliantly developed during the period and thanks to the loan.
Equipment are now available in every units, cabling and networking are achieved. The technical
BPK IT team is self-sufficient and manage the system without anymore overseas technical
assistance. The culture of BPK members deeply changed, auditors become familiar with
electronic communication and are eager for applications related to audit implementation. BPK
considers this component as highly satisfactory.

Massive training has been delivered during the period and thanks to the project. It has been
successful in enlarging widely the auditors understanding of accounting and audit issues, less


                                                  - 24 -

successful in providing in-depth skills in relation with diversified audits to be implemented. BPK
Training Center has been deeply transformed and up-dated, which ensure a permanent
development of relevant training in relation with BPK audit improvement. BPK considers this
component as satisfactory.

Human resources management is the main chess of the project. Constraints from legal rules
applying to civil servants and legal bodies are heavy and did not let room to some significant
improvement. The only significant progress relies on promotion of young talents, despite a
seniority promotion system, that BPK could partially implement during the last years of the
project. A new law applying to BPK, presently debated in Parliament, may give a break for a
much more dynamic human resources and career management. BPK considers this component as
non satisfactory.

Decentralization of BPK has been boosted in the meanwhile of project implantation by a
Constitutional amendment requesting the implementation of BPK decentralized offices in every
province (32 provinces). Despite persisting ambiguities on BPK decentralization, the project
benefited to regional offices extension and staffing. The crucial phase, including exact balance
between regional offices autonomy and national consistency, is to be faced in the very near
future. BPK considers this component as moderately satisfactory.

During the World Bank project period, BPK improved its status and legal capacity in to
directions : externally, by contributing to legal framework improvement ; internally, by creating
the Legal Counselor ­ Legal advisers system. A high proportion of laws governing BPK status
and activities have been revised and amended during project period. BPK teams were highly
involved in preparation and debates in Parliament committees, with unequal success. Internally,
BPK created a system of Legal Counselor in Headquarters duplicated by Legal Advisers in
regional offices in order to improve the legal appraisal of audit findings and to provide better
legal assessment to the prosecutors in charge of judicial followings. The system I now working
well and proves its significant added-value. BPK considers this component as satisfactory.

As a global conclusion, BPK considers that the project implementation played a crucial role in
BPK modernization in a difficult stage of its development. If disappointing in some areas, the
project implementation was very successful in others and created a non-reversible process of
modernization, paving way for substantial consequent progress in the near future. All together, it
justifies a very positive appraisal of the efficiency of World Bank loan, and a reasonable optimism
towards the capacity of the young Indonesian democracy to set up the appropriate external audit
institution essential to any balanced democracy.

                                               Section 1
                           The Loan and the Substance of the Project

For the agenda of improving the quality of the Audit Board of Indonesia (BPK), the World Bank
provided a loan to Government of Indonesia which was peculiarly addressed for BPK. Loan
Agreement No. Loan-4194 IND ( BPK Audit Modernization Project / PMA) signed on 4 August
1997 with loan value equal to USD 16,400,000. In the beginning the project was expected to end
at 30 June 2002. The project is aim "to assist BPK to better assess the accountability of public


                                                  - 25 -

finances through the enhancement of its performance and financial audit capabilities".

As specified in the loan agreement, the project included the two following parts for BPK :

a. a strategic plan, with an agenda for improving capabilities of BPK to develop and implement
its long term strategy and its enabling legal framework through the provision of specialized
advisory services ;

b. an Institutional Development Plan, consisting in :

    l upgrading the auditing capacity of BPK through: a) the provision of overseas and
        in-country training for (i) the staff of BPK responsible for carrying out performance and
        financial audits; and (ii) the staff of borrowers agencies responsible for implementation of
        findings of BPK audits; and (b) the development and implementation on an on-the-job
        training program for the technical staff of BPK, including the formulation of basic
        curricula and course materials ;

    l improving BPK's auditing system through : (a) the upgrading of BPK's Audit
        Management Information System (MIS); (b) the upgrading of existing and development
        of new working manuals and practices guides for the carrying out of performance and
        financial audits; and (c) the formulation and implementation of selected pilot performance
        and financial audit aimed at testing and improved quality of government auditing.

The execution of project initially experienced many resistances. Monetary crisis happened nearly
the end of 1997 was one of them. So that the development of some project components as
specified in loan agreement was delayed. The crisis also affected the cancellation some of the
loans in the amount of USD900,000 due to Rupiah depreciation. The cancellation was agreed on
26 August 1998.

During commencing period, project activities were mainly in the area of in-country and overseas
degree program as a part of human resources development. While other activities was halted
waiting to a clear direction as it should be stated within the strategic plan.

In May 2000, BPK and World Bank requested Cour de Comptes of France to conduct a strategic
review and to develop an institutional development plan (IDP) for year 2001 - 2003. The review
was assisted by ARK, NAO and Tribunal de Cuentas. Pursuant to the result of review of Cour de
Comptes, the Institutional Development Plan 2001 - 2003 has been enacted by the Board on
November 17, 2000.

As stated in the IDP, the project components changed into as follows:

a.     Legislation: Introduction of Legal Counselor and Advisers function. The objective is to
provide BPK with the highest level of legal expertise, both at headquarter and at regional
offices, which is applied before reports delivered. Designated among senior auditors by the
BPK Chairman on the sole basis of legal and audit expertise, they will monitor the compliance



                                                 - 26 -

of audit reports with existing legislation.

b.     Governance, Management And Decentralization

A major BPK issue was governance. Issues such as insufficient report production, bureaucratic
ways, staff structure and individual inadequacies relate to it. The new governance will have a
very standards components, aimed at : improving efficiency and effectiveness, meeting condition
of success in defining new BPK audit report production model, facilitating the application of
BPK strategy and operational objectives through improved governance at all levels.

Envisaging the changes in the constitution, streamlining, reorganization and strengthening
management of BPK and its relation with regional offices was required to be enhanced.

c.     Audit These components include activities:
       - Revision of guidelines of audit management handbook.
       - Increase of output of reports over time
       - Improvement of audit quality
       - Flattening of the organization structure
       - Recruitment, reassignment and development of auditors
       - Restructuring of BPK annual audit planning
       - Development of input and output indicators

d.     Human Resources

The re-engineering of the human resources management, policies and procedures will be
assisted by an executive human resources advisers, include:
       - Recruitment: updating selection criteria for recruitment and promotion and designing
pre-requisites training.
       - Job description and the professional career pattern will be structured in consultation
with civil service agency.
       - Performance Appraisal and feedback are pivotal parts of the process. Performance
evaluation criteria and procedures will be          determine and make known to the staff.
-      Human resources committee will be empowered to prepare the definition of human
resources strategy and policies.

e.     Information System
BPK information system will be an audit oriented that will support for improving
communication throughout BPK, provide a modernization movement from a non-computer
literate staff to a fully computerized environment.

The planned information system will cover four domains : basic applications (word processing,
spreadsheet, presentation and file sharing), audit oriented application (audit tracking system,
document referencing application, training application, audit specific software/ACL),
communication application (e-mail and internet browser) and support oriented application
(payroll, finance and personnel).



                                              - 27 -

The IS planning was implemented in four stages : Stage I : Basic requirements of audit
activities, Stage II: monitoring and support to audit activities, Stage III :Ease access to and
exchange information and Stage IV : extension of IS capabilities.

f.      Training, as part of human resources development, plays an important role. It supports
the implementation of every components of the IDP. Specifically, it focuses on the establishment
of the ADPKN, leadership training for BPK managers and degree program.

g.      Implementation Monitoring. An extensive monitoring carried out by consultants took
place to ascertain the IDP implementation throughout the IDP period.

Those components are the elaboration of institutional development components as specified in
loan agreement. There were some developments like in decentralization component which
emphasize head office streamlining. However, in general, the change of component in IDP
2001-2003 remained in line with loan agreement.

The enactment of IDP affects to the closing date of the project from 30 June 2002 to 31
December 2003.

In the mid 2003, in order to implement more completely the project, BPK proposed the extension
of closing date into 30 September 2004. Included within the proposal were the re-allocation of
each category and operational cost as the new category. For the extension period, with the
support of the World Bank and the agreement of Indonesian Government, the project activities
focused on improving the quality of the training center of BPK.

Consequently, in the year 2004, the project implementation applied to :
        a. improving the Training Center professionalism through development of training
modules, improvement of the professionalism of training center
            staff and of the quality of instructors ;
        b. modernizing the Training Center through development of e-library and e-learning, as
well as improvement of the quality of class rooms ;
        c. overseas and in-country training.

As 2004 is the closing year of the project, BPK contributed to final evaluation by implementation
of :
        - a peer review, conducted by the New Zealand General Audit Office ;
        - a project impact assessment;
        - a project financial statement audit.

These reviews and evaluations contributed to the present final report.
                                               Section 2

                                 Financial execution of the project




                                                 - 28 -

To support the activities promoted by the project, the initial World Bank loan accepted in year
1997 was categorized as follows :

                           Category                                   Value ( USD)
                            Number                                    Description
   1   Consultants' services                                                    940,000
   2    a.     Training In-Country                                            1,925,000
        b.     Training Overseas                                             12,360,000
   3    Goods                                                                  1,175,000
        Amount                                                                16,400,000

In year 1998, due to financial crisis and Rupiah depreciation, the loan was decreased by US$
900,000, down to a global amount of US$ 15,500,000.

Later on, due to enactment of IDP and postponement of closing date of the project from 30 June
2002 to 31 December 2003, the allocation to the each category changed into as follows:

                          Category                                    Value ( USD)
                           Number                                       Description
 1 Consultants' services
                                                               1,730,000
2    a. Training In-Country                                                      2,720,000
     b. Training Overseas                                                        7,650,000
3    Goods                                                                       3,400,000
 Minus cancellation, 26 August 1998                                           -   900,000
Amount                                                                           15,500,000

In the mid 2003, BPK proposed the extension of closing date into 30 September 2004, a new
cancellation equal to US$ 870,000 and the re-allocation of remaining resources according to the
following final budget :

                            Category                                 Value ( USD)
           Number                          Description

    1 Consultants' services
                                                               2,500,000
    2    a.    Training In-Country                                             1,675,000
         b.    Training Overseas                                               7,620,000
    3 Goods
                                                               2,470,000
    4   Operating Cost
                                                               365,000
     Minus cancellation, 26 August 1998                                        - 900,000



                                               - 29 -

     Minus cancellation, 19 August 2003                                           - 870,000
    Final amount                                                                  14,630,000

What appears clearly is the rather low start of implementation of the project up to IDP design and
adoption in November 2000, plus one year (2001) to organize practically its implementation.
During this first period, the annual disbursement was always more or less 7 % of the total budget.

Then the project correctly determined and channeled could be massively implemented, with
percentages rising to 16 % in 2002, 27 % in 2003 and 19 % in the first 9 months of 2004
(equivalent to 25 % for 12 months).

Apart from consultants' costs, the main expenses, according to permanent priorities of the
project, have been training (65 % of the total) and Information Technology equipments (17.5%).

The disbursements do not correspond exactly to the implementation of IDP components : some
of them, like legislation component, had great development during the period of budget
implementation without generating specific expenditures. But the massive disbursement
corresponding to training and IT is still significant in expressing the priorities attached to BPK-RI
modernization.

                                              Section 3

                      Evolution of audits implemented during the period

According to loan agreement, the objective of BPK RI Audit modernization project has been to
improve audit practice within the institution. Before the enactment of Institutional Development
Plan of BPK RI 2001-2003, the project appraisal stated that the project would support the effort
to remove existing audit scope limitation and other regulatory constraints, to carry out full
fledged financial and performance audits, and to institutionalize international best practices.
These project's objectives were reasoned by such existing condition at the time in which BPK
RI's audit was constrained by several regulations, conducted without a clear manual or guidance
related to the type of financial audit or performance audit, and lack of auditors' competences as
compared to theirs in international environment.

The IDP made such strategic milestones to modernize the audit areas as:
       - improving audit planning and quality control,
       - improving audit procedures, and
       - introducing legal advisors and counselor.

By these milestones, BPK RI is expected to achieve such performance objectives as:
       - increasing audit quantity, by reducing man-days of audit and increasing audit objects as
the impact of audit constrain elimination,

These performance objectives would be achieved by implementing such activities as:
       - revising existing auditing standards,



                                                 - 30 -

        - revising audit management guide line (PMP),
        - developing operational guidelines of financial audit and performance audit,
        - developing some technical guideline of specific audit,
        - assigning senior auditors for job attachment in GAO or Audit New Zealand (detail of
this activity is explained in the Training section),
        - empowering legal aspects (detail of this activity is explained in the Legislation section),
        - procuring document copiers to speed audit reporting,
        - conducting training and developing IT related audit procedures,
        - conducting a peer review to BPK RI's audit practice in the end of the project.

As of September 2004, the achievement of the activities covers the following:
        1.       Revision of the Government Auditing Standard (Standard Audit
Pemerintahan/SAP) 2004, which the draft is finalized in September 2004. This is an update of
SAP 1995, based on GAGAS 2003 of GAO, to cover some new auditing standards.
        2.       Enactment of the Audit Management Guideline 2002 (PMP 2002) in August 2002.
This is an update of PMP 1995, based on an international best practices proposed by the
Netherlands Court of Audit. An update is being done on the PMP 2002.
        3.       A Financial Audit Guideline, which had been prepared since 2003 by Ernst and
Young and finalized in 2004. This new guideline is to set best practices for financial audit.
        4.       A Performance Audit Guideline, which had been prepared since 2003 by
Accounting Center of State School of Accounting and finalized in 2004. This new guideline is to
set best practices for performance audit.
        5.       A Technical Guideline to Asses Internal Control and a Technical Guideline for
Audit Sampling, which had been prepared since 2003 by KPMG and finalized in 2004.
        6.       A Technical Guideline to Set Materiality Threshold and a Technical Guideline to
Analyze Risk, which had been prepared since 2003 by Ernst and Young and finalized in 2004.
        7.       A Technical Guideline of Computer Assisted Audit, which had been prepared since
2003 by Auditindo Arin Prima and finalized in 2004. This new guideline is to set best practices
for computer assisted audit.
        8.       A Technical Guideline to Audit the Financial Report of Regional Government,
which had been prepared since 2003 by Institute Ilmu Pemerintahan and enacted in 2004. This
new guideline is to set best practices for auditing the Regional Government Financial Statement.
        9.       A Technical Guideline to Audit the Financial Report of Regional Government
State Owned Enterprise, which had been prepared since 2003 by Institute Ilmu Pemerintahan and
enacted in 2004. This new guideline is to set best practices for auditing the Regional Government
State Owned Enterprise Financial Statement.
        10.      Procurement of eighteen document copiers to be distributed to all working unit of
BPK RI, including the regional offices. This activity was done in 2003.
        11.      A Peer Review by the Office of Controller and Auditor General of New Zealand.
This activity was done in July 2004 and a separate report is submitted to BPK RI and attached to
this document, and
        12.      Achievement of job attachment and legal empowerment. Explanation of these
activities is presented separately in their related section.

Apart from the above development of audit methodology related activities, the project also



                                                  - 31 -

executed development of the audit brain ware, software and hardware. This development includes
such activities as:
        1. training on auditing and accounting, covering the basic level until specialized level (this
is further detailed in Training section),
        2. training on auditing for IT environment (this is also detailed in Training section),
        3. developing audit application. In 2002, a file sharing method was introduced and used
within the network of BPK RI to enable sharing audit files among BPK RI auditor/management.
Further, in 2003 a document referencing database was created to store any legal references
related to BPK RI audit. And, in this 2004 an audit tracking application was made to
computerized the planning, reporting, and follow up-ing BPK RI's audit.
        4. procuring and installing ACL as an IT audit tool.

These achievements have been effectively used by the auditors of BPK RI, except for the audit
tracking system, which just finished in the mid of September. Those activities are aimed to
improve audit quantity and quality. Such a performance indicator was developed to asses the
impact the activities.

Qualitatively, it can be inferred briefly that improvement of audit quality has been moderate :
BPK RI audit practice improves very progressively. This may be caused by the fact that the new
audit manual (PMP) of BPK was enacted in August 2002, and consequently the introduction and
initiation of the new audit methodology started only in 2003. Moreover, new laws and
regulations reducing limitation on BPK RI's work have been voted in 2003 and 2004, becoming
effective too recently to produce already significant effects.

Concerning audit quantity, its extension does not represent an improvement in man/days audit,
but is caused by an increase of the number of entities under control as a consequence of
enactment of the new State Finance Law.

However, as a global result, the output from audit development is on track. The impact study
implemented in September 2004 mentions that "Revised policies and audit procedures were
introduced, bringing the audit approach and techniques more in line with international standards.
The approach in conducting an audit now recognises that all aspects of planning, execution and
reporting are performed in logical sequence in a more unified manner. There is thus better
utilisation of staff time and elimination of unproductive work. The scope of work performed is
now more comprehensive and a greater number of audit assignments are undertaken."

Consequently and as a global evaluation, BPK RI considers this component of the project as
hardly successful.

To achieve the foreseen goals, BPK RI in the near future still shall focus on followings lists to
achieve its best audit practice ; they will be the opportunity to further modernize BPK RI :
        - ensure that the final guidelines will be enacted,
        - do intensive training based on the new guidelines,
        - set a program to change management and auditor paradigm based on the new
governmental auditing standard and the new guidelines, and



                                                 - 32 -

        - do piloting on audit, based on the new governmental auditing standard and the new
guidelines.

                                               Section 4

                  Information technology (IT) implemented during the period

IT was an important component of the project. The expectations were a much improved
communication, a new attitude of auditors in front of available information, a capacity to share
out and consolidate information gathered by members of a team involved in the same audit.
Access to data bases was considered by a basic condition in particular to enlarge accounts
substance understanding and legal qualifications of findings. Computers use is also a culture for
auditors moving in a financial computerized environment, which was completely lacking in BPK
at the beginning of the project.

The impacts of the world bank project for information systems (IS) development in BPK are as
follows :
        1.      Office Automation. The increase number of computers accessible to auditors
significantly improves auditor's access to office automation tools (e.g., Word, Excel,
Powerpoint). This improved access to office automation tools allows auditors to document many
of their work (e.g., auditees profiles, data analysis, audit findings, field work evaluation report
and audit reports, etc) electronically, which in turn improves audit environment as more and more
documents needed for audit become available electronically (compared to having piles of papers
to work with).
        2.      Communication & Information Access. The implementation of LAN (within
each office) and WAN (interconnecting offices), which make possible the interconnection
between auditor's computers in one office with those in different offices, improves
communication and information access to the auditors. Information exchange between auditors
takes place mostly in the form of e-mail. Auditors can also obtain information available in BPK
via the BPK Intranet site (http://siska) or those available outside of BPK using Internet access.
The process of decision making during the audit filed work is getting efficient and effective.
        3.      Audit Reporting. As more computers become available to auditors, audit reports
become readily available electronically. Each audit team starts to store their audit report on their
computer after producing them with the office automation tools. Using file sharing mechanism,
these audit reports can then be accessed by those who need them and are authorized to access
them. This mechanism significantly shorten the time needed to retrieve audit reports and to
review it.
        4.      Computer Literacy. The improvement of IT infrastructure that is evident to BPK
staff, especially the auditors, also increases the level of staff' computer literacy. Along with their
improved understanding of IT, their demands for IT support (in the form of tools, specific
applications) also increases. A number of units has requested PDE to develop specific
applications for them (e.g., BLBI, WasKN, Wasgiatrik, HRM EIS, Auditee Profile Database
System etc ).
        5.      Use of CAAT. Some auditors start to use CAAT software packages (e.g., Excel,
ACL) in their audit activities. To anticipate the growing number of auditors using such tools, the
project has procured additional ACL licenses (100) and has conducted training on using the tool


                                                 - 33 -

for ±700 auditors starting from basic ACL training to advanced ACL training.
        6.     IS Organization. The IS organization has been restructured and enhanced to
anticipate user's growing demand of IS services. The PDE (Electronic Data Processing Division)
now has a Help Desk function that is responsible in helping users to solve their IT-related
problems. The capability of the unit has been improved by both adding new recruits and training
programs to improve the staff' skill to suit the new IT infrastructure environment. Also, the
improvement for skills and knowledge of the IT departments' staff has been accelerated with the
assistances from local or foreign IT consultant. Finally, a number of IT Policies and Procedures
have been developed to provide direction and guidelines to the management of BPK on managing
IT and to BPK staff on making use of IT resources.
        7.     Audit Support. A number of applications that are not directly related to audit
activities has been developed and implemented. These applications: Personnel and Training
applications will provide support to the overall audit management. Personnel application will help
managing personnel information of individual auditors, while Training application will help
managing auditor's training program.

The indicators for each impact of IT component are as follow:

        Indicator                 1997                   2004            Impact Level
                           (beforeWorld Bank      (after World Bank
                              project starts)     project completion)
Office Automation:                                                            High
1.      # of computers            N/A               1 for 4 auditors
Communication &                                                               High
Information Access:
1.      # of Regional/      2 (in Head Office              7
Remote Offices with       and Yogya Regional
LAN                              Office)

2.      # of Regional/              0                      7
Remote Offices
connected to Head
Office via WAN
Audit Reporting:                                                            Medium
1.      # of audit reports
available electronically
                                  N/A                ± 500 files 3)
Computer Literacy:                                                          Medium
1.      # of new
applications requested
by auditors
                                  N/A                     ± 10
Use of CAAT:                                                                  Low
1.      # of ACL licenses     ± 20 licenses           100 licenses




                                                - 34 -

2.      # of auditors          ± 100 staff            ± 700 staff
attended CAAT training
IS Organization:                                                               High
1.      New function
within PDE                        N/A                 Help Desk


2.      # of PDE staff          ± 4 staff             ± 40 staff
attended IT training

3.      # of Policies,
Standards, Procedures             N/A                     3
Audit Support:                                                               Medium
1.      # of application     4 applications         ± 10 application
to support auditors
activities

In global terms, the progress is spectacular : the total number of desk computers + laptops rises
from 0 to 1,319 at the end of the project. More important, the allocation of equipments tables
show that the equipments have been distributed, from the beginning, in every departments and
units of BPK, administrative units as well as audit units, so that the use of electronic data has
never been a gadget for a minority but a way of work and communication for the whole
institution.

The approach selected by the Chairman was not to provide computers to auditors just as
individual tool, but to make it a factor of collective work. In BPK, audits are implemented by
teams grouping some 4 to 6 auditors (more for specific large audits). The computers have not
been allocated to individuals, but to teams, with a connection master-plan designed to promote
team coordination. Consequently, the ration computer/auditors is not the most significant; the
ratio IT equipment/audit teams is the most relevant, and it becomes excellent. It should be
noticed that in a large country as Indonesia , the connections between headquarters and regional
offices (and inside regional offices) are as important as difficult, and that the computerization of
BPK activity allowed a decisive improvement in this area.

 As a conclusion, IT development in BPK have been one of the major effect of World Bank
project. The impact study implemented in September2004 confirms it as follows :
"Significant strides have been made in developing and improving management information
systems. This has resulted in significant improvements to the communication and information
flows within BPK and to a better understanding of information technology developments. High
staff morale and motivation is evident due to the initiatives taken to modernize BPK. "The
increase in number of computers accessible to auditors has significantly improved auditor's
access to office automation tools. This improved access to office automation tools allows
auditors to document many aspects of their work. The implementation of Local Area Networks
and Wide Area Networks, which make possible the interconnection between auditor's computers
in one office with those in different offices, has improved communication and information access



                                                - 35 -

to the auditors. The improvement to IT infrastructure, that is evident to BPK staff especially the
auditors, also increases the level of staff' computer literacy. A number of applications that are not
directly related to audit activities has been developed and implemented."

What makes the success of IT development strong and long lasting is that BPK relied a lot on
international assistance in the beginning, but was progressively organized to become
sel-sufficient, and is at the end of the project in a position to operate its IT infrastructure and
network alone, with the only support of local consultants on demand if necessary. This is a very
good case of successful transfer of technology.

BPK considers this component of the project as highly successful, even if it is all relative.

Concerning future expectation, the IS development in BPK, as a result of World Bank project, is
however in its initial phase of implementation.The important matters in this stage are the change
management and adequate support to maintain what have been set up for BPK IS development.
The first factor can be achieved through clear and concise regulation of IS development in BPK,
commitment of top management in BPK and adequate training addressing the matters for users
and IT people. The second factor relates mostly with the availability of operational funding for
maintaining the IT infrastructure in BPK. Technology changes and business competition in the
globalization era will soon impact the implementation of IT in BPK.

                                               Section 5

                               Training delivered during the period

Together with IT implementation, training was by far the most important target of the project
financed by the World Bank loan.

Logically, training has been included in the the main activity of the Institutional Development
Plan enacted in November 2000, which objective is to develop core capacities in government
auditing with the special emphasize on performance and financial audits by :
        - supporting overseas and in-country degree program and short term program,
        - supporting BPK Training Center to develop core curriculum and training materials for
maintaining and upgrading skills of all BPK staff.

During 1997-2000, the training program mainly focused on sending BPK employees to pursue
degree programs (master, PhD, and bachelor degree) both in-country and overseas. As regard to
the short course program, prior to the effectiveness of the IDP, the type training was classified as
Basic Accounting and Auditing Courses, and Sector and Enterprise Course. It was only a limited
number of training that had been delivered, until came out the policy from BPK management to
halt all of the PMA activities until the backbone of BPK Strategic Planning, which is later named
Institutional Development Plan (IDP), has been established.

During the development of the IDP, all of the training programs, which are in-country as well as
overseas training programs, were postponed for a year in 2000. At that moment, the training
activity mainly focused on monitoring of ongoing in country and overseas degree program.


                                                - 36 -

In the IDP 2001-2003, training program is directed to focus on training at four tiers which are for
Potential Leaders, Managers, Auditors, and Technical Staff. The nature and venue of the training
given to these four tiers are abroad (extensive and specific training); in-country (extensive and
specific training), and also in-house training. Participants of abroad trainings are only those who
are classified as Potential Leaders and Auditors. The content of training programs stated in the
IDP is training for Change Management Program, Multimedia Training, Specific Training,
Advance Degree Education Abroad, Leadership Training, and the Re-establishment of Akademi
Dinas Pemeriksa Keuangan Negara (ADPKN).

5.1.   In-Country Training

Activities that taken place inside the country (in-country training) are degree program (masters
and bachelors), as well as short term training program.
In country degree program was started in 1997 and so was the short term training program.

a.     In-country degree program

For Bachelor degree, the project management team (PMA) has delivered three batches followed
by total of 120 participants, all majoring in accounting. For Master degree, PMA has delivered
four batches followed by total of 151 participants. The major was chosen by BPK management
through the Training Committee with various major such as accounting, government auditing,
public administration, and human resource development. These major were chosen because the
training committee deemed that there were the most relevant fields of study with the main
responsibility of BPK.

In the IDP, there is another in country degree program to be delivered namely the
re-establishment of Akademi Dinas Pemeriksa Keuangan Negara (ADPKN). The re-establishment
of ADPKN is to answer the need for professional auditors. The methodology of the state
financial audit should be supported by some specific knowledge such as Government Accounting
System, Local Government Accounting System, State Revenue and Expenditure Budget Report,
Basic Local Revenue, Corporate Accountability. This knowledge is not taught in public
universities in Indonesia and overseas. To accommodate this condition, it is deemed necessary to
establish in-service higher education such as ADPKN.
The objectives of ADPKN are to develop personnel through education in the field of state
financial audit as well as to develop cooperation with other educational institution in country and
overseas.

In the implementation however, this idea could not be realized because of the regulation from the
Ministry of Education concerning the establishment of a higher education institution. Such
regulation specifically prohibits the establishment of any higher education institution by the
technical departments/ministries/government institutions other than universities.

b.     In-country short course.




                                                - 37 -

Before the enactment of IDP 2001-2003, in-country short courses were classified as Basic
Accounting & Auditing Courses, Sector & Enterprise Courses, and Courses for Client Agencies.
In the early year of the project, PMA in association with two consultants (Ernst & Young, and
Osana International Inc.) delivered 7 Sector and Enterprise Courses.
After the enactment of IDP 2001-2003, the content of in-country short course were changed to:
        - Change Management Program
     Specific Modules designed for the specific training program dealing with the change
management has been established and delivered in-house.
        - Multimedia Training
   With the objective of counteracting the abstractness from the lecture, the multimedia training
was considered as other important source of training. This is then developed further by
establishing the facility for e-library and e-learning as will be elaborated further in section for the
Training Center Enhancement.
        - Specific Training
     Specific Training encompassed professional audit trainings, advance trainings for IT
Professionals, and short courses for managerial levels.

5.2      Overseas Training

Overseas training can be divided into degree program, short course, comparative study, and job
attachment.

a.      Overseas degree program
Initially as stated in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD), PMA was to send 5 participants for
PhD program, and 55 master programs. In the realization, PMA has sent 3 participants to attend
doctoral program in UK and in USA, and 88 participants to attend master degree program in UK,
USA, Australia, and France. The increasing number of master degree participants was due to the
cost allocation to each program at various destination universities. It was originally assumed that
all of the participants of overseas degree program would be sent to the USA.
Regarding this specific program, the IDP stated that the extensive abroad training program
should be integrated with the BPK strategic plan, meaning that every returnee has to immediately
implement what he/she has learned abroad to BPK activities.

b.      Overseas short courses

Before the IDP, all of the activities other than degree program were categorized as short course.
At that time, PMA has sent 71 participants to attend short courses in various countries such as
USA, French, Netherlands, Malaysia, and New Zealand. The subjects of courses were:
        - performance audit
        - EDP audit
        - financial audit
        - INTOSAI/ASOSAI seminars

After the IDP, such programs were further broken down not only into Short Course, but also
into Comparative Study and Job Attachment. Leadership Training is one aspect that was



                                                 - 38 -

introduced by the IDP, which objective is to address insufficient number of leaders in BPK. The
parameters were established as follows:
        - ten participants a year,
        - one month of training in nearby (Singapore and Hong Kong),
        - six weeks of intensive, dedicated training, on a European Campus,
        - for selected trainees, four week of internships in audit institutions overseas, with
monitoring from campus training staff .

 In the realization, PMA could not deliver this leadership training with the precise characteristics
as specified by its parameters. The difficulty in delivering programs with such details parameters
is to find the institution in the destination country that can provide such program that match with
the detailed parameters.

It should be noticed that, out of 545 members of BPK who benefited of some training abroad
during the World Bank project implementation (362 financed by the World Bank project and 183
thanks to BPK Indonesian Government budget), less than 20 resigned from BPK in following
years (up to now). This is a very encouraging ratio, unexpected at this level, which pleads in
favor of this way to introduce renewed blood in BPK.

5.3     Training Center Enhancement

Training Center Enhancement period begins after the conclusion of the IDP 2001-2003. The
reason behind this policy is because BPK's Education and Training Centre needs to ensure that
the skills, knowledge, abilities, and performance BPK workforce meet the current and future
organizational and individual needs through developing, implementing, and evaluating activities
and programs addressing employee training and development, change and performance
management, and the unique needs of particular employee groups. On the other hand, as a
government institution, given the limited budget, BPK has to seek effective educational policies
that enhance the social and economic prospects of individuals, contribute to economic
productivity, provide incentives to promote the efficiency of the administration of schooling and
help mobilize additional resources to meet increasing demands for education and training in order
to reinforce the public accountability of BPK education and training programs.

With the financial assistance from the World Bank loan, PMA has four main activities concerning
training centre enhancement as follows :

a.      Module Development

The effectiveness of training is not only influenced by the instructors but also the media/modules.
These training modules are expected to keep the sustainability of having international best
practice training in such a way that other instructors can use the same module in a same
methodological way without impairing the effectiveness of the said training. For this reason, BPK
planned and successfully executed a comprehensive program of training modules development
and course development and instructional techniques workshop.




                                                 - 39 -

The module development has main objectives namely: increasing the benefits of the training
activities due to the internationally best practice developed modules, enhancing the applicability
of the training modules in the work environment, and enriching training programs of the Training
Center.

The modules that have been developed are:
        - module of financial audit ;
        - module of performance audit ;
        - module of system information audit ;
        - module of investigative audit ;
        - module of audit of privatization.

b. Classroom enhancement

To maximize the use of technology and for economic reason by reducing the cost of traveling,
the implementation of seminar system that enables distance learning is the paramount important in
the classroom enhancement program. To design and implement this tele-conference or
tele-seminar system, PMA appointed local consultant that has similar experience. The main
responsibilities of consultant are as follows:
        - optimize the usefulness of existing information technology ;
        - develop classrooms in BPK Training Centre with the international standard classroom
facility such as multimedia, audio video, internet connection, etc.

c. E-Library

The development of the library system was intended to support BPK's staff to do their job by
giving them an easy access to find references and other materials needed. It was also intended to
increase their knowledge by accessing the library content. Currently, these employees have to
come individually to the library in BPK Headquarter to have access on books, and then, they will
looking for books they need by using a catalogue manually. These employees will have difficulty
if they have limited time to find some information they need. In that case, the automation of
library system will create an easy access to the database and catalogue, so that the information
can be obtained faster.

The objective of e-library development is to preserve library database and information catalogue,
which can be accessed by all BPK employees, either in BPK Headquarter (Jakarta) or in regional
offices (Medan, Palembang, Yogyakarta, Banjarmasin, Denpasar dan Ujungpandang).

d. E-Learning

It is always problematic to find the right time to deliver training for the right designated auditors.
The main problem is the state budgeting process, which is always late, and on the other hand, the
training and audit activities usually begin after the state budget can be disbursed. When the
training is ready to be delivered, usually there is no auditor around to participate in such training.
As such, the mutually convenience time for both Auditama and Training Center to deliver training



                                                - 40 -

in a year is usually very limited. This condition is worsened by the limited facility of the Training
Center.

To solve these problems is to provide an opportunity for auditors and non-auditors to learn new
skills and knowledge individually and at their own-pace. BPK through the Audit Modernization
Project has come to a decision to provide training programs that can be accessed by all
employees at any time and any place. The development of e-learning systems is considered the
best solution to answer these challenges. Hence, BPK developed two e-learning systems, which is
:

       1. A web-based e-learning system, developed in order to promote a web-based e-learning
system which enables BPK's staff to continuously enhance their skills and knowledge in a
cost-effective manner regardless their time and place constrains.

       2. An off-line e-learning system. The limitation of Wide Area Network (WAN) bandwidth
encourages BPK to develop off-line e-learning system as a compliment to a web-based e-learning
systems solution. This development is being done by increasing the accessibility of training
programs for BPK's employees and the flexibility of their learning process, especially for those
who have no access to internet but have access to use a stand alone computer; and enhancing the
capability of instructors in the design, development, and delivery of course materials in an
electronic format (CD-ROM).

As a general conclusion, BPK considers the implementation of the training component of the
World Bank project as satisfactory. The training delivered in the period was not enough in-depth
to generate renewed ability to implement in a completely successful way some new categories of
audits like performance audits, but its all relative, and the huge training effort which concerned
several thousands of BPK members contributed strongly to change their culture and motivation,
paving way to more acute progress in the near future.

The impact study implemented in September 2004 concludes similarly :
"The extensive training program that was conducted as part of the IDP has resulted in a
significant increase in the quality and mix of qualifications. (...) The training component was
successfully completed and has had a high impact in that there are now more staff with a better
mix of qualifications working for BPK. The knowledge gained by undertaking these degrees has
provided the participants with a better understanding of the theoretical aspects of auditing and
financial management. Whilst this has had a high impact on the skills base of BPK, the impact on
the practical, on the job aspects of auditing is lesser."
                                               Section 6

                                 Human Resources Management

The capability of BPK Human Resourses is a major component in strategic planning since BPK
long-term sustainability depends on its human resources quality. This internal institutional factors
mentioned in Project Appraisal include structure, staffing, and skills mix, incentive and




                                                 - 41 -

compensation scheme, and budgetary requirements.

During 1997-2000 there was no clear strategy, direction, and activity for human resources
management component.

According to IDP enacted in November 2000, the main activities under this component included :
(i) appointing an Executive Human Resources Advisor (EHRA) and a career manager, (ii)
developing a promotion review policy and a performance appraisal policy, (iii) establishing an
Internal Communication function, (iv) conducting an annual staff survey, and (v) developing a
library program.

Some of expected activities have been implemented as follows.

The Internal Communication function has implemented in November 2001 by the appointment of
an Internal Communication Officer (ICO), in charge of providing information to the BPK internal
publications. There have been little effect of this attempt, which has become a sleeping activity
after some months.

BPK selected two EHRA candidates in 2000 and sent one of them to conduct a comparative
study in some European countries in 2001. The appointment was then cancelled due to the fact
that the BPK, as public service, is governed by the civil service law, and the constraints from
legal regulations did not leave room for BPK to introduce the changes mentioned by the IDP.

Annual staff surveys have been conducted twice in 2002 and 2003. The results of the survey
indicates list of improvement needed to arrive at favorable condition in human resources
management which could not be implemented due to the specified reasons.

Library program is intended to improve knowledge of BPK staff. At the beginning the program
mainly focused on procurement of books. During 2004 the program was enriched with library
system development which includes library application, e-learning, e-books, and e-journals as
stated in section 4.

In general the human resources management component implementation is at the moment
unsatisfactory. The impact study implemented in September 2004 resumed quite well the
situation in its conclusion : "There has been very little impact from this component. The initial
recommendations of the international consultants engaged in the preparation of the IDP had not
adequately considered the legal constraints that were in force in Indonesia. BPK employees are
part of the civil service and their terms and conditions are governed by civil service statutes. BPK
realized that it will be not possible to proceed with the plans as laid out in the IDP as it did not
have the autonomy to develop and enforce its own policies that would be in conflict with civil
service policies. Activities under this component therefore have been shelved."

World Bank Aide Memoir March 2003 stated also that Human Resources Management
component has been the most difficult to implement given the rigidity of Indonesia's civil service
law.



                                                - 42 -

Some hope comes from reform proposed in the framework of a new law concerning BPK status
and organization, presently examined by the Parliament. According to this project, the reform of
BPK should be supported in line with the INTOSAI Auditing Standards on the independence and
autonomy of the audit function. Relevant authorities for the BPK should be granted special status
as an independent, expert, professional government authority with greater control over its own
terms and conditions for staffing arrangements.

Considering foreseen BPK law, human resources management requires extensive reform in
strategy, policy, and procedure which include recruitment, job description, the professional career
pattern, performance appraisal, performance evaluation criteria and procedures, and
empowerment of human resources committee.

During implementation of World Bank project, some localized progresses have been made.
Recruitment has been focused on BPK main needs without external considerations. Young skilled
auditors have been promoted to important functions more quickly than it had been done in the
former seniority-based system, but within legal limits. The impact study underlines that
"Younger, qualified staffs have been assigned increased responsibility for managing audits, and
several initiatives have been undertaken to bring the auditing approach more in line with
international auditing standards."

But this key factor of BPK modernization and capacity to reach international standards is still far
below indispensable requirements. At least, if the implementation of this World Bank component
project can be considered as unsatisfactory, it has been very useful to prepare next developments,
in legal status updating as well as in internal organization. A threshold can now be crossed in the
framework of a future new IDP.

                                             Section 7

                         Decentralization Extended During the Period

Indonesia has embarked on the process of fiscal and administrative decentralization, and the
ultimate goals for the transition to democracy and a market economy stand in sharp contrast to
the country's centralist and authoritarian past.

On January 1, 2001, Law 22/99 on Regional Governance and Law 25/99 on the Fiscal Balance
between the Central and Regional Governments became effective. Under Law 22/99, Indonesia's
district governments now function autonomously; except for defense and security, foreign policy,
monetary and fiscal policies, judicial affairs, and religious affairs. Law 25/99 provides the
framework concerning the manner the regional governments are to fund their newly devolved
responsibilities.   Provinces and district governments now determine their own priorities,
accountable to elected regional parliaments. The main sources of funds are local taxes, charges
and fees, a share of revenues from land/property taxes, a share of revenues from natural resources
and a system of general (DAU) and special (DAK) grants from national tax revenues.

On November 9, 2001, Indonesia enacted the Third Amendment to its 1945 Constitution. A


                                                - 43 -

clause of this amendment expands BPK's mandate to:
    - include, as its client, not only the Parliament but also 474 Regional Parliaments, Dewan
Perwakilan Rakyat Daerah (DPRD) ;
    - establish a presence in each of Indonesia's 32 provinces.

As one of the means to fulfill Article 23, Clause 4 of the Constitution, on April 5 2003, Indonesia
enacted Law 17/03 concerning "State Finances."          Law 17/03 broadly covers financial and
monetary issues, and is the foundation of BPK's expanded legal authority to audit Statements of
Accountability of the three levels of government. According to these legal regulations, BPK is
responsible for auditing:
    - People's Consultative Assembly;
    - Parliament and Regional Parliaments;
    - Supreme Court;
    - 69 Government Agencies;
    - 162 State-owned Enterprises (BUMN);
    - BPK (through its Inspectorate General);
    - Batam Industrial Authority;
    - Sabang Industrial Authority;
    - 442 District Governments and 32 Provincial Governments; and
    - approximately 878 regional-owned enterprises (BUMD).

For BPK, the move from a centralized authoritarian government to a decentralized democracy
has posed a number of challenges. BPK needs to change its Regional Office operation to
accommodate the changes in the constitution.

IDP envisaged those changes by predicting two major challenges. One of them is to adjust its
operations to the principles of decentralizing government powers and finance in Indonesia.

A first consultancy for decentralization component has been implemented in year 2001 by Mr.
Careras (from spanish Tribunal de Cuentas) and Ms. Caroline Powel (consultant to the National
Audit Office of UK) in year 2001, followed by Claude Cornuau consultant's proposals.

BPK decentralization is an important challenge for Indonesian democracy. In the one hand, it
must contribute to regional autonomy, a political must in such a large and diversified country as
Indonesia. On the other hand, it must carefully protect the rule of law and its unified
jurisprudence, in order to keep all Indonesian citizens equal in front of law, and conscious to
belong to the same country. The balance requests subtile arbitrations.

There are still ambiguities and pending issues in the decentralization process of BPK. It is not
clear if BPK should have separate offices in 32 locations (the 32 provinces), or could put
together several province-teams in a common location, in order to provide them with common
higher quality supports (for Legal evaluation, computers maintenance, training, and so on). More
important, the authority of Headquarters on regional offices heads must be fine-tuned, being
considered that according to law regional offices report directly to local Parliaments.




                                               - 44 -

Arbitrations on above issues are not under BPK control, but wait for political decisions. In the
time-being and for IDP implementation, BPK focused during World Bank project on developing
its physical decentralized infrastructure (buildings, IT connections), and in seconding an increased
number of auditors from Headquarters to regional offices, motivated and skilled. Four regional
offices have been opened during the project period, in Palembang, Banjarmasin, Denpasar, and
Papua.

The impact study concludes that "This component has had a high impact on the success of this
project.

Due to legal and constitutional controversies and delays, BPK does not consider this component
as fully successful but only as moderately satisfactory. However, it is clear that very significant
progress have been made, and that BPK is ready to take advantage of any new project to develop
its decentralization in accordance with legal developments to be decided by the newly elected
national authorities.

                                              Section 8
                            Legislation developed during the period

During the World Bank project period, BPK improved its status and legal capacity in to
directions :
       - externally, by contributing to legal framework improvement ;
       - internally, by creating the Legal Counselor ­ Legal advisers system.

Contribution to improvement of BPK legal status and environment.

BPK is subject to a framework of general regulations which channel and limit its competencies
and activities :
       - the law of corporation
       - the law of capital market
       - the law on taxation
       - the law on banking
       - the law of foundation
       - the law of state owned enterprises
       - the law anti corruption
       - the law of central bank
       - the law of anti corruption committee

       More specifically, BPK status and activity is ruled by the following constitutional and legal
regulations, that have been all updated during the project period :
       - amended Constitution of 1945 (October, 2003) ruling the position of BPK RI as the
external auditor, its independence, and its location in all of provinces ;
       - the BPK-RI law, No 5/1973 ;
       - the state finance law, No.17/2003, ruling the mandate of BPK RI to audit financial
statement of the government and to review internal control of the government ;
       - the treasury law, No.1/2004, ruling the mandate of BPK to prosecute treasurer causing


                                                - 45 -

state losses ;
       - the audit law, No.15/2004, ruling the mandate of BPK to audit the state finance.

BPK staff contributed in-depth in updating these legal regulations, which have been substantially
improved even if not up to BPK expectations. During the project period, BPK efforts were not
directly supported by the project, but the part of BPK RI's commitment has been executed by a
special team, which has been drafting the BPK RI's versions of every above new regulations, and
participated in every state committees.

       A specific law devoted to BPK status and competencies has also been prepared and is
under Parliament examination. It is of course a major issue to BPK, which shall request a huge
BPK investment in the framework of a future project.

       Creation of the Legal Counselor ­ Legal Advisers system

       It was a weakness of BPK auditors to qualify correctly their findings and to collect enough
documentary evidence to support legal prosecutions.

The impact study implemented in September 2004 mentions that "Regarding the quality of audit
reporting, a senior member of the Commission IX had stated that the audit reports are generally
exaggerated, and that when these reports are sent to the National Police or the Attorney General
for court enforcement, it was found that in some instances the findings did not warrant any
further court action due to lack of adequate supporting evidence and information."

 The statement of the Commission 9 member is somehow exaggerated itself at the moment, but
was not at the beginning of the project. That is the reason why BPK created in 2002 a system of
reports review by a specific team headed by a "Legal Counselor", at the disposal of BPK Board
and Heads of Departments in order to review delicate legal issues and qualifications.
Corresponding teams have been created in every regional offices under the authority of a "Legal
Adviser".

This creation has two effects :
       - in the short term, it improves the legal quality of reports, according to Parliament and
Public Prosecutor expectations ;
       - in the long term, it is a key factor of consistency of Indonesian jurisprudence despite
decentralization.

The first consequences of this innovation appear as very positive, and, taken into account the
legislative numerous improvements, BPK considers the implementation of this component as
satisfactory. It is also the conclusion of the impact study implemented in September 2004 which
concludes : "This component has been satisfactorily implemented."

The very next future will however face a crucial phase in BPK status and competencies
improvement through the vote of the new BPK specific law, and this will request a new huge
involvement and investment of BPK which should be supported in the framework of a new



                                                - 46 -

project.

                                            Conclusion

BPK-RI is very different on September 30, 2004 from what it was on August 4, 1997. The
project made possible by the Work Bank loan provided deep and long lasting improvements. An
analytic review of each component of the project fails to express the global change in the culture
of the institution. It fails to represent the deep change in accounting culture, the new
communication mentality supported by the development of electronic connections, the strong
motivation of young auditors facing a new and exciting challenge.

The above review of components can be easily summarized.

The implementation of information technology is an obvious success. The equipment phase is
achieved. An effective transfer of technology allows BPK technical IT team to maintain the new
sophisticated instrument without needing overseas technical assistance. Next phase will be the
development of specific applications allowing auditors to implement more acute audits, and the
supporting bureau's to rationalize management ; the tool is hear, users are convinced, next
project can develop on a solid base.

Training of a wide range of BPK officers allowed them to enlarge their understanding of audit,
and their awareness of their country's expectations. It was also a first phase, as it was not
sufficiently connected with a parallel change in audit implementation practice. Next phase will
allow to support enlargement of the scope of audit implemented by providing specific in-depth
skills to advanced auditors in a position to apply them. But the World Bank project prepared
perfectly this next phase.

In the legal area, BPK environment is deeply changing, but is still waiting for a BPK status
improvement allowing the respect of INTOSAI basic standards, like effective independence and
updated support to Parliament. But World Bank project made room to such an improvement, and
the new Indonesian authorities intentions are positive.

Internally, the legal appraisal of audit findings made substantial progress through the creation of
the Legal Counselor function, duplicated in BPK regional offices by the Legal Advisers. This was
a precondition for better legal assessments of audits' findings, and in fine for effective
prosecution. Again, the World Bank project gives a solid basis to further implementation.

Despite persisting ambiguities on BPK decentralization, the project benefited to regional offices
extension and staffing. The crucial phase, including exact balance between regional offices
autonomy and national consistency, is for the next project.

Audit methodology did not progress in proportion with the development of new available tools.
A new methodology has been concretized in a new Audit Manual (PMP), but the practical
implementation remains shy and routine driven. Audits implemented are still compliance audits,
financial statements audit develops only in some specific areas, and performance audit is just been



                                                - 47 -

born. None of them seem to comply fully with international standards. Some legal constraints,
relating to mandatory audits and mandatory delays, explain a part of this bureaucratic rigidity ;
but next project should apply as a priority to introduction of some flexibility in favor of
diversification and deepening of BPK audit activity. Quantity of audits must make room to
quality ; the World Bank project has been moderately successful in this area.

The chess relies in human resources management. Constraints of legal rules applying to civil
servants and legal bodies are heavy and did not let room to some significant improvement. It may
also constitute a comfortable alibi to the conservatism of a system mainly based on seniority.
However, BPK started to promote skilled and motivated auditors, despite young, to significant
responsibilities, and can hope that the new law applying to BPK, presently debated in Parliament,
will give a break for a much more dynamic human resources and career management. This is the
most important and urgent added value to be expected from next project.

All together, these developments justify a very positive appraisal of the efficiency of World Bank
loan, and a reasonable optimism towards the capacity of the young Indonesian democracy to set
up the appropriate external audit institution essential to any balanced democracy.




                                                - 48 -

- 49 -

