Report No. PIC4884
Project Name             Indonesia-BEPEKA Audit Modernizaton Project (@)
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Finance
Project ID               IDPE49051
Borrower                 The Government of Indonesia
Implementing Agency      The Supreme Audit Board of Indonesia
Badan Pemeriksa Keuangan Republic Indonesia
(BEPEKA)
1. Jenderal Gatot Subroto No.31
Jakarta Pusat 10210, Indonesia
Tel: 62-21-5738759
Fax: 62-21-5735869
Date PID Prepared        January 28, 1997
Projected Appraisal      February 24, 1997
Projected Board Date     June 17, 1997
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background: Modern governments are
increasingly relying on performance audits and the expertise of
their supreme audit institutions (SAIs) to answer important
questions of whether public expenditures and institutions are
achieving their intended goals and whether there are areas of waste
and inefficiency. As a result, SAIs have become important agents of
change and performance audits necessary tools of good governance.
Indonesia's economy has grown remarkably in the past two decades.
This is partially due to the government's concerted effort of sound
macro-economic management and the gradual opening of the economy.
Over the next decade, globalization will put further pressure on
achieving and maintaining international competitiveness, requiring
efficiency and effectiveness in the allocation of private as well
as public resources.
In a deregulated environment, market forces by and large drive
private investment and operations decisions and financial audits
are usually adequate to measure an entity's overall performance and
efficiency. These audit are generally carried out by private
auditors. Public entities, however, operate mostly in protected or
monopolistic environments. Financial (and compliance) audits alone
are not sufficient to provide a full assessment of a public
entity's performance. Performance auditing provides quantitative
and qualitative information to measure results against
expectations, often in absence of market forces or comparable
benchmarks. Hence, the Government of Indonesia and BEPEKA, the
Indonesian SAI, are keen to develop such capacity within Indonesia
and have requested Bank assistance to do so.
2.      Objectives: The objective of the project is to strengthen



BEPEKA and introduce performance auditing. This will be achieved by
developing the demand and support for performance auditing,
reducing internal supply constraints by upgrading relevant
technical and managerial skills, and by building the necessary
information infrastructure.
3.      Description: The project will (a) fine-tune BEPEKA's mission
within its broad mandate under the constitution; (b) adapt internal
processes and procedures to realize this mission; and (c) enhance
BEPEKA's capacity in government auditing, particularly in the area
of performance auditing, by upgrading its management information
systems and the skills of its auditors through external training
and established training center.
4.      Project Benefits: The beneficiary will be the Parliament of
Indonesia which is the main client/user of BEPEKA's audit reports.
Thus, the project can benefit the entire population of Indonesia in
so far as it can potentially improve the design and delivery of
public sector goods and services.
5.      Project Risks: The project is of medium risk but high reward.
The riskiness of the project is mainly due to "policy and strategic
planning" component which will have to assess broader sectoral
issues to sharpen BEPEKA's mission within its broad mandate under
the constitution. The component is expected to initiate the debate
and generate consensus among the key stakeholders on the pace and
direction of BEPEKA's development for the coming two decades. While
there seems to be political will to do so at this moment, Indonesia
will have elections in Spring and a new cabinet will take office
within the next eighteen months. The component would fail if the
political environment changes significantly.
The other activities under the project are categorized as low
risk/high reward based on past experience with Indonesia in the
areas of human resource development.
6.      Financing
Project Component                           Local   Foreign  Total
-------US $'000------
1) Policy and Strategy Formulation          0.30     0.40    0.70
2) Institutional Development
Skills Development/Training                 5.00    14.50   19.50
Audit Management                             0.90    2.50    3.40
3) Project Management                       0.45     --      0.45
Total                                       6.65    17.40
Total Baseline Cost                         6.65    17.40   24.05
Physical Contingencies                      --       --      --
Price Contingencies                         0.32     0.88
Total Project Cost                          6.97    18.28   25.25
-2 -



7.      Implementation: BEPEKA will be the implementing agency and
will execute the project through three venues (advisor, steering
committee, project management unit) which will interact to
implement various components. advisory services. The Advisor will
mostly interact with BEPEKA's chairman and management team to
explore and formulate BEPEKA's vision/mission and position the
institution to implement the vision. Together they will have to
define BEPEKA's mission and draw up an action plan for its
implementation. His/her recommendations will be taken up at the
Steering Committee, where a consultant/expert in organizational
behavior will translate these into concrete actions and processes
that need to be implemented across the institution. The Steering
Committee consists of the heads of all the units (including field
offices) the legal and the communications department. Finally, the
Project Management Unit will implement the day-to-day activities of
the project.
8.      Sustainability: The sustainability of the project depends on
four factors: (i) A clear mission statement and external support to
realize it: this will be tackled through the "strategic
development" component. (ii) Maintaining a rewarding and
professional environment and the necessary staff incentives system:
this again will be addressed through the "policy and strategy"
component which will address these issues. (iii) Maintaining and
expanding staff skills: the support for the training center will
provide a mechanism for BEPEKA to meet its ongoing standard
training/retraining needs. (iv) Adequate budgetary resources: the
"policy component" will estimate the adequate level of resources
and seek agreement on meeting them.
9.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector:
This is the first free standing project of its kind in the Bank.
Hence, there were no immediate comparators available. However, the
project has incorporated instrument (technical assistance loan)
specific, country specific and sector specific lessons that are
based on Bank earlier operations and sector work.
10.     Poverty Category: Not Applicable.
11.     Environmental Aspects: Not Applicable.
12.     Program Objective Categories: Not Applicable.
Contact Point:           Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-5454
Fax No.:   (202) 522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
-3 -



Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
- 4 -



