                                    Document of
                                The World Bank




                                                    Report No: ICR 00002853



          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                (IDA-41190 IDA-46550 IDA-H1870 TF-55175)



                                         ON A

                              CREDIT AND GRANT

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF XDR 26.3 MILLION
                       (US$ 33.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                     TO THE

                           RUPUBLIC OF MOLDOVA

                                         FOR A

                COMPETITIVENESS ENHANCEMENT PROJECT



                                December 12, 2013




Private and Financial Sector
Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia
                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective October 15, 2013)

                            Currency Unit = MDL
                            MDL 1.00 = US$ 0.8
                           US$ 1.00 = MDL 12.50

                               FISCAL YEAR


                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AC         Accreditation Center for Conformity Assessment of Products
AF         Additional Financing
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CCI        Chamber of Commerce and Industry
CEP        Competitiveness Enhancement Project
CGS        Credit Guarantee Scheme
CLD        Credit Line Directorate
CODB       Cost of Doing Business
CPS        Country Partnership Strategy
CQ         Consultants Qualifications
CRR        Commission for Regulatory Reform
DC         Direct Contracting
DFlD       UK Department of International Development
EBRD       European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EGPRSP I   Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of the
           Government of Moldova
EU         European Union
FDI        Foreign Direct Investment
FSAP       Financial Sector Assessment Program
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GOM        Government of Moldova
HACCP      Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
ICA        Investment Climate Assessment
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        International Finance Corporation
IUFR       Interim Unaudited Financial Report
ISO        International Organization for Standardization
IT         Information technology
LIL        Learning and Innovation Loan
LOC        Line of Credit Operation
MDL        Moldovan Lei
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MEPO       Moldovan Export Promotion Organization
MGFA       Matching Grant Facility Administrator
MGF        Matching Grant Facility
MOE        Ministry of Economy
MOF        Ministry of Finance
MSTQ       Metrology, Standardization, Testing and Quality
NAB        National Accreditation Board
NCFM       National Commission on Financial Markets
NISM       National Institute of Standardization and Metrology of the Republic of
           Moldova
PDO        Project Development Objective
PFI        Private Financial Institution
PHRD       Policy and Human Policy Development Grant
PIU        Project Implementation Unit
PSD        Private Sector development
RIA        Regulatory Impact Assessment
RRS        Regulatory Reform Secretariat
SCREA      State Commission for the Regulation of Entrepreneurial Activity
SME        Small and Medium Enterprises
SS         Single Source Selection
SSM        Services of Standardization and Metrology
TA         Technical Assistance
TACIS      Technical Assistance to CIS
TOR        Terms of Reference
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
WTO        World Trade Organization




             Vice President: Laura Tuck
           Country Director: Qimiao Fan
            Sector Manager: Paloma Anos Casero
        Project Team Leader: Melissa Rekas
          ICR Team Leader: Melissa Rekas
                                            MOLDOVA
                                Competitiveness Enhancement Project



                                                   CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information………………………………………………………………….i
   B. Key Dates………………………………………………………………………….i
   C. Ratings Summary……………………………………………………………….....i
   D. Sector and Theme Codes………………………………………………………......ii
   E. Bank Staff………………………………………………………………………….ii
   F. Results Framework Analysis……………………………………………………...iii
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs………………………………………......vi
   H. Restructuring ……………………………………………………………………..vi
   I. Disbursement Graph……………………………………………………………...vii

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design ............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes ............................................ 10
 3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 16
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 27
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 28
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 30
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 31
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 32
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 33
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 40
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 41
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results ........................................................................... 43
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 47
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 48
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 50
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 51
 MAP …………………………………………………………………………………..52
A. Basic Information
                                                                          Competiveness
Country:                Moldova                 Project Name:
                                                                          Enhancement Project
Project ID:             P089124                 L/C/TF Number(s):         IDA
ICR Date:               1215/2013               ICR Type:                 Core ICR
                                                                          REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     SIL                     Borrower:
                                                                          MOLDOVA
Original Total
                        XDR 6.70M               Disbursed Amount:         XDR 26.33M
Commitment:
Revised Amount:         XDR 26.33M
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Economy
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners: N/A

B. Key Dates
                                                                                Revised / Actual
     Process             Date             Process              Original Date
                                                                                    Date(s)
Concept Review:       11/23/2004     Effectiveness:             02/10/2006        02/10/2006
                                                                09/25/2009        09/25/2009
Appraisal:            09/26/2005     Restructuring(s):
                                                                06/26/2012        06/26/2012
Approval:             10/27/2005     Mid-term Review:              N/A                N/A
                                     Closing:                   06/30/2009        06/30/2013
Note: A mid-term review was not conducted, but the project was restructured when
additional finance was added in 2009.

C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory

C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings          Borrower              Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Not applicable     Government:         Not applicable
                                           Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
                                           Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                               Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                           Satisfactory
Performance:                               Performance:


                                                i
C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                           QAG Assessments
                             Indicators                                             Rating
     Performance                                 (if any)
Potential Problem Project                          Quality at Entry
                          No                                               Not applicable
at any time (Yes/No):                              (QEA):
DO rating before                                   Quality of
                           Satisfactory                                    None
Closing/Inactive status:                           Supervision (QSA):



D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                                  Original              Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Banking                                                                2
Central government administration                                     30
General industry and trade sector                                     40
Law and justice                                                       20
SME Finance                                                            8


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Export development and competitiveness                                24
International financial standards and systems                         13
Micro, Small and Medium Enterprise support                            25
Other Private Sector Development                                      13
Regulation and competition policy                                     25




E. Bank Staff
        Positions                         At ICR                            At Approval
Vice President:            Laura Tuck                           Shigeo Katsu
Country Director:          Qimiao Fan                           Paul Bermingham
Sector Manager:            Paloma Anos Casero                   Gerardo Corrochano
Project Team Leader:       Melissa Rekas                        Irina Astrakhan
ICR Team Leader:           Melissa Rekas
ICR Primary Author:        Hiran Herat




                                                ii
F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project's overall objective was to assist Moldova in enhancing competitiveness of
enterprises through improvements in the business environment and making adequate
standards, testing and quality improvement services available to enterprises.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
The PDO was revised, to include the wording “enhanced access to finance”, as part of the
restructuring carried out in 2009. The Revised PDO is: “to assist Moldova in enhancing
competitiveness of enterprises through improvements in the business environment,
enhancing access to finance, and making adequate standards, testing and quality
improvement services available to enterprises.”

(a) PDO Indicator(s)1

                                                                                Formally          Actual Value
                                                    Original Target
                                                                                Revised            Achieved at
     Indicator           Baseline Value              Values (from
                                                                                 Target           Completion or
                                                  approval documents)
                                                                                 Values           Target Years
Indicator 1:
Demonstrated
                                                                                              There is a fully-
capacity of the
                                                                                              functioning system of
Government to          No mechanism for                                      Development of
                                                                                              Regulatory Impact
coordinate and         evaluating the impact of                              new Strategy for
                                                                                              Assessment and a new
implement regulatory   new regulations on                                    the Regulatory
                                                                                              Regulatory Reform
reforms in             business operations                                   Reform
compliance with the    through consultation
                                                           N/A               Implementation
                                                                                              Strategy based on
                                                                                              "smart regulation"
Organization for       process within the                                    based on smart
                                                                                              principles, which
Economic Co-           Government and with                                   regulation
                                                                                              tackles the main
operation and          the public (2005                                      principles
                                                                                              constraints in the
Development
                                                                                              business environment.
(OECD) principles
Indicator 2:
Decrease of
regulatory
compliance costs of
companies/
Management time
                                17%                        15%                     10%                  10.7%
spent on meeting
regulatory
requirements2




1
 For indicators 1 and 3, no specific targets were established in the PAD or 2009 restructuring paper. Targets for
December 2012 and June 2013 were added in the 2012 Restructuring Paper.

2
  This indicator was called “Decrease of regulatory compliance cost” in the PAD and 2009 restructuring , and did not
have specific, quantitative targets. In the 2012 restructuring, the indicator “management time spent on meeting
regulatory requirements” was moved from the intermediate outcome indicators to the PDO level indicators. As an




                                                           iii
Indicator 3:
MSTQ system
                         Existing obsolete
development meeting
                         MSTQ infrastructure is
the World Trade                                                                                 Modernized and
                         not compliant with     Modernized and
Organization (WTO)                                                                              internationally
                         Moldova's commitments internationally recognized
commitments                                                               N/A                   recognized MSTQ
                         to WTO, which          MSTQ system, meeting the
(measured by                                                                                    system, meeting the
                         jeopardizes the growth WTO commitments
periodic surveys of                                                                             WTO commitments
                         of Moldova's exports
progress as per the
                         (2005)
WTO agreement)



(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                      Original Target                              Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                       Values (from                                 Achieved at
   Indicator                Baseline Value                              Revised
                                                         approval                                  Completion or
                                                                      Target Values
                                                       documents)                                  Target Years
                       Component A Business Environment
Indicator 1:
Inspections per
                                    18                          <12                 <12                    3.6
year per firm
Indicator 2:
Number of
government
officials and                       0                           600                 1100                  1120
experts trained in
RIA (cumulative) 3
Indicator 3:
Reduction in % of
management time
spent on meeting                   17%                          15%                 15%                  10.7%
regulatory
requirements
                       Component B Modernization of MTQ System
Indicator 1:
EU compatible
standards adopted                  133                          1600                2800                  5438
(cumulative)4
Indicator 2:
Accredited testing
facilities available                36                           44             At least 100              117
to enterprises5
Indicator 3 :
Number of
calibration services                5                           250                 1000                  1300
provided by NISM




intermediate outcome indicator, it had quantitative targets since the beginning of the loan, and therefore these were
transferred to the PDO level.
3
  Increased to 1100 in the 2012 restructuring.
4
  Increased to 1700 in the 2009 restructuring and to 2800 in the 2012 restructuring.
5
  Increased to 170 in the 2009 restructuring and reduced to “at least 100” in the 2012 restructuring because the team
realized that for an economy the size of Moldova, a number around 100 was more adequate.




                                                           iv
to enterprises
(annual)6
Indicator 4
Metrology system
is compatible with
EU (by                                                 Participation in
                                                                                   N/A                   N/A
participating in                                     EUROMET activities
EUROMET
activities) 7
                     Component C Facilitation of Enterprise Access to MSTQ
Indicator 1:
Number of
international
certifications                                                                  [Indicator
received by                       70                           110            dropped – see              N/A
Moldovan                                                                       footnote 8]
enterprises
increased
Indicator 2:
Matching Grants
disbursed for
International
                                  70                           170                 210                   249
certifications of
quality
(cumulative)8
Indicator 3:
Matching Grants
disbursed for
                                   0                           250                 250                   246
business
development8
                     Component D : Facilitation of Access to Finance
Credit information
                                  NA                      Established          Established           Established
system set-up
Indicator 2:
Reduced % of
businesses who
view access to
                                 51%                           <50%               <50%                   40%
finance as a
constraint (per
BEEPS) 9
                     Component F: Credit Line
Indicator 1:
Amount of term
                                   0                           N/A             22,500,000            22,500,000
credit disbursed




6
  Increased to 1000 in the 2012 restructuring.
7
  This indicator was dropped during the Restructuring carried out in 2009.
8
  During the June 2012 restructuring, the original indicator of “number of international certifications received by
Moldovan enterprises increased” was replaced by total matching grants disbursed was disaggregated into these two
indicators (which were being tracked at this disaggregated level over the life of the project).
9
  This indicator was dropped from the Results Framework when the Results Framework was updated through the
restructuring in June 2012. The restructuring updated the description of the “Facilitation of Access to Finance”
component to reflect what was actually needed and done on the project. More information on these changes can be
found in the body of the ICR.




                                                           v
through the Line of
Credit10



Indicator 2:
Sub-loans                                                                                      59 sub loans approved
approved to                                                                                    and disbursed directly
beneficiary                        0                           N/A                N/A         from the credit line and
enterprises                                                                                    29 sub loans disbursed
(cumulative)                                                                                  from the revolving fund
Indicator 3:
Percentage of non-
                                   0                            <5                 <5                    0
performing loans


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                                   Actual
           Date ISR
 No.                                    DO                               IP                    Disbursements
           Archived
                                                                                               (USD millions)
     1    07/22/2006            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                           0.50
     2    09/28/2006            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                           0.55
     3    11/06/2007        Moderately Satisfactory            Moderately Satisfactory                    0.97
     4    06/13/2008        Moderately Satisfactory                Satisfactory                           1.48
     5    06/22/2009        Moderately Satisfactory                Satisfactory                           3.42
     6    03/03/2010            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                           4.77
     7    07/23/2010            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                           7.32
     8    12/24/2010            Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                  12.88
     9    07/12/2011            Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                  24.10
     10   03/24/2012            Satisfactory                   Moderately Satisfactory                  30.51
     11   09/11/2012            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         31.50
     12   03/31/2013            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         33.14
     13   06/25/2013            Satisfactory                       Satisfactory                         33.65

H. Restructuring (if any)

                               ISR Ratings at   Amount
                  Board        Restructuring Disbursed at
 Restructuring                                                Reason for Restructuring &
                Approved                      Restructuring
    Date(s)                                                        Key Changes Made
               PDO Change DO            IP       in USD
                                                millions
                                                            Additional financing provided
               Yes, to include
                                                            to enhance the banking sector’s
                “Enhanced
  09/25/2009                     S       S           5.4    ability to provide the funding
                 Access to
                                                            required by enterprises to
                 Finance”
                                                            finance investment related to


10
   This indicator was added as a PDO level indicator during the 2009 additional financing and restructuring, and moved
to the Intermediate Outcome Indicators during the 2012 restructuring.




                                                          vi
                        ISR Ratings at   Amount
                Board   Restructuring Disbursed at
Restructuring                                         Reason for Restructuring &
               Approved                Restructuring
   Date(s)                                                  Key Changes Made
              PDO Change DO      IP       in USD
                                         millions
                                                     improving competitiveness;
                                                     extension of closing date.
                                                     Extension of the closing
                                                     date, .reallocation of funds
                                                     within the IDA Credit/Grant as
 06/26/2012       No      S       S          34.5
                                                     well as updating the end-of-
                                                     project Results Framework.




I. Disbursement Profile




                                        vii
1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design11

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Between 2000 and 2005 Moldova was on a steady path of recovery from the economic
decline of the 1990s. During this period, the Government maintained prudent fiscal and
tight monetary policies, which in effect brought inflation down to single digits, and
implemented a number of important policy reforms to promote economic growth and
reduce poverty. The legal and regulatory framework for private investments was
improved with the adoption of the Law on Insolvency, Title V of the Fiscal Code (Tax
Administration), the Law on Financial Institutions, and a new Civil Code. Moldova
joined the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, and was expecting to integrate with
the European Union (EU).

However, the growth performance of this period largely reflected a combination of: i)
economic recovery from the collapse of the 1990s, when the economy contracted by
more than 60 percent, and ii) the growth of consumption fueled by an inflow of
remittances, which were estimated at approximately 27 percent of GDP in 2004. Gross
fixed capital formation remained at low levels, averaging less than 17 percent of GDP
during the 2000-2004 period. Low levels of investment, in turn, hampered much needed
improvements in productivity in the real sector, and made the diversification of exports,
particularly to non-CIS markets, difficult.

The results of an Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) conducted during project
preparation suggested that the regulatory burden in Moldova was the main constraint for
dynamic private sector development and increased productivity. Limited access to
finance and outdated national system of standards and quality also posed tremendous
challenges for strengthening enterprise competitiveness.

Business Environment. At the time the project was prepared, Moldova still had one of the
highest regulatory compliance costs in the Europe and Central Asia (ECA) region. The
cumbersome certification, licensing, inspections, and customs regulations continued to
discourage foreign investment, and limited the ability of local firms to invest and
compete internationally. Moreover, multiple laws, regulations, and procedures were
duplicate, contradictory and lacking clarity – and as, such conducive to corruption.

To address these constraints, starting in 2001 the Government had exerted efforts to
improve the business environment, in particular by simplifying business registration and
licensing procedures, decreasing the number of licensed activities, consolidating them in
the Chamber of State Registration and the Chamber of Licensing respectively. Reforms
of the Investment Law providing equal treatment to foreign investors and of customs
procedures followed the WTO accession in 2001.


11
     This section is based on the Project Appraisal Document (PAD).




                                                           1
In 2004, the Government took a more systemic approach to reforming the business
environment with the adoption of a “Concept for Regulatory Reform”, which set the
framework for implementation of regulatory reform and defined its priorities, including
reform of business inspections, simplification of business licenses, authorizations,
permits, statistics reporting and reduction of costs and range of paid services offered by
supervisory and control bodies. It was followed by the adoption, also in 2004, of a radical
Law on Optimization of the Normative Framework for the Regulation of Business
Activities (also known as the Guillotine Law). This Law mandated a comprehensive
review of existing executive regulations of entrepreneurial activities and elimination of
those that were no longer needed or had no legal base.

The Government was committed to consolidate, expand and institutionalize the advances
made within the framework of the Law. In particular, the Government was aware of the
necessity of strengthening the capacities to promote and implement the inter-ministerial
reform program and introducing a regulatory impact assessment (RIA) in the legislative
process. The following areas were deemed essential at that point: (i) developing a
framework law on the principles of state regulations of economic activity; (ii) building
institutional capacities for regulatory reform planning and implementation; (iii) further
streamlining business entry and operations, particularly post-registration procedures in
the issuing of permits, licenses and similar documents; (iv) reducing the number of state
controls and inspections of business activities to diminish regulatory risks; and (v)
decreasing the burden of paid regulatory services rendered by public authorities by
setting tariffs for these services at the level of costs incurred, and providing free services
that did not imply additional expenses.

Standardization and Quality. Regulatory reforms provided necessary but not sufficient
conditions for a more competitive enterprise sector in Moldova. Global markets had
become increasingly stringent in terms of product quality and performance; and
conformity with international standards such as IS0 9000 had become a de facto
requirement for market access. Upgrading the framework for metrology (measurements),
standards, testing and quality (MSTQ) was a necessary first step in gaining access to the
foreign markets and boosting competitiveness.

Moldova inherited its MSTQ infrastructure from the old Soviet Union system. While the
main MSTQ institutions existed in Moldova, the entire system was based on centrally-
planned economy principles and used outdated equipment and standards, inadequate for
market economy practices in European and other international markets. With its
accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 2001, Moldova started the process
of reforming its MSTQ system in accordance with WTO commitments. This included a
transition to a system based on voluntary standards. In practice, however, the process was
slow and the old, counterproductive system was still in use.12


12
  As an example of the difficulties posed by the MSTQ system existing at the time of project preparation, all
certifications of foreign origin required re-certification in Moldova, which were unnecessary and in many cases




                                                      2
The Government started developing a four-fold quality infrastructure strategy focusing
on: (i) upgrading existing MSTQ institutions to international levels, (ii) improving
existing services and introducing new MSTQ services (based on demand from Moldovan
producers), (iii) promoting use of MSTQ services by enterprises to improve quality and
conformity with international standards; and (iv) capacity development for supervision of
production quality and consumer protection in line with the European Union practices.

More specifically, the government needed to undertake measures to: (i) improve
assurance of product conformity and accreditation according to international and
European criteria and practices, and to promote integration of Moldova’s products into
international markets; (ii) de-monopolize the conformity assurance procedure; (iii)
promote the voluntary application of standards and developing technical regulations in
accordance with international/European standards; (iv) create conditions for the
introduction of IS0 9000 quality and ISO 14000 environment management systems; and
(v) facilitate enterprises’ access to external technical expertise for upgrading quality of
their products and services, and obtaining ISO and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
Point (HACCP) certifications.

Access to Finance. The Economic Growth and Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper of the
Government of Moldova (EGPRSP) as of the time of project preparation defined poor
access to finance as one of the main impediments to growth of small and medium
enterprises (SMEs). While the overall soundness of the financial sector in Moldova was
perceived as adequate, it remained shallow with insufficient product diversification.
Lending to SMEs, especially long-term investment lending, was scarce. According to the
investment climate assessment mentioned above, the cost of financing remained one of
the key constrains to enterprise development. Issues included maturity mismatches in the
financial system (while the banking system was liquid, with capital adequacy of about 13
percent), too few financial products offered by financial institutions (for example, leasing
and factoring were not developed), and problems related to the lack or quality of
collateral. These issues were particularly worrisome since SMEs constituted over 90
percent of the total number of enterprises in Moldova, and were the main contributors to
new job creation. The problem of lack of collateral was especially relevant for SMEs, and
this problem was reinforced by the absence of a unified system of information on
enterprises’ payment practices and credit history.



impossible to perform given outdated systems, and also enabled system misuse. On the institutional level, the
separation of functions and responsibilities in the areas of standardization, national measurements standards,
verification and accreditation between the existing institutions was not explicit, leading to a conflict of interest. Testing
services to enterprises that were normally provided by secondary laboratories (usually privately owned) in other
countries were virtually non-existent in Moldova. As a result, the national MSTQ system was not fully recognized by
the corresponding European organizations, and this caused serious problems for the compatibility of Moldovan goods
(some of which were excellent candidates for international markets) with the requirements of international trade, thus
hampering the international competitiveness of the enterprise sector. The results of the initial demand survey referred to
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) identified key sectors and areas that needed new standards, and also
identified testing and certification needs. The results of this survey were expected to serve as a starting point for the
transformation of the MSTQ system.




                                                             3
In response to these challenges, the Government intended to strengthen lending
infrastructure and develop credit risk mitigation mechanisms. Several measures were
required in this respect, including: (i) development of an adequate legal framework for
establishment of a credit information system that enabled credit institutions to make
better informed lending decisions, while allowing SMEs to accumulate credit history and
business reputation they can use as non-financial loan security; and (ii) support for
emerging loan guarantee mechanisms in order to address the important issue of lack of
adequate collateral. In addition, it was also important to disseminate cash-flow based
lending methodologies and SME tailored standardized products that would enable banks
to decrease costs of lending and to deal with SME clients in a profitable manner.

Contribution to CAS objectives: The PDO was also relevant to the World Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy at the time the project was approved. The CAS for FY05-FY08
envisioned interventions that aimed directly at helping Moldova to achieve its
Millennium Development Goals through focusing on two areas: a) improvement of the
quality and access to social services - education, health, social protection, and community
infrastructure; and b) improvements in the business environment and public sector
governance.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators

The original Project Development Objective was to assist Moldova in enhancing
competitiveness of enterprises through improvements in the business environment and
making adequate standards, testing and quality improvement services available to
enterprises. The project was expected to yield following outcomes: more efficient and
streamlined business regulatory regimes (especially licensing and inspections) and
reduced regulatory compliance costs of enterprises to increase their competitiveness;
strengthened Government institutional capacity for carrying forward the business
environment reform agenda through the introduction of regulatory impact analysis;
upgraded national MSTQ system and improved and more accessible MSTQ services for
enterprises; improved quality and range of local consulting services available to
enterprises in the area of international certification, quality improvement, and product
modernization; and improved conditions of access of private small and medium
enterprises to the financial system .

The key performance indicators (original, prior to restructuring and additional financing)
were as follows:

Business Environment Improvement
    Regulatory constraints and regulatory compliance costs decrease measured by
       regular Cost of Doing Business enterprise surveys, including “management time
       spent on meeting regulatory requirements” reduced to at least 15% (from 17% in
       2004);
    Number of inspections maintained at the ECA average level of 18 per year and
       reduced to 10 per year by the end of the project;



                                            4
      Quality of legislative flow improved as measured by number of officials trained in
       regulatory impact assessment concepts and techniques (to reach at least 600
       assuming a repeat/overlap ratio of about 33%).

Modernization of MSTQ Systems
   Metrology system is compatible with EU and number of calibrations performed
      by the National Institute of Standards and Metrology (NISM) increased to 300 per
      year (from the current 5 per year);
   Standardization system is compatible with EU, and number of EU compatible
      standards adapted for Moldova reaches at least 1,700 by the end of the project
      (from the current 133);
   Accreditation system is compatible with EU and number of accredited testing
      laboratories reaches 44 by the end of the project

Enterprise Access to MSTQ Services
    Some 100-120 new international certifications are received by Moldovan
       enterprises

Access to Finance
    Credit information system is set up

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators

The PDO was revised slightly to include “enhanced access to finance” in 2009, due to an
“adaptive restructuring” presented by the opportunity to include a line of credit into the
project, during the global financial crisis (see section 1.6). The results framework also
was revised to more comprehensively and accurately measure project outcomes. Three
new indicators were added; one indicator definition was revised; missing baselines were
added; and one PDO indicator was moved to the component level (matching grants
disbursed for international certifications of quality).

In the June 2012 restructuring, the results framework was updated again. The targets
were increased as of June 2013 for all indicators except for “number of accredited testing
facilities available to enterprises”. This target was reduced from 170 to “at least 100” due
to the fact that, in consultation with the National Accreditation Body and the Ministry of
Economy, it was established that a country of the size of Moldova does not need more
than 100 accredited testing facilities and it is the quality of services provided at these
testing facilities that matter most rather than the number of facilities. It should also be
noted that the target for “% of management time spent on meeting regulatory
requirements” was changed from 15% to 10% as a realistic target achievable during the
project implementation period.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The primary beneficiaries of the project were the enterprise sector, especially SMEs. The
Ministry of Economy (MoE), the State Commission for Regulation of Entrepreneurial


                                             5
Activity (SCREA), Regulatory Reform Secretariat (RRS), the National Institute for
Standardization and Metrology (NISM), the Accreditation Center for Conformity
Assessment of Products (AC), and other institutions of the MSTQ infrastructure were
also expected to be major beneficiaries. The Administrator selected to administer
matching grants component (the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, selected through a
competitive process) was also expected to benefit from the technical assistance and
know-how to manage these activities.

1.5 Original Components

(i) Business Environment Improvement. This component was to contribute to the
government’s overall effort to improve the business environment. It was expected to
provide strategic input, including continuous support for developing the government’s
regulatory reform strategy, building institutional capacity for deregulation, and
introducing Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) in the legislative process of Moldova.
It was to build on the experience of the Law on Optimization of the Normative
Framework for the Regulation of Business Activities (2004, also known as “Guillotine
1”) implementation and ensure sustainability of its outcomes. The Law was implemented
by a high level State Commission for the Regulation of Entrepreneurial Activity
(SCREA), assisted by the National Working Group on Implementing Regulatory Reform,
which reviewed the regulations impacting business activities against criteria established
by the Law. The specific task of the State Commission was to ensure the implementation
of the National Strategy. Its mandate was to improve the business environment in
Moldova based on the objective indicators followed by the World Bank reports “Doing
Business” and “Good Governance”. The Regulatory Reform Secretariat supported the
Commission and its Working Group. The Secretariat’s main task was to develop the
proposals, carry out research, assist the ministries, and monitor results for the
Commission and its working groups’ deliberations. The main responsible agency for this
component was the Ministry of Economy.

This component of the project included institution-building activities for the SCREA, the
Regulatory Reform Secretariat, relevant departments of the MoE, and other entities
involved in the regulatory reform implementation, management, monitoring, and impact
assessment. It also provided technical assistance with review of regulations and drafting
relevant legal documents, setting up regulatory registries and information systems. To
build support and understanding among stakeholders in the business and government
sectors, the project also financed public awareness workshops and seminars, public
consultation activities, and study tours of key staff to selected countries where such
reforms were implemented. As a regular monitoring exercise to help the Government to
evaluate the impact of the reform, the Project funded annual Cost of Doing Business
(CODB) surveys.

(ii) Modernization of MSTQ System. This component addressed product quality
obstacles faced by enterprises competing in domestic and international markets related to
poor MSTQ infrastructure and services. The objective of the MSTQ Component was to
strengthen capacity of the MSTQ system to provide internationally acceptable (especially
EU-compatible) MSTQ Services. This objective was to be achieved through assistance to


                                           6
the Government in: (i) revising and strengthening relevant MSTQ regulations and
implementing institutional reorganization reform; (ii) building capacity in metrology and
testing area by upgrading most urgently needed by the industry laboratories in NISM and
strengthening their institutional capacity in order to perform basic measurements and
calibrations, as well as testing for enterprises; (iii) upgrading standards system through
translation and adaptation of most frequently used standards, strengthening institutional
capacity of NISM in this area, and revising relevant regulations in line with international
best practices; (iv) strengthening accreditation and certification capacity of Accreditation
Center; and (v) improving quality assurance and conformity system by strengthening
functions of the Conformity Assessment Board and know-how transfer from the EU. The
main beneficiaries under this component were Service of Standardization and Metrology,
National Institute for Standards and Metrology, Accreditation Center, and selected
conformity assessment bodies.

The project was to finance equipment (laboratory and information technology) and
technical assistance and training for NISM and select testing laboratories, Accreditation
Council, and Conformity Assessment Board and other conformity assessment bodies.
Translation and adoption of EU-compatible standards and technical documents were
included into the project. Special attention was to be paid to the capacity building
activities of the MSTQ institutions to ensure sustainability of the reform including
reaping full benefit from upgraded facilities. Staff was to receive specialized training in
operating new equipment and software, performing tests, assessments, implementation of
IS0 9001:2000, and other activities. An emphasis was to be made on building skills
among younger specialists and strengthening management and industry outreach.

(iii) Facilitation of enterprise access to MSTQ services. This component was to help
promote the use of MSTQ services by enterprises, especially SMEs, through the use of a
Matching Grant Facility (MGF). Its aim was to strengthen the competitiveness of
Moldovan companies, both to increase exports and secure their domestic market position
by improving quality of their products and services. The Facility was to provide financial
support on a matching basis to enterprises to obtain international certifications, such as
ISO and HACCP, and once the scheme was well established, to undertake feasibility
studies and upgrading technological processes. The project was to provide the grant
facility as well as technical assistance, training and some administration costs of the
Matching Grant Facility Administrator (MGFA). The Facility was administered by a
consulting company selected on a competitive basis.

(iv) Facilitation of Access to Finance. This component was expected to contribute to
improving access to finance of private enterprises (mostly SMEs). Given that the main
obstacle at the time included poor collateral on the part of the borrowers and inefficient
credit information system, the project was expected to help in: (i) creating regulatory
framework for establishment of a credit bureau and development of expertise for better
tracking credit histories, and (ii) building relevant capacity in implementing and
administering credit guarantee schemes in Moldova, as well as promoting of the SME-
tailored financial products and services within the Moldovan financial sector.




                                             7
(v) Project Management. The project financed costs of project management, monitoring,
financial management, audits and other activities related to overall project management,
monitoring and coordination

1.6 Revised Components

Through an additional financing (AF) and restructuring of the project carried out in
September 2009, a new line of credit component (LOC) in the amount of US$22.5
million was introduced, and the Development Objective was modified slightly to include
“enhance access to finance”. The revision was due to the on-going financial crisis at that
time and the need to ensure that enterprises continued to have access to credit.

The CEP was based on the inherent assumption that the banking sector, in combination
with foreign capital inflows, would be able to provide the funding needed by the
enterprise sector to finance investments related to improving competitiveness. This
assumption was challenged in 2008-09 by the global and regional economic downturn.
The global liquidity squeeze meant a drastic reduction in the already limited external
financing options for banks and enterprises alike in Moldova. In addition, adverse
economic conditions and stricter regulation in Russia, Ukraine and the EU – the main
destinations for Moldovan migrants – were already causing the inflow of remittances to
significantly slow down. At the same time, Moldovan banks were restricting the flow of
credit to the real sector in during that period in an attempt to preserve liquidity and
minimize the credit risks. As a result, even strong exporters found it increasingly difficult
to raise external financing even for working capital purposes. The main outcome of the
proposed restructuring was to improve access of private enterprises to credit and business
development services. A secondary outcome was the improved ability of Moldovan
banks to provide term financing to the enterprise sector.

Financial analysis of nine potential PFIs was undertaken in early June 2009 as part of the
project preparation process for additional financing. Potential PFIs were assessed from
the point of profitability, capital adequacy, asset quality, prudential compliance, corporate
governance and risk management. The assessment enabled the determination of which
banks could be eligible to participate in the Project. Six PFIs met the eligibility criteria
and was selected to participate under the LOC; one bank decided not to participate
because it had adequate access to finance from its international parent bank.

The LOC provided funding to qualified banks for on-lending to eligible exporting
enterprises to support their working capital and investment funding needs. Investment
loans were capped at € 800,000, while working capital loans could not exceed € 500,000.
The LOC was implemented by the Credit Line Directorate (CLD), which was established
in 1995 with the Bank’s Private Sector Development 1 (PSD 1) project support,
specifically for the purpose of administering credit line resources financed by
International Financial Institutions. The CLD was an autonomous structure within the
MOF, entrusted with the management of various donor-funded credit lines. The CLD had
an experienced team and had administered LOCs under several Bank-funded projects.




                                             8
During the 2009 restructuring, the existing Matching Grant Facility (MGF) was also
scaled up by $1.5 million. At that point in time, the MGF was co-financing only the cost
of the international certification of the quality management system (ISO) of the eligible
enterprises. The expanded facility provided matching grants for business advisory
services (BAS), which reimbursed beneficiary enterprises up to 50 percent of
expenditures (up to US$10,000 equivalent in Lei) in the following areas: consulting
services for preparation of business plans, feasibility studies, marketing, development of
new products and services and on-the-job training of management and personnel,
including IT requirements.

The MGF was implemented by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Moldova
(CCI), who was selected through a competitive process, following Bank procurement
guidelines. The MGF expanded access to business development services was meant to
complement the LOC and help increase competitiveness of enterprises.

Consistent with the addition of these components, the project’s closing date was extended
from December 31, 2009 to June 30, 2012.

1.7 Other significant changes

The June 2012 restructuring involved the following:
   (i)    extension of the Closing Date from June 30, 2012 to June 30, 2013
   (ii)   reallocation of funds between goods and the consultancy categories, to reflect
          changes in the actual costs of project activities
   (iii)  updating the end-of-project targets until the extended closing date and
          enhancing measurement of the project outcomes (as described in section 1.3).
   (iv)   updating the description of the “Access to Finance” component to describe
          what was financed and undertaken under the project, given that the idea of
          further developing the government credit guarantee system was abolished in
          favor of a credit line under the Additional Financing (AF) in 2009.

These changes did not affect the Project Development Objective (PDO).

The restructuring was required to ensure and sustain achievement of the PDO. It enabled:
(a) completion of the procurement of the equipment under the modernization of the
metrology, standards, testing and quality system (MSTQ) system component; (b)
reimbursement of beneficiary enterprises from the Matching Grant Facility (MGF); and
(c) utilization of savings of $2 million for new assignments that fall within the description
of the business environment improvement, modernization of the MSTQ system and
matching grant components.



2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry


                                             9
(a) Soundness of the background analysis

The CEP was expected to help the Government to continue the business regulatory
reform and to commence modernization of the national standards and quality system, all
together, leading to improved competitiveness of the Moldovan economy in international
markets and its attractiveness for FDI. The analysis carried out under the CEP was sound,
as it built on the experiences of the two Private Sector Development (PSD) Projects
which created constituency for broader reforms of business environment and access to
technical assistance, training, and investment finance. In addition, the project built on the
findings of Investment Climate Assessment (ICA) that was concluded prior to project
preparation, the Financial Sector Assessment Program (FSAP), the Country Economic
Memorandum, the Trade Development Study, as well as on the experience of other Bank
financed technology and business environment projects implemented in Turkey, Tunisia,
Brazil and Indonesia. Initially, the Project was envisaged as a Leaning and Innovation
Loan (LIL), but this idea was dropped since the Project was not an experimental type
operation and the considered intervention was beyond LIL potential.

(b) Assessment of the Project Design

In the design stage, the project benefited from the previous experience of the World Bank
in supporting private sector development in Moldova, as well as World Bank’s extensive
experience in implementing industrial technology and regulatory reform projects around
the world. By supporting government measures aimed at reaching medium term
objectives of the EGPRSP of the Government of Moldova and relying on active
participation of the MOE, MOF, the Prime Minister’s Office and business community
representatives, the project strongly echoed the principles of long-term comprehensive
development and country ownership put forth in the Comprehensive Development
Framework, as well as the lessons learned and outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy document (FY05-08) at that time, particularly the importance of allowing
Governments to proceed with policies which they owned.

At the same time, the project built on the international experience and lessons learned in
the course of the regulatory reforms implementation in several countries. It
acknowledged the importance of the institutional infrastructure for successful
implementation of regulatory reform, and the necessity of local capacity building and
improvement of the quality of legislation process for ensuring long-term sustainability of
the reform’s results

With respect to the matching grant component, the experience of the World Bank in the
provision of matching grant schemes suggested that it was extremely important to find
the correct proportion of the grant amount to the funds provided by enterprises. Too high
a threshold may have become prohibitive and prevented enterprises from applying. At
the same time, a low threshold may have resulted in funding undertakings that would
have been financed even without a matching grant. These considerations were taken into
account during project design.



                                             10
While the MSTQ component addressed the supply side of the MSTQ system, the
matching grants and access to finance components aimed at increasing the demand for
the above services in the private sector. At the same time, expansion of SMEs depended
critically on both the business environment, as well as on the access to finance and to
technology services, addressing these issues in a combined manner was expected to have
a total effect greater than the added effect of each individual component due to the
existence of synergies among project components.

While the Bank team understood the complexity involved in the selection of project
components (to bring synergies), the anticipated time frame (three and a half years) to
implement and to achieve these synergies may have been optimistic. In addition, given
the low technical capacity of the Borrower with respect to MSTQ activities, and the
complex nature of procurement of equipment involved, the Bank should have guided the
Borrower to acquire the required TA during the design stage which would have helped to
mitigate the delays encountered at the early stages of project implementation (see under
lessons learned).
(c) Adequacy of Government’s Commitment

The Government showed a strong commitment to the areas to be addressed under the
project even before the project was approved. Evidence of this included:
     Accession to the WTO in 2001
     Adoption/approval of the “Concept for Regulatory Reform” and the Guillotine
        Law in 2004
     Adoption of the national quality infrastructure strategy

The Government’s commitment remained strong throughout project implementation. The
Minister of Economy was actively engaged and supportive of the project, the PIU and
Credit Line Directorate functioned very well, and all primary beneficiaries (NISM, NAB,
RRS, others) were actively engaged. The Government’s commitment to the project was
maintained even after the change in the governing party/coalition in 2009-2010.

(d) Assessment of Risks

Several risks were identified during project preparation, and risk mitigation measures
were incorporated into the project design as follows:

      Possible backtracking by the Government: Project preparation focused on the
       multiple and proven “reform champions” in MoE, MoF, and the Parliament. The
       team also sought broad involvement of non-governmental stakeholders (Chamber
       of Commerce, private entrepreneurs, etc.) in project preparation and
       implementation. The Project financed “hard TA” - introduction of specific
       international MSTQ standards and international certificates and financed the
       MSTQ equipment compatible with EU requirements.
      Regulatory reform efforts becoming unsustainable due to political factors (e.g.
       changes in the government coalition): The proposed legal and institutional
       framework was reflected in the framework law establishing principles of state


                                          11
       regulation of economic activities. There was quite consistent support of regulatory
       reforms among a broad spectrum of political forces and the role of academia and
       civil society was enhanced.
      Weak capacity of participating MSTQ institutions: Special attention was paid to
       implementation arrangements. Institutional capacity building was initiated before
       procurement of equipment.
      Weakness in the legal and institutional framework will hamper the development
       of the MSTQ system: The project supported the review of the legal framework
       and reorganization of the institutional infrastructure to bring them closer to EU
       practices, as well as assist the government in the preparation (and following
       through initial stages) of a development strategy for the MSTQ system.
      Weak demand for grants among SMEs: Public information and awareness
       campaigns were undertaken to inform potential beneficiaries about the MGF.
       Assessment of demand was undertaken at the project preparation stage. The ratio
       of matching element of the grant scheme was adjusted with the view of making
       grants attractive for beneficiaries.
      Weak demand for credit information: Two round tables organized by BIZPRO (a
       USAID funded project) indicated growing interest among commercial banks for
       credit information. A working group formed with participation of the National
       Association of Banks and other stakeholders was established to advance the
       creation of a credit bureau, and the project supported it with the required technical
       assistance.
      Unwillingness of banks to share information: The MoE and the MoF worked
       closely with the National Association of Banks and a Working Group that was set
       up to deal with the key issues pertaining to the credit system design and
       establishment.

A Quality at Entry (QAE) review was carried out for the project and found satisfactory.
Comments received were incorporated in the project design. In addition, other project
related risks were identified and mitigation measures were put in place, as described
above.

2.2 Implementation

(a) Factors outside the control of government or implementing agencies:

As described in section 1.6, the assumption that the Moldovan banking sector and foreign
capital inflows would provide the funding needed by the enterprise sector to finance
investments related to improving competitiveness, was challenged during the global
financial crisis of 2008-2009. The reduced access to finance that the crisis caused in
Moldova had a potential to lead to loss of markets, triggering bankruptcies with a ripple
effect in the economy. This could have ultimately undermined the expected development
effect of the CEP.

(b) Factors generally subject to government control:



                                            12
The new operating environment, as a result of the financial crisis mentioned above, called
for pro-active restructuring of the project, which was carried out by the Bank and the
Borrower. The support came in the form of additional financing (AF in 2009) that
enabled the Moldovan export-oriented enterprises to effectively address the challenges
arising from the economic crisis. Through the LOC instrument, the authorities expected
to help banks raise term funding at a reasonable cost, to be able to provide credit to the
enterprise sector on affordable terms. In parallel, the expansion of a successful matching
grant fund (MGF) was expected to allow the private firms to pursue the business
development activities in these changed circumstances.

(c) Factors subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing agency was the MoE. The relevant parts of the project was
implemented by the various MoE agencies (RRS, SSM, NISM, AC) and other selected
agencies (the LOC by the Credit Line Directorate and the MGF by the Chamber of
Commerce). A PIU was established within the MoE. The PIU was responsible for the
day to day management of the project including, procurement, disbursement, financial
management, monitoring and evaluation. Overall, the performance of the PIU was very
satisfactory and project implementation was smooth and no major impediments were
encountered.

The day-to-day responsibility for implementation of the LOC component lay with the
CLD. At that point in time, the CLD was administering half a dozen credit lines financed
by IFIs. The CLD had an experienced team which was well versed in standard World
Bank credit line administration related requirements. The CLD signed Subsidiary
Financing Agreements (SFAs) with six eligible Participating Financial Intermediaries
(however, only five banks finally participated), through whom the total amount of AF
allocated (US$ 22.5 million) was fully disbursed.

The MGF component was successfully implemented and the allocated funds nearly fully
disbursed (disbursement ration of 98.4% at the end of the project). The Chamber of
Commerce did a satisfactory job of managing the MGF. Details of the program can be
found under Project Achievements and in Annex 11. A factor that affected the level of
disbursement is explained in section 6 on Lessons Learned.

During implementation, there were some delays in the rehabilitation of the NISM
premises, which was to be undertaken by using Borrower’s own funds. As a result of this
delay, first delivery of equipment for the MSTQ laboratories was delivered only about 18
months into project implementation, a delay approximately of one year. In addition, some
sophisticated laboratory equipment had to be tendered twice, due to the lack of technical
expertise (to write the technical specifications) in house and the PIU. This shortcoming
was mitigated, however, by the PU by hiring an international expert to write the technical
specifications and follow up on the procurement process, which was successfully
concluded in a short time thereafter. This delay did not have an adverse effect on the
project as the closing date was extended to include a new component for additional
financing.



                                           13
The project was never considered at risk at any time during implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

(a) M&E Design: The PIU was responsible for the overall monitoring and evaluation of
project performance. Progress was to be monitored both to gauge the overall progress, as
well as for indicators: (i) input indicators; (ii) output indicators; and (iii) outcome
indicators. Annual Cost of Doing Business surveys were carried out by firms/consortia
hired under the project, to determine the perception of progress by the business
community.

(b) M&E Implementation: The PIU produced quarterly and annual monitoring and
evaluation reports. These reports were shared with the Government and the Bank, and
served as a useful tool for project monitoring and progress reporting. During
implementation, the results framework was revised to more comprehensively and
accurately measure the project outcomes, as part of a restructuring carried out in 2012.

(c) M&E Utilization: The PIU monitored and assessed the outcomes of the project on a
frequent basis. Using the reports mentioned above, the PIU assessed progress towards
meeting the end-of-project targets, identifying issues and risks and reporting on time-
bound action plans to mitigate them. The reports aided the assessment of the project’s
progress and also served as a basis for dialogue with stakeholders (The Bank, MoF).
Annual Cost of Doing Business surveys of enterprises were used for assessing progress in
the business environment over time and in comparison with international benchmarks.
The set of selected indicators of the CODB 2005 was used as a baseline for project results
monitoring purposes. The enterprise surveys were complemented with discussions of
focus group of business representatives to assess the situation in specific areas of the
business environment.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
The project did not entail any major environmental risk and did not include any
construction or land acquisition. The project was rated as category “C”. There were no
issues in compliance with environmental safeguards. The project supported 59
subprojects (through the line of credit) and 29 sub projects through the Revolving Fund,
among which only two subprojects were in category B, while the rest was classified as
category C. Most of the subprojects were related to industrial activities (requiring
working capital for purchase of raw materials and equipment). The Environmental
Management Framework was implemented successfully with all subprojects assessed
from an environmental point of view, providing them with an environmental category as
well as requiring relevant environmental authorizations, licenses and permits. In
addition, all subprojects that were approved had relevant supporting EA documents –
Environmental Screening Checklist and/or simple Environmental Management Plans.




                                           14
The project did not entail any social risk or risk of adverse social impact. On the contrary,
the project assisted to make entrepreneurial activities easier to pursue and in the medium
term increase the demand for labor in more competitive enterprises.

The financial management of the project was assessed as satisfactory. There were no
outstanding audit reports for the Project and all audit reports were found satisfactory to
the Bank. Quarterly interim unaudited financial reports (IUFRs) were submitted to the
Bank. The project audits received “unqualified” opinions of the audited financial
statements and no major systems and control issues were identified by the auditors during
the course of the audits.

Procurement under the project was rated as satisfactory, based on review of prior review
documents and post review missions. The PIU had followed the Bank's procurement
rules and procedures and no major procurement issues were encountered.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The project achieved its objectives, and key elements for project sustainability are in
place. The CEP helped the Government to continue to implement the business regulatory
reform started earlier and to commence modernization of the national standards and
quality system, all together, leading to improved competitiveness of the Moldovan
economy in international markets. The Bank continues to play an important role of a
reform facilitator and coordinator of the reform efforts in accordance with the
international best practices. For instance, the June 2013 study on Policy Priorities for
Private Sector Development in Moldova directly informed the Government’s Business
Roadmap2013-14, a guiding reform document.

In addition, the Government’s commitment to business environment reform and EU
integration, and the additional technical assistance and financing to be provided through
the proposed Second Competitiveness Enhancement Project (CEP II, Board date in
FY15), provide a good reassurance for the sustainability of this Project.




                                             15
3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation

(a) Relevance of Objectives:

The relevance of the objective is rated high. The PDO of the CEP was to assist
Moldova in enhancing competitiveness of enterprises through improvements in the
business environment and making adequate standards, testing and quality improvement
services available to enterprises remain highly relevant for the Government of Moldova.
This was consistent with the Government’s effort to implement reforms to eliminate the
bottlenecks to growth identified in the EGPRSP.

Points that are specifically relevant include the following: (i) Systematic review of
existing legislation affecting business (Guillotine exercise) resulted in major
simplification in the legal framework for business entry and operations; (ii) The RIA
methodology became mandatory for the preparation of all new regulatory acts affecting
business operations, which has led to a reduction in the cost of doing business
substantially (Annual Cost of Doing Business Survey); (iii) Provision of internationally
compatible MSTQ systems and services were highly relevant for improving the
enterprise sector’s competitiveness and exports; (iv) Establishment of a Credit Bureau
has enabled most borrowers to establish their credit history and make it much easier for
them to borrower from participating banks, and has made the actual level of bank debt
transparent.

The relevance of the PDO was still rated high with the restructuring carried out in 2009
(see para 1.6). The MGF and the LOC, helped enterprises to improve business
performance, finance their working capital and investment needs, and made them more
competitive and helped increase exports.

The PDO was also relevant to the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (FY05-08),
as described in section 1.

(b) Relevance of Design:

The relevance of the design is rated substantial. The design of the CEP was consistent
with its PDO. The project was intended to address the unfavorable business environment
and high regulatory compliance costs and to improve productivity and competitiveness of
Moldovan enterprises. This was to take place through the provision of technical
assistance and institutional support, a Matching Grant Fund (MGF) and a Line of Credit
Operation (after restructuring). The project was designed to address these constraints by
simplifying business registration and licensing procedures, decreasing the number of
licensed activities, providing equal treatment to foreign investors and, including reform
of business inspections, simplification of business licenses, authorizations, permits,
statistics reporting and reduction of costs and range of paid services offered by
supervisory and control bodies. As mentioned in Section 2.1 (b), given the complexity of



                                           16
the project, it would have been advisable during the design phase to have allocated more
time (than the three and a half years anticipated) to achieve the desired results.

Consideration was also given to continuing provision of management training initiated
under PSD I project for building local managerial capacity at private enterprises. This
option was rejected, since Moldova was limiting its borrowing for training and technical
assistance (TA). Instead, it was decided to consider a matching grant scheme to facilitate
access of enterprises to technological and management know-how related to MSTQ. The
grant scheme was also expected to benefit the development of local consulting market for
technology and business services through stimulating private sector demand for them.
The Government also initially was keen to borrow for a credit line to support SME
lending (following a good experience of the PSD-I credit line). An alternative approach
was considered, in the form of a credit guarantee scheme facility. However, due to a
combination of factors – such as limited resources allocated for this project, existing good
liquidity among the Moldovan banks, existing track record of Moldovan banks to carry
out SME loans evaluations, and lack of proven and financially viable institution to
administer a credit guarantee scheme – it was decided to focus on initial stages of
developing credit guarantee industry as a tool to encourage the financial institutions
mobilize their own liquid assets for SME lending. Although the LOC was not included in
the original design (for reasons given above), it was included as part of the 2009
restructuring given the prevalent financial crisis at that time (see section 1.6)

(c) Relevance of Implementation:

Relevance of implementation is rated as substantial. Implementation of the various
project interventions to improve business environment were highly relevant. The
systematic review of existing legislation affecting business (Guillotine exercise) resulted
in major simplification in the legal framework for business entry and operations. In
addition, the RIA methodology became mandatory for the preparation of all new
regulatory acts affecting business operations, which has led to a reduction in the cost of
doing business substantially (Annual Cost of Doing Business Survey). Project
interventions to improve provision of internationally compatible MSTQ systems and
services are likewise highly relevant for improving the enterprise sector’s
competitiveness and exports. The project-financed strategy for the integrated
development of the MSTQ system continues to provide a medium-term strategy for
facilitating integration with the EU and for institutional development of the project
beneficiary agencies. Project interventions to establish the Credit Bureau has enabled
most borrowers to establish their credit history and make it much easier for them to
borrower from participating banks, and has made the actual level of bank debt transparent.
As mentioned in section 1.6, the global financial crisis during implementation (2009),
affected the liquidity of the banking sector in Moldova and in turn the enterprise sector.
The Bank team worked closely with the Borrower to provide additional financing for a
LOC that would help alleviate the liquidity requirements of the enterprise sector. The
smooth implementation of the MGF and the LOC helped enterprises to finance their
working capital and investment needs, and made them more competitive and helped
increase exports. As mentioned in 2.1 (b), the initial implementation delays could have



                                            17
been avoided, if during the project design stage, the required technical expertise was
available.

Overall, Relevance is rated as Substantial.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

The project has met its PDO by enhancing the competitiveness of enterprises through
improvements in the business environment and modernization of the MSTQ system and
access to finance (after restructuring) and is rated as High. However (prior to the first
restructuring) from late 2007 through mid-2009, the DO was assessed moderately
satisfactory. Only 37 percent of the total financing had been disbursed (total of $5.4
million of which IDA was $1.9 million). The disbursement lag with regard to IDA
resources stemmed from somewhat delayed project effectiveness, but more importantly
from the original project design, under which the PHRD grant was first used to engage
consulting services for due diligence and preparation of technical specifications for goods
packages under the MSTQ component, to be then financed by the IDA Credit Grant.
Notwithstanding the disbursement lag, the Project remained well on track in meeting its
Development Objective and related outcomes. Just prior to Restructuring, a mission that
visited Moldova agreed with the Ministry of Economy and Trade on the time bound
action plan for accelerating the implementation, with special attention given to the MSTQ
component due to its complexity. On the basis of the progress made since the previous
supervision visit in November 2008, the rating for the progress toward achievement of
the Project Development Objective (PDO) was upgraded from Moderately Satisfactory to
Satisfactory.

By achieving the objectives and targets, the project has improved: (i) the business
environment (efficient and streamlined business regimes and strengthened government
institutional capacity to carry forward the reform agenda); (ii) making adequate
standards, testing and quality improvement services available to enterprises by upgrading
the national MSTQ system (which led to improved product quality and thereby helps to
increase export competitiveness); (iii) improving the quality and range of local consulting
services through the MGF which led to obtaining international certifications, quality
improvement, and product modernization; (iv) enhancing access to finance through the
LOC which helped enterprises to invest and upgrade their production facilities and for
working capital purposes, which resulted in better quality products and increase in export
sales, including the establishment of better credit histories for enterprises seeking credit
as a result of the Credit Bureau set up under the project. The achievements under the
project is summarized below and detailed in Annex 1.


(i) Business Environment Improvement: Satisfactory

Outputs: The outputs under this component included institution building activities for
the State Commission for Regulation of Entrepreneurial Activity, the Regulatory Reform
Secretariat, relevant departments of the MoE and other entities involved in the regulatory



                                              18
reform implementation, management, monitoring, and impact assessment. The project
also financed public awareness workshops and seminars, public consultation activities,
and study tours of key staff to selected countries where such reforms were implemented.
As a regular monitoring exercise to help the Government to evaluate the impact of the
reform, the Project funded an annual Cost of Doing Business (CODB) surveys.

Outcomes: The activities of the business environment component were of major
importance for improving the regulation of business activity and ensuring the
improvement of investment/business climate and sustainable economic growth.

Under this, all outcomes far exceeded the targets envisaged at appraisal. One of the main
outcomes was to streamline business regulation (especially licensing and inspections) and
reduce regulatory compliance costs of enterprises. Outcomes include: (i) management
time spent on regulatory compliance was reduced drastically from 17 to 10.7 percent
(original target 15, revised down to 10); (ii) inspections per year per enterprise were
reduced from 18 to 3.6 (target 12); (iii) implementation of a fully-functioning system of
Regulatory Impact Assessment (RIA) for new legislation affecting business operations:
and (iv) training of 1,120 Government officials (target 600).

The project also strengthened Government institutional capacity for carrying forward the
business environment reform agenda through the introduction of regulatory impact
analysis. The RIA methodology is of major importance for public officials to support the
development, justification and promotion of draft regulatory acts. The project was also
critical in helping the Government to develop a new Strategy for Regulatory Reform, and
an accompanying Action Plan, focusing on practices of “smart regulation” – ensuring the
low cost/low risk principle in promoting new legislation, considering its impact on both
the State and the private sector. Through these actions, the project strengthened the
Government’s capacity to coordinate and implement regulatory reforms in compliance
with Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) principles.

(ii) Modernization of the MSTQ System: Satisfactory

Outputs: Under this component, the project supported the institutional reform, legal
reform and improvement of the MSTQ infrastructure, by providing technical assistance,
equipment, study tours and training to the various agencies under the MoE to upgrade the
national MSTQ system. Substantial results have been achieved. Initially, the project
assisted the NISM to develop an MSTQ strategy with detailed action plans (see below)
for each field of quality infrastructure (including metrology, standards, accreditation and
testing) and the required institutional restructuring. Subsequently, an independent
National Accreditation Bureau (NAB) was created, the former Department of
Standardization and Metrology was dissolved, and the policy decisions in the field of
MSTQ were transferred to the line ministry, MoE. The accredited testing facilities
available to enterprises increased from 36 in 2005 to 117 (target 100) by the end of the
project.




                                            19
The project helped develop and promote new legislation in line with international best
practices (for example, the metrology and accreditation laws and standardization law
were adopted by Parliament). Under the project, 5,438 EU compatible standards were
adopted, up from 133 (target 1700) at the beginning of the project. Further, the project
modernized and renovated eight national metrological laboratories. As a result, the
number of calibration services increased from 5 at the start of the project to over 1,300
(target 550) by project completion.

Outcomes: Upgrading of the national MSTQ system and improved MSTQ services for
enterprises was the major outcome under the component. As mentioned above,
substantial results have been achieved. In order to advance the process of meeting
Moldova’s commitments to the WTO and the recognition of the MSTQ system at the
European level, the Government restructured the MSTQ institutions whereby the NISM
has been reorganized into the National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and the National
Institute of Standardization (NIS). The project also contributed to the strengthening of the
institutional capacity of these newly created national bodies. In addition, the capacity of
the newly created NAB and the newly established Agency for Consumer Protection
(established on January 1, 2012) were also strengthened as part of the institutional
reorganization process. The MSTQ institutions that were strengthened under the project
are able to provide better services to the enterprise sector, thereby helping them to
produce better quality and more competitive products and to increase exports.

(iii)Matching Grants Facility: Satisfactory

Outputs: Enhanced access of enterprises to technical advice supporting their
modernization, quality improvement, and new product development was another outcome
envisaged under the project, which was achieved through the MGF component. The MGF
was subdivided into two sub-components: (i) the Quality Certification sub-component,
providing financial support to firms seeking to obtain international quality certifications
(i.e. ISO 9001, HACCP, etc.) and (ii) the Business Advisory Services (BAS) sub-
component, supporting firms interested in obtaining advisory and training services (added
in the 2009 restructuring). Over the 2006-2012 period, the Chamber of Commerce and
Industry (CCI) implemented this sub-component as MGF Administrator. The CCI
received applications from over 550 enterprises. By the end of the project, 495 matching
grants had been disbursed, of which 249 for Quality Certification, 246 for BAS. The total
number of companies that benefitted was 479 (16 companies used both sub-components).

Outcomes: The MGF mostly supported small and medium enterprises (SME), but the
presence of large enterprises is also not negligible (about 25% of the total, with a higher
share for the Quality Certification sub-component). In the case of the Quality
Certification sub-component, MGF support was mostly used to obtain ISO 9001
certification and, to a much lesser degree, food safety-related certifications (ISO 22000
and HACC). In the case of the business advisory services sub-component, funding was
mainly used for market studies, feasibility studies and management information systems.
Under this component, international certification of quality was obtained by 249
enterprises, far exceeding the target of 170 envisaged at appraisal. Of all the companies



                                            20
participating in the project, 59% implimened quality management systems consisting of a
single ISO, and 41% of them an integrated system consisting of multiple ISOs . The
outcome indicator for matching grants disbursed was 246 against a target of 250
estimated at appraisal. Overall, the MGF was very successful, although there were some
issues associated with its design, especially with regards to how the contract for the MGF
Administrator was structured, which led to some constraints (see Lessons Learned).

The project also financed a survey for CEP Impact Assessment. It included the evaluation
of the impact the project had on beneficiaries that participated in the MGF and the LOC.
This assessment provided additional data and evidence to demonstrate the achievement of
the PDO. It should be noted that the assessment was carried out several months prior to
project closing (June 2013), so the whole impact of the MGF on enterprises (especially
those who received the assistance in the last year of the project) was not yet fully evident.
Interventions co-financed by MGF resulted in a number of positive effects. More than
three quarters of the beneficiaries reported improvements in organizational effectiveness,
technical efficiency, and managerial skills as well as an increased credibility and
reputation vis-à-vis clients and suppliers. About half of the firms, participating in the
scheme also had positive effects in improving the product mix and in accessing new
markets.

The impact assessment detected a positive and statistically significant impact on export
sales: in the two years subsequent to the application, MGF beneficiaries exported on
average between MDL 9 to 12 million more than their peers in the ‘control group’. The
analysis also detected a positive relationship between MGF support and turnover (more
than 70% of the firms reporting a significant impact).

The MGF component also played an important role in the development and consolidation
of the consulting services sector in Moldova. Since the launch of the MGF the number of
service providers had increased significantly, and this was coupled with an improvement
in the quality of services provided, as per the feedback from the clients. Even more
importantly, the MGF greatly contributed to increase the awareness of the benefits of
professional advisory services in the business community, thereby stimulating a
spontaneous demand for consulting services. While only 7% of MGF beneficiaries made
frequent use of consultancy services before enrolling in the scheme, more than two thirds
expressed their intention to purchase advisory services with their own money in the
future, after participating in the scheme.

(iv) Enhancing Access to Finance: Satisfactory

Outputs: The original objective was to contribute to improving access to finance of
private enterprises (mostly SMEs). At that point in time, the main obstacles included poor
collateral on the part of the borrowers and inefficient credit information system.
Availability of finance was not an issue (see section 3.1 (b)). As a result, the project was
expected to (i) create regulatory framework for establishment of a credit bureau and
development of expertise for better tracking of credit histories, and (ii) building relevant
capacity in implementing and administering credit guarantee schemes in Moldova, as


                                             21
well as promoting of the SME-tailored financial products and services within the
Moldovan financial sector. However, given the global financial crisis during
implementation (in 2009, see section 1.6), and the lack of liquidity in the banking sector
to finance the requirements of the enterprise sector, a LOC was introduced in lieu of item
(ii) above through the additional financing and restructuring carried out in 2009.

The $22.5 million LOC was fully disbursed prior to the closing of the project. A total of
59 loans were disbursed directly through the LOC, and the CLD managed repayments of
these loans in a revolving fund, from which an additional 29 loans had been disbursed by
June 30, 2013. These loans went to finance 60 enterprises, with an average of about
US$ 400,000 per loan. Nearly half of LOC beneficiaries were active in agri-business,
with a strong presence of wine producers and other food processors. While the majority
of beneficiaries fell within the definition of SME, more than one third were large
enterprises, sometimes with turnovers well in excess of US$ 10 million.

The project assisted with the development of a regulatory framework for the private
Credit Bureau. The Credit Bureau was established, is fully operational, and is licensed
and supervised by the National Commission on Financial Market (NCFM). It currently
includes information from all banks and two leasing companies (with further expansion
expected). Reporting is voluntary, and requires prior consent of the borrower. A legal
amendment to mandate reporting of all commercial loans to the Credit Bureau is
currently under discussion. The CEP’s assistance with the legal framework contributed to
reducing perceived risks in SME lending through allowing them to establish credit
histories.

Only a small amount of funds (approximately $80,000) was allocated under the project
for TA to assist in capacity building for credit guarantees schemes and SME tailored
financial products mentioned under item (ii) above. As mentioned above, these activities
were replaced by the LOC component which was a priority for the Borrower, given the
prevalent financial crisis and lack of liquidity in the banking sector at that time. The
existing Credit Guarantee entity was not fully capitalized and its activities were very
limited. In addition, the banking sector was more focused on liquidity management
rather than on developing new financial products for the SME sector. As a result, both
the Bank and the Borrower agreed not to pursue item (ii) above. A small amount of funds
under item (ii) above (approximately $5,000) were used to help improve the legal
framework for the private credit bureau, as described above.

Outcomes: Two-thirds of LOC borrowers obtained working capital loans, one-fifth
obtained investment loans, and the rest obtained both types of loans. With respect to
working capital financing, three quarters of enterprises indicated that LOC loans played
an important role in the purchase of raw materials and other inputs (which could be
bought in larger quantities and/or at the most appropriate time) and in reducing delays in
payment to suppliers. To a lesser degree, loan proceeds were also used to support the
entry in new markets or market segments, to expand production capacity and/or
modernize existing facilities (in the case of investment loans), and to extend more
favorable payment conditions to clients.



                                           22
In 2012, Moldova’s exports stood at US$ 2.2 billion, compared with US$ 1.3 billion in
2007. Based on the impact assessment carried out (see section 3.2 (iii)), the value of
incremental exports attributable to the participation in the LOC component was in the
order of US$ 14 to 20 million. The LOC exerted only a limited influence on the financial
sector in general. The possibility of accessing long term resources at a reasonable cost
was obviously appreciated by participating banks, but this did not lead to major changes
in their operating modalities. Some banks reported being able to offer loans with a longer
maturity, at least in the case of working capital loans, but none appeared to have
developed specific products in connection with access to LOC funding.

The CLD required that the PFIs simplify their pricing structure to be more transparent to
beneficiaries and include only the interest rate and commitment fee – no disbursement fee,
front-end fee, or prepayment penalty. In accord with the Operations Manual for the
Credit Line, the CLD promoted best practice in lending in regards to the pricing of the
sub-loans. Even though the final decision on applicable fees and commissions rested with
the PFIs, the banks were responsive to CLD’s request. This was an important good
practice in the area of SME and consumer finance that was introduced with the help of
the CEP credit line. The latter practice was also very much appreciated by the
beneficiaries based on the interviews during the impact evaluation.

Most of the feedback from the PFIs was positive, with special focus on the long-term
maturity of the loans, which was considered as one of the major problems for the
Moldovan banks, as well as the advantageous interest rates. The PFIs have expressed
demand for future lines of credit operations.

The Credit Bureau has already helped establish a credit history for most borrowers, which
should particularly benefit micro- and small companies seeking credit. The bureau
currently stores data on 130,000 borrowers and 250,000 loans. Despite its short existence,
the data provided by the Credit Bureau is very comprehensive. This is a significant
achievement, given the limited time frame. The Credit Bureau has already helped clients
establish a credit history, and made the actual level of bank debt transparent. The
information is stored for seven years, and borrowers have a right to verify the data. The
Doing Business Credit Information index now assigns 4 out of 6 points to Moldova.

3.3 Efficiency

The project achieved its objectives efficiently, and the achievements can be rated as
Substantial. Based on the impact assessment (see above) the added value of exports due
to the project ranged between $69-93 million (including both the LOC and MGF
components), far exceeding the project cost. Overall, the incremental exports associated
with the two components, i.e. LOC and MGF account for between 7% and 11% of the
US$ 0.9 billion total increase in exports recorded between 2007 and 201213.Efficiency in


13
     CEP Line of Credit & Matching Grants Impact Assessment Report, June 2013




                                                        23
the original project was based on qualitative description of benefits, including more
business-friendly regulatory environment, increased compliance of Moldova’s goods and
services with EU requirements and improved governance of public institutions, leading
ultimately to better public finances. Many project investments will have long-term
benefits by improving Moldovan’s enterprise sector’s competitiveness because they will
be more compliant with EU requirements (i.e., impact of the MSTQ strategy, improved
MSTQ capacity); lower costs due to the creation of a more business-friendly regulatory
environment. As mentioned above, the participation of enterprises under the MGF and
LOC helped boost exports by enterprises.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
Rating: Satisfactory

The PDO of the CEP was to aid the Government of Moldova in enhancing
competitiveness of enterprises through improvements in the business environment,
MSTQ system and services, business development services, and access to finance. The
project increased competitiveness by improving the business environment and reducing
compliance costs, providing more appropriate and internationally-compatible MSTQ
services to companies, providing investment and working capital finance during the
global financial crisis and with longer maturities than available in the domestic
commercial market, and increasing access to international quality certifications and
business development services. The sustainability of investments in the MSTQ system,
consulting sector, and the credit bureau was strengthened. The MGF and LOC had a
significant impact on export sales, as found in the impact assessment. The project
benefited from the sustained commitment of the Government, including MoE and MoF.
The objectives of the CEP were consistent with those outlined by the Government of
Moldova in the EGPRSP.

The overall outcome rating is satisfactory (see Table 1). The project remains highly
relevant to the country and for the World Bank’s assistance strategy aimed at boosting
competitiveness and investments and with the Government’s commitment to meet EU
standards. The project achieved the targets for facilitating business entry and operations
in the formal economy and strengthening the enterprise sector’s capability to increase
exports towards regional and EU markets to a substantial extent. Efficiency of achieving
the outcomes will also be greatly enhanced by the long-term benefits, especially those
related to the greater capacity of the upgraded metrology laboratories to provide more
services to companies.

                                        Table 1
                         Against Original    Against           Overall       Comments
                               PDO           Revised
                                               PDO
1     Rating             Marginally       Satisfactory                     Significant
                         Satisfactory                                      Improvement
2     Rating Value               4              5
3     Weight (%                14%             86%             100%



                                              24
      disbursed
      before/after
      PDO change)
4     Weighted value            0.6               4.3              4.9
      (2*3)
5     Final rating                                            Satisfactory   Early revision
      (rounded)                                                               preserves S
                                                                                 rating


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The Project’s impact on poverty is expected to be positive as it helped enterprises to
increase sales and exports. Although it is difficult to measure the benefits to the
population in general, the benefits will accrue indirectly. The enterprises that accessed
credit were able to invest, thus grow and create (direct and indirect) employment by
expanding their production or services.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

The project had a profound impact on the institutions that participated, which included
the, the Regulatory Reform Secretariat, relevant departments of the MOE and other
Ministries, bringing about fundamental institutional changes and strengthening
management, monitoring and impact assessment. In addition, the project supported the
strengthening of the MSTQ infrastructure and the institutional reorganization of the
National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and the National Institute of Standardization (NIS).
Technical assistance was in the form of knowledge transfers, on the job training and
study visits, which helped to strengthen staff capacity. These interventions were greatly
appreciated by these institutions. The project also assisted in the establishment of the
Credit Bureau, which became operational in 2011. The MGF component played an
important role in the enhancement of the enterprise sector, including the development and
consolidation of the Moldova consulting sector. Many enterprises that engaged these
consultants were pleased with their performance and value added and have indicated that
they are willing to use their own funds to procure more consultancies in the future. The
positive aspects brought about by the project which strengthened these institutions
included capacity building, staff training, public awareness campaigns, workshops,
seminars and new methods and approaches to problem solving.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The vast majority of beneficiaries had no or very little experience with consultants before
applying for MGF support, and the scheme was therefore instrumental in exposing them
to advisory services. In addition, several of the enterprises declared that they would have
been able (and willing) to pay the full cost of certification and/or consulting services, in
case MGF support was not available. The scheme also increased the membership of the


                                            25
enterprises in the CCI, as the enterprises were exposed to the range of valuable services and
information being offered by the Chamber.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops

As mentioned in section 3.2, an impact evaluation and survey of the MGF and LOC was
carried out. Overall, available evidence suggested that the MGF and the LOC
components were successful interventions. Both components were successful in
increasing exports and the development and consolidation of the consulting sector. These
achievements are mentioned above. Both components were implemented in a fairly
smooth manner and favorably influenced the activities of beneficiary firms. There were,
however, differences in terms of impact, with the MGF performing comparatively better
than the LOC. Some suggestions for the continuation of these interventions and possible
improvements (from the impact assessment report) are summarized below.

MGF Component. Results of the survey carried out as part of the impact assessment
suggested that there is a keen interest for the continuation of the scheme. In case this
option is pursued, some modifications in the design and operating modalities of the
intervention were deemed advisable. Recommendations included: (i) the broadening of
the range of services eligible for support, in order to better suit the needs of potential
beneficiaries; (ii) the tightening of eligibility criteria for beneficiaries, with more focus on
MSME and/or locally owned firms; (iii) the reduction of the co-financing rate from 50%
to 40% to enhance cost effectiveness; and (iv) the setting up of a more sophisticate
management information system, which inter alia could facilitate future M&E activities.

LOC Component. The findings of the impact assessment on opportunities for improving
the design of the LOC were more limited. As its ‘competitive positioning’ vis-à-vis other
credit lines essentially rests on the low interest rate, any change that might result in an
increase in the cost of funding was likely to drastically reduce the attractiveness of the
initiative in the eyes of banks and, therefore, to negatively impact on absorption.
Similarly, there appears to be limited scope for the simplification of procedural aspects,
as the procurement rules of World Bank-funded projects were intrinsically different from
those applicable to credit lines funded by institutions such as the IFC or the EBRD that
can directly interact with private banks. A possible area of improvement concerns the
eligibility criteria for potential borrowers, which could place a comparatively greater
emphasis on lending to MSME and/or locally-owned firms.




                                              26
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible

The risk to development outcome is considered negligible. The key investments of the
project were the following, and all are either completed or sustainable: (i) the metrology
laboratories were equipped and are operational; (ii) LOC and MGF were fully disbursed
and the results are positive with increased exports and repayments to the banks being
high; (iii) the Credit Bureau is operational; and (iv) the reform laws that were prepared
and funded under the project have been approved and adopted by the Government.
Although the government coalition did change during project implementation, the risk
that reforms would be de-railed did not materialize. Instead, regulatory reform continued
to be a central piece of the government’s reform program. Sustainability of the CEP’s
achievements has been further enhanced by the Government’s commitment to improve
Moldova’s business environment and to provide EU compatible MSTQ services, as well
as desire for future Bank involvement in this sector evidenced by the on-going
preparation of the proposed CEP II.




                                           27
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry

Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank’s performance regarding quality at entry was satisfactory. The Bank responded
in a timely manner to the need of the Moldovan economy by designing and implementing
this Project to enhance the competitiveness of the enterprise sector. The Bank was also
able to utilize the experience it gained from implementing similar types of projects
world-wide to ensure quality at entry in the project design and to build in simplified
implementing arrangements. Several alternatives were also considered in the design of
the project, but were rejected (see section 3.1(b)).

(b) Quality of Supervision

Rating: Satisfactory

Quality of supervision was good and project supervision was rated Satisfactory.
Supervision missions were carried out at least twice a year. The Bank team had a high
degree of continuity, had the proper skills mix and was adequately supported by staff
from the local office. The Bank team was proactive and was responsive to the
Government’s requests for change when required throughout project implementation, and
demonstrated flexibility and understanding in the use of project resources. As and when
required, the Bank assisted the counterparts to amend the Credit Agreement to provide
additional funding (during the financial crisis, see section 1.6) and other interventions to
ensure the achievement of development outcomes and to suit the changing external
environment and evolving country needs. With respect to the fiduciary requirements, the
performance was satisfactory with financial management, procurement and environment
activities under the project effectively implemented, with no major issues.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Overall, the Bank was proactive and responsive to the client’s needs from the design
stage through to project closing with close supervision and excellent support from the
country office. Based on the above, the overall Bank performance in ensuring quality at
entry and quality of supervision is rated as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

There was strong commitment from the Borrower for the CEP. The Borrower worked
closely with the Bank throughout project preparation, and negotiations and the
performance was satisfactory. The close collaboration demonstrated by the Borrower


                                            28
with the Bank during implementation was a primary factor in the overall success of the
Project. The Borrower was also proactive in working with the Bank to request additional
financing for the LOC to ensure adequate financing was made available to enterprises.
The Government was also willing to utilize project funds to procure technical expertise
lacking in-country. The Borrower complied with all covenants under the Credit
Agreement towards the achievement of the development outcomes. The Borrower
provided its contribution to project management support in order to enable a successful
close to the project during the grace period. The strong degree of ownership demonstrated
by the Government was another important factor leading to the successful
implementation of this Project.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The PIU as the implementing arm of the MoE was very effective in providing efficient
implementation, monitoring and reporting, allowing for better management and
implementation of the Project and facilitating the Bank’s supervision activities. The PIU
was staffed with qualified people, selected through a competitive process and adequately
compensated for their work. The participating PFIs, entity entrusted with implementing
the LOC (CLD), and entity entrusted with implementing the MGF (CCI) carried out their
activities successfully to achieve the development objectives of the project.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory. The Borrower has concluded
the Project successfully in a challenging political environment with financial constraints
due to the global financial crisis that took place during project implementation. The
challenging political environment included a major change in government in the 2009
and 2010 elections (when the Alliance for European Integration was elected and replaced
the Communists as the governing coalition), a period during which the country had only
an acting President (September 2009-March 2012), and another change in the ruling
coalition in February-May 2013. The implementing agency and the participating PFIs
and other agencies too implemented their activities successfully and effectively to
achieve the PDOs.




                                           29
6. Lessons Learned

1.      The Project’s satisfactory implementation benefited significantly from the high
degree of borrower’s ownership of the program. In addition, the Borrower was willing to
utilize project funds to procure technical assistance lacking in-country to ensure that the
services of the highest quality were provided to support the project. Given the sustained
high degree of borrower’s ownership of and commitment to the program, even a very
complex and ambitious program can be implemented successfully.

2.      The selection of two professional organizations (CCI and CLD) to administer the
MGF and the LOC went a long way to ensure their successful implementation. In most
projects, these functions are carried out either by a commercial bank or a unit within the
Central Bank created for project purposes or by the PIU, which is normally overburdened
with overall project implementation and do not have the time or the capacity to
effectively administer such complex components. Outsourcing such time consuming and
complex components to qualified professional organizations could ensure successful and
effective implementation, as was the case under the CEP. The Government must be
commended for utilizing project funds to hire such competent agencies.

3.       Providing equipment to the metrology laboratories – one of the major components
– was completed with an overall delay of about 12 months. The project design should
have taken into consideration the complexity and time required in procuring such
complex machinery which was to be installed in existing refurbished buildings. The
delays in completing these activities were caused by highly technical bidding and review
processes for sophisticated, high precision metrological equipment and the need for re-
tendering. This was due to the lack of in-house technical expertise to carry put these
activities. However, this shortcoming was mitigated by the PIU by hiring an international
expert who assisted in concluding the second tender for equipment successfully. Complex
metrology equipment needs stringent environment conditions to operate effectively. The
procurement of the machinery had to be postponed in order to refurbish the existing
laboratories which fell behind schedule. It is recommended that the Bank, in
collaboration with the counterparts, invest more time in planning complex project
activities (such as high precision metrological instruments and the facilities to house
them), involving relevant technical experts and allowing for an adequate timeframe, to
avoid delays that were experienced under this project.

4.      While the Matching Grants Facility (MGF) component was successful overall, the
component could have had a greater impact if it were not for constraints on timelines
presented by the way in which the MGF Administrator's (Chamber of Commerce and
Industry) contract was handled. The MGF administrator's contract was renewed annually,
usually by August, and its contract required it to finalize activities by the end of May in
order to submit its final report in June. This meant that grant cycles (award and payment
to companies) were on an annual basis (August-May). The results-based nature of the
grant meant that the company had to demonstrate results in order for the matching portion
of the grant to be paid. Due to the administrative requirements that limited the grant
cycle to only approximately 10 months, the companies were under a substantial time



                                            30
constraint, especially when the grant was funding an international quality certification
(which required a consultant analysis, implementation of changes, and verification of
those changes by a certification body). For the final year of the CEP, the World Bank
and PIU agreed that the matching component of these grants should be paid to all
companies that demonstrate results by June 2013. The Bank also agreed to extend the
deadline for payments to companies to mid-June 2013, as opposed to the end of May as
in the 2012 cycle. In the design of Matching Grant components for future projects, it
would be helpful to allow for matching grant facility to operate on an ongoing basis
instead of having yearly, "artificial" cut-offs driven by administrative considerations as
was the case under the CEP.

5.      The main essential components for a successful PSD project which focuses on
SMEs in a country the size of Moldova can be considered to have: (i) proper regulatory
reforms for a better business environment and ease of doing business; (ii) upgrading of
the MSTQ systems to gain access to foreign markets and boosting competitiveness; and
(iii) having access to finance and technology services. Addressing these issues in a
combined manner was expected to have a total effect greater than the added effect of
each individual component due to the existence of synergies among project components.
These elements were present in the project design for the CEP. However, the successful
implementation of such complex components involving technical assistance and complex
procurement activities (for MSTQ equipment) take time, more than the three and a half
years that was anticipated at appraisal for the CEP. Adequate time needs to be built in for
implementation of such operations, especially where the technical capacity of the
counterparts are low.

6.      A well-functioning implementation unit, staffed with competent and committed
people and fairly remunerated is essential for a successful implementation of a multi-
component and a complex project, such as this. Under the CEP, such a unit was
established and fully supported by the MoE, which led to the successful implementation
of the project and achievement of its PDOs.

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
None

(b) Cofinanciers

N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

N/A




                                            31
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)
                                                     Actual/Latest
                                  Appraisal Estimate                        Percentage of
           Components                                Estimate (USD
                                   (USD millions)                            Appraisal
                                                        millions)
Regulatory Component                       2.20              2.28               104
MSTQ Component                             9.60              8.60                90
Matching Grant Scheme                      1.40              2.94               210
Facilitation to Access to Finance          0.30              0.01                 3
Line of Credit Facility                                     22.50
Implementation Support                     0.50              0.97               194
Un-Allocated                               0.30

            Total Project Costs          14.30              38.30               268
     Total Financing Required            14.30              38.30


(b) Financing
                                                   Appraisal Actual/Latest
                                       Type of     Estimate    Estimate Percentage of
         Source of Funds
                                     Cofinancing    (USD        (USD       Appraisal
                                                   millions)   millions)
International Development
                                       Credit        4.90           28.90          590
Association (IDA)
 IDA Grant                              Grant        4.90           4.90           100
 JAPAN: Ministry of Finance - PHRD
                                        Grant        4.50           4.50           100
Grants




                                           32
Annex 2. Outputs by Component (from the Borrower’s Completion Report)

BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT IMPROVEMENT

The regulatory reform initiative comprised a number of regulatory and institutional
changes aimed at creating a better business environment for the country’s private s ector.
The new Regulatory Reform Strategy 2013-2020 developed with the CEP assistance built
on and complemented previous efforts, providing a conceptual and management
framework for all efforts designed to improve the business environment and was
approved by the Government in July 2013. The new Strategy will help Government’s
efforts in streamlining the legislative process and ensuring the low cost/low risk principle
in promoting new legislation, considering its impact on both the State and the private
sector. The activities are shown in Table 1.

The Government started the review of laws in accordance with the provisions of the so-
called Guillotine 2 law, which was implemented with the support of the CEP during
August 2006 – January 2008 resulting in major simplifications in the legal framework for
business entry and operations. In addition, the implementation of the Regulatory Impact
Assessment (RIA) was also an important milestone. The project assisted the Government
in development and implementation of the RIA methodology, which became mandatory
for preparation of all new regulatory acts affecting business operations, with the CEP
supporting capacity building activities in various line ministries, thus creating a
standardized consultation mechanism within the Government and with business. In total
1,120 government officials (see Table 11) and sector experts were trained in Regulatory
Impact Assessment during the project lifetime. The priorities for the RIA secretariat was
to focus on ensuring that new laws and regulations met modern regulatory standards
through the application of adequate impact assessments. The six consultants, employed
under the CEP in coordination with the Ministry of Economy offered qualified legal
expertise that covered basically all regulatory domains. Between 2007 and 2009 the
project supported a special regulatory reform unit in the Parliament and a Special
Commission on the optimization of the regulatory framework for entrepreneurship (the
Regulatory Reform Commission). The above-mentioned interventions had a positive
impact on the business environment which was confirmed by the outcomes of annual
Cost of Doing Business” surveys carried out annually during the project lifetime.

                     Table I. Regulatory Reform Working Group Activity
                                                                             2013
         Year           2006   2007   2008   2009   2010    2011   2012       1st     Total
                                                                           semester
Meetings of the
                         46     52     44     36     49      37     30        13       307
Working Group
Examined:
Draft Laws
                         42     54     40     75     47      29     22        6        315
Draft Governmental
decisions                74    136     87     43     48      37     32        8        465



                                             33
Draft of normative acts
                              159     53    18        10         7         9           3         10         269
Regulatory Impact
                               -       -    73        99        137        89      75            32         505
Assessments
Total examined:               275     243   218      227        239       164      132           56
Source: Ministry of Economy

During the project implementation, following the changes in the Government, the MoE was given
additional responsibilities, when the Ministry of Industry and Infrastructure and the
Standardization and the Metrology Service were dissolved. In addition, the responsibilities of the
Office of the Deputy Prime Minister also changed, requiring additional expertise in several areas
such as macroeconomics, tax policy, energy and infrastructure, trade and quality infrastructure,
structural reforms and non-banking financial sector, telecommunication and IT. At the request of
the MoE and for enhancing the Regulatory Reform Strategy, the Project assisted the Deputy
Prime Minister / Minister of Economy to obtain the expertise in these areas.
            Table II. Results indicators framework, Regulatory reform component
                                                                      End of project       End of project
                          Indicator                   Baseline
                                                                         target              progress
        Number of inspections per year per firm            18              12                   3,6
        Number of government officials and
                                                           0              1.100                1.120
        experts trained in RIA (cumulative)
        Decrease in regulatory compliance costs
        for enterprises (as measured by
                                                           17              10                  10.7
        management time spent on meeting
        regulatory requirements), %
         Source: Ministry of Economy & CODB survey

MODERNIZATION OF MSTQ SYSTEM

Under this component, the project has supported the institutional reform, legal reform and
improvement of the MSTQ infrastructure. Substantial results have been achieved. As part
of the WTO commitments regarding MSTQ system, Government approved short to
medium term (2007-2020) MSTQ Strategy with detailed action plan for each field of
quality infrastructure. The project helped develop and promote new legislation in line
with international best practices as follows: (i) The Law on Technical Regulations, which
foresees the activity and agenda of the technical committees; (ii) Law on Standardization;
(iii) Law on Metrology: and (iv) The new Law on Accreditation, were all approved. The
institutional reorganization of NISM into the National Institute of Metrology (NIM) and
National Institute of Standardization (NIS) has been completed. The separation will
exclude the existing conflict of interest due to unclear legal structure of (and relationship
between) these entities and will create adequate capacity to respond to the current
economic needs. The government is also expected to establish a State owned Enterprise
that will provide metrology services across the spectrum, to build the market of service
providers and ensure there is some competition in all areas of metrology.
During the last six years under the project, the national MSTQ system made significant
steps ahead for the recognition at the European level. For instance, National
Accreditation Body (NAB) signed an Associate Membership Agreement with the
European co-operation for Accreditation (EA), while the NISM due to the know-how
transfers and modern equipment furnished under the CEP applied for the inter-


                                                     34
comparisons results for publishing the Calibration and Measurement Capabilities tables
(CMC) in the Bureau International des Poids et Mesures (BIPM) key comparison
database. NISM's supported by Dutch Metrology Institute implemented a quality
management system within metrology laboratories and undertook peer review performed
by COOMET and was awarded the ISO/CEI 17025 certificate. NISM (now NIM) already
has more than 10 results of inter laboratory comparisons in the field of flow and
temperature.
The project modernized and renovated nine national metrological and testing laboratories
in Chisinau and two in regional metrology center in the Balti district. The first delivery of
equipment was made at the end of 2007, one year and a half after the beginning of the
project. The main reason for delays was due to the delays in the Governments
contribution for the renovation of the NISM premises.
Beside laboratory equipment, the CEP provided IT equipment like servers for
information storage, computers, etc. for NISM, MOLDAC and Agency for Consumer
Protection, and communication equipment for training rooms of MOLDAC and NIS.
Training was also provided to over 145 staff of these institutions to utilize the newly
acquired equipment.
In order to strengthen the capacity and improve efficiency and visibility of the newly
established National Standardization Institute (NIS) the Project assisted in development
of Standards Repository Software, which was an important communication tool between
NIS and industry, business society, governmental agencies, potential investors, other
stakeholders etc.
 The Project supported the development of institutional capacity of MOLDAC
(accreditation) by exchange of experience and good practices in accreditation field with
other international institutions, including study visits and training to similar institutions in
Romania, Czech Republic, Poland, Sweden, Germany, Turkey, etc. In addition, the
project supported an integrated information system at MOLDAC to meet ISO standards.
One of the important elements of the EU– Moldova Action Plan is, inter alia,
harmonization of the legislation related to quality infrastructure and adoption of EU
standards was the transposition of EU Directives in strategic fields of the national
economy. During the last year of CEP implementation the MOE received technical
assistance for the elaboration of six EU Directives as well adjustment of legal and
normative framework to subject Directives and EU requirements. The draft legislation to
transpose the six EU directives is awaiting first discussion in government.
Table 111 below summarizes the results framework under this component of the project,
indicating the baseline, end of project target and final result, as of 30.06.3013.
                  Table III. Results indicators framework, MSTQ component
                                                             End of           End of
                       Indicator                 Baseline    project          project
                                                             target          progress
       Number of EU compatible standards
                                                      133      1,700           5,438
       adopted (cumulative)
       Number of accredited testing facilities
                                                      36       170             117
       available to enterprises (cumulative)


                                                 35
      Number of calibration services provided
                                                            5        1,000   1,300
      by NISM to enterprises (annual)
      Number of international certifications
      received by Moldovan enterprises                     70        280     338
      (cumulative)
       Source: National Institute of Standardization and Metrology


MATCHING GRANTS FACILITY
This component helped in promoting the use of MSTQ services by enterprises, especially
SMEs, through the use of the Matching Grants Facility (MGF), to strengthen the
competitiveness of Moldovan companies, both to increase exports and secure their
domestic market position by improving quality of their products and services. The MGF
was administered by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Moldova (CCI), which
was selected by the PIU through a tender. The CCI was responsible for promoting the
scheme in business circles, for the management of the application and selection process as
well as for the management of administrative aspects related to the payment of the MGF
contribution.
The MGF provided financial support on a matching basis (50%) to enterprises interested
in using technical assistance and consulting services to upgrade their operations. The
MGF was subdivided into two sub-components, namely: (i) the Quality Certification sub-
component, providing financial support to firms seeking to obtain international quality
certifications (i.e. ISO 9001, ISO 22000, etc.) and (ii) the Business Advisory Services
(BAS) sub-component, supporting firms interested in obtaining advisory and training
services (e.g. business plans, feasibility studies, etc.). Over the 2006 – 2013 period, the
CCI received applications from over 550 enterprises. As of June 2013, around 380
enterprises had received support from the MGF, of which 234 for Quality Certification,
125 for BAS and 21 for both sub-components. The average value of MGF grants was
about US$ 6,000, with individual values ranging from less than US$ 1000 up to US$
10,000 and little difference between the two sub-components. The MGF provided support
to enterprises active in all sectors, with a concentration in manufacturing (38% of the
total), services (26%) and commerce (18%). Almost 80% of beneficiaries were based in
Chisinau, with firms located in Moldova’s Northern and Central regions accounting for,
respectively, 9% and 8% of the total. The MGF mostly supported micro, small and
medium enterprises but the presence of large enterprises is also not negligible (about 25%
of the total, with a higher share for the Quality Certification sub-component).
MGF had a positive impact on participating enterprises. In the case of the Quality
Certification sub-component, MGF support was mostly used to obtain ISO 9001
certification and, to a much lesser degree, food safety-related certifications (ISO 22000).
In the case of the BAS sub-component, funding was mainly used for market studies,
feasibility studies and management information systems. Interventions co-financed by
MGF appear to have resulted in a number of positive effects. More than three quarters of
the beneficiaries reported improvements in organizational effectiveness, technical
efficiency, and managerial skills as well as an increased credibility and reputation vis-à-
vis clients and suppliers. Overall, the influence appears to be stronger in the base of firms
benefitting from the Quality Certification sub-component. To some extent this is linked
to the fact that, in the case of the BAS sub-component, several measures deriving from


                                                      36
the advice received have been only partly implemented, and therefore have not yet
deployed their effects.
MGF-funded activities allowed several beneficiaries to diversify their product mix, and, in
turn, to enter new market segments: over half of the interviewees reported of ‘some impact’
in this respect. The certification obtained through the co-financing allowed, for instance,
the participation in public and private tenders for several of the firms interviewed. In other
cases, quality standards were mandatory requirements to access foreign markets – and in
particular EU countries. Market studies and business plans were identified as major
contributor in the development of new products and services, as well as for activities such
as re-branding and on-line orders.
The MGF component played an important role in the development and consolidation of
the consulting services sector as well. Since the launch of the MGF the number of service
providers has increased significantly, and this was coupled with an improvement in the
quality of services provided. Even more importantly, the MGF greatly contributed to
increase the awareness of the benefits of professional advisory services in the business
community, thereby stimulating a spontaneous demand for consulting services.
As one of the objective of the MGF was aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of
Moldovan companies to increase exports, the impact assessment of this component
performed by an independent consulting firm hired under CEP, indicated that Moldova’s
export sales displayed an oscillating trend, with a growth in 2008, a decline in 2009, a
recovery in 2010 and 2011, and another drop in 2012. Overall, in 2012, exports stood at
US$ 2.2 billion compared with US$ 1.3 billion in 2007. Based on the results of the
counterfactual impact assessment, the value of incremental exports attributable to the
participation in the MGF can be estimated in the range of US$ 55 to 73 million14.
Table IV below summarizes the results framework under this component of the project, indicating
the baseline, end of project target and final result, as of 30.06.3013.


                Table IV. Results indicators framework, Matching Grants component
                                                                           End of      End of
                            Indicator                      Baseline        project     project
                                                                           target     progress
           Number of matching grants disbursed
                                                               0                460     495
           (cumulative)
           Number of matching grants disbursed for
           international certifications of quality             70               210     249
           (cumulative)
           Number of matching grants disbursed for
                                                               0                250     246
           business development (cumulative)
            Source: Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Moldova




14
     CEP Line of Credit & Matching Grants Impact Assessment Report, June 2013




                                                        37
ACCESS TO FINANCE
A privately-owned Credit Bureau became operational in 2011. The Credit Bureau was
licensed and supervised by the National Commission on Financial Market (NCFM), and
currently includes information from banks and two leasing companies. Reporting is
voluntary, and requires prior consent of the borrower. To foster the use of the bureau,
NBM has put in place differentiated provisioning rules of 2 percent for borrowers that are
already covered by the Credit Bureau and have a clean record, and 30 percent for those
on whom no information is available from the Credit Bureau or other contractual
obligations, or for those who did not give consent to have their information reported to
the Credit Bureau. The vast majority of individual clients have already given consent, but
not all enterprises have done so, either because their loans were approved prior to the
launch of the Credit Bureau, or due to performance and indebtedness concerns. A legal
amendment to mandate reporting of all commercial loans to the Credit Bureau is
currently under discussion. This would help increase the reliability of information on
legal entities.

The existence of the Credit Bureau has already helped establish a credit history for most
borrowers, which should particularly benefit micro- and small companies seeking credit.
The bureau currently stores data on 130,000 borrowers and 250,000 loans, compared to
131,000 active borrowers and 148,000 active loans in the banking system at the end of
2012. An estimated 7000 loans are with enterprises; the rest is with individuals (likely
also some microenterprises). Despite its short existence, the data provided by the Credit
Bureau is very comprehensive, and the hit ratio stood at 72 percent in the last quarter of
2012. This is a significant achievement, given the limited time frame. The Credit Bureau
has already helped clients establish a credit history, and made the actual level of bank
debt transparent. The information is stored for seven years, and borrowers have a right to
verify the data. The Doing Business Credit Information index now assigns 4 out of 6
points to Moldova.

LINE OF CREDIT
The LOC component provides funding to banks for on-lending to export-oriented
enterprises in support of their working capital and investment financing needs. It was
administered by the Credit Line Directorate (CLD), an autonomous structure within the
Ministry of Finance, entrusted with the management of various internationally-funded
credit lines.
Launched in 2009 with a total funding of US$ 22.5 million, the LOC was fully disbursed
during 2012 and it is currently managed as a revolving fund by the CLD, as repayments
are received. Investment loans were capped at € 800,000, while working capital loans
could not exceed € 500,000. Maximum maturities were eight years for investment loans
and four years for working capital operations. Loans could be denominated in MDL or in
foreign currency, Euros or US$. Interest rates varied depending upon the currency and
were adjusted every six months: in the case of foreign currency loans, rates were
typically between 100 and 200 basis points lower than those charged by banks on loans
funded with their own resources. The LOC saw the involvement of six commercial
banks: (i) MoldovaAgroindbank; (i) Victoriabank; (iii) Banca Sociala; (iv)


                                           38
Moldindconbank; (v) Energbank and (vi) Mobiabank. As of end 2012, a total of 74 loans
had been disbursed to 60 enterprises, with an average of about US$ 400,000 per loan. The
majority of loans fell in the US$ 100,000 - 500,000 range, while a handful number of
loans exceeded US$ 800,000 and a similar number had a very small size, below
US$ 50,000.
Nearly half of LOC beneficiaries were active in agri-business, with a strong presence of
wine producers and other food processors. About half of LOC borrowers were based in
Chisinau, about quarter located in the Central Region, with the rest being subdivided
between the Northern and Southern regions. While the majority of beneficiaries fell
within the definition of SME, more than one third was large enterprises, sometimes with
turnovers well in excess of US$ 10 million.

The most active commercial banks were Moldova Agroindbank with 27 sub-projects,
representing 46% from the total number of sub-projects approved and 50% from the total
amount approved by the CLD for CEP financing, followed by Victoriabank with 18 Sub-
projects, or 31% from the total number of sub-projects and 30% from the total amount
approved.

Almost 67% of the sub-loans amounts were projects solicited to be financed in EURO,
due to the import of equipment and partially raw materials imported from European
countries, followed by the sub-loans requested in USD (22%) and about 11% of the LOC
amount was disbursed in MDL. Investment loan accounted for about 37%, while working
capital accounted for 63% of the total loans disbursed.

The majority of LOC beneficiaries reported an improvement in key performance
indicators, such as employment, exports and (especially) turnover. However, access to
LOC loans appears to explain only part of the positive developments. The influence is
comparatively greater in the case of turnover, with about 40% of beneficiaries reporting a
‘significant’ impact, compared with 30% indicating a ‘limited’ impact and a similar share
reporting no impact or unable to provide an answer. In the case of employment, 37% of
respondents report a ‘significant’ impact, compared with a similar share indicating no
appreciable influence.

In terms of impact the LOC had on export figures, according the assessment performed
by an independent Consulting firm, the value of incremental exports attributable to the
participation in the LOC was estimated in the order of US$ 14 to 20 million15.

Overall, the incremental exports associated with the two components, i.e. LOC and MGF
account for between 7% and 11% of the US$ 0.9 billion total increase in exports recorded
between 2007 and 201216.




15
     CEP Line of Credit & Matching Grants Impact Assessment Report, June 2013
16
     Ibid.




                                                        39
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

No economic or financial analysis (ROR) was carried out for the project. Economic
benefits of the project was expected to be achieved as a consequence of increased
competitiveness and, therefore, productivity an increased incomes of the individual
enterprises and the whole economy of Moldova. These benefits include lower transaction
costs of doing business due to the improvement in the business environment. It was also
expected that improved business climate and bigger transparency should also bring
significant benefits of increased FDI, which was critical for a small open economy with
inexpensive but well educated labor force. However, it has not been possible to quantify
the increase in FDI due to the project. The core components of the project: improved
MSTQ capacity and matching grant facility and the LOC have generated direct and
indirect financial revenues to the participating commercial entities and to the budget.
Improved MSTQ standards and increased number of international quality standards
owned by Moldovan producers have strengthened the position of Moldovan products in
international markets. This was confirmed by the survey carried out which attributed
export sales of US$60-90 million as a result of the CEP.




                                          40
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members
                                                                       Responsibility/
           Names                         Title                Unit
                                                                         Specialty
Lending
Anarkan Akerova           Counsel                            LEGCF
Victor Burunsus           Private Sector Development Spe     ECSF1
Alexandru Cojocaru        Economist                          ECSP3
Gregory T. Jedrzejczak    Lead Private Sector Developmen     ECSF2
Vitaly Kazakov            Financial Management Specialis     ECSOQ
Arben Maho                Procurement Specialist             ECSO2
Ekaterina Mikhaylova      Sr Mining Spec.                    SEGM2
Anna Sukiasyan            Resource Management Officer        AFTRM
Supervision/ICR
Fatiha Amar               Program Assistant                  MNSTI
Irina Astrakhan           Sector Manager                     AFTFE
S. Brajovic-Bratanovic    Consultant                         FFIMS
Victor Burunsus           Private Sector Development Spec.   ECSF1
Andrei Busuioc            Sr Financial Management Spec.      ECCAT
Alexandru Cojocaru        Economist                          ECSP3
Edward Daoud              Consultant                         GPOBA
Daria Goldstein           Senior Counsel                     LEGLE
Gregory T. Jedrzejczak    Lead Private Sector Development.   ECSF2
Arben Maho                Procurement Specialist             ECSO2
Martin Melecky            Sr Financial Sector Spec.          ECSPF
Ekaterina Mikhaylova      Sr Mining Spec.                    SEGM2
Alexander Pankov          Country Sector Coordinator         ECSPF
Melissa Rekas             Private Sector Development Spec.   ECSF1
Ghenadie Cotelnic         Consultant                         ECSF1


(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle                                      USD Thousands (including
                                     No. of staff weeks
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY05                                         22                      120.42
  FY06                                         13                       54.83
                          Total:
Supervision/ICR
  FY06                                         26                       31.80
  FY07                                         57                       80.54
  FY08                                         25                       82.32



                                          41
 FY09                                               41   134.27
 FY10                                               51   193.68
 FY11                                               18    99.60
 FY12                                               27    97.10
 FY13                                               21    70.18
 FY14                                                7    26.18
                               Total:

Includes budget for the additional financing




                                               42
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

No beneficiary survey was carried out. However, an Impact Assessment of the CEP
Matching Grants and Line of Credit Components was carried out.
The assessment provided an evaluation of two key components of the Competitiveness
Enhancement Project (CEP or “the Project”), namely the Matching Grant Facility (MGF) and the
Line of Credit (LOC) components. However, the exercise also extended to other aspects, with a
review of implementation arrangements, an analysis of additionality, and the assessment of
economy-wide effects.

The Reports built upon three main elements, namely: (i) a survey of enterprises receiving support
under the two components, (ii) a counterfactual impact assessment exercise, and (iii) a series of
in-depth interviews. The survey covered a sample of 188 enterprises, of which 147 receiving
support under the MGF and 57 benefitting under the LOC (with 16 enterprises benefitting from
both components). The counterfactual impact assessment involved the application of various
econometric techniques analysis to a set of data provided by the National Statistical Office and by
the Customs. In-depth interviews concerned more than 20 entities involved in project
implementation and other stakeholders (financial institutions, donors, providers of business
development services, etc.).

Impact on Participating Enterprises - MGF Component

Influence on Beneficiaries’ Activities. In the case of the Quality Certification sub-component,
MGF support was mostly used to obtain ISO 9001 certification and, to a much lesser degree, food
safety-related certifications (ISO 22000 and HACC). In the case of the BAS sub-component,
funding was mainly used for market studies, feasibility studies and management information
systems. Interventions co-financed by MGF appear to have resulted in a number of positive
effects. More than three quarters of the beneficiaries interviewed report improvements in
organizational effectiveness, technical efficiency, and managerial skills as well as an increased
credibility and reputation vis-à-vis clients and suppliers. According to about half of the firms,
participation in the scheme also had positive effects in improving the product mix and in
accessing new markets. Instead, the program did not have any appreciable influence on the access
to finance, with only a handful of firms reporting some progress. Overall, the influence appears to
be stronger in the base of firms benefitting from the Quality Certification sub-component. To
some extent this is linked to the fact that, in the case of the BAS sub-component, several
measures deriving from the advice received have been only partly implemented, and therefore
have not (yet) deployed their effects.

Impact on Performance – Counterfactual Analysis. The impact of MGF was assessed by
comparing the results achieved by beneficiary firms with those achieved by a ‘control group’
consisting of firms that had applied for support but in the end did not participate in the scheme.
The exercise assessed the impact over a three year period, comparing the results achieved in the
year preceding the application with those achieved two years later, using a variety of econometric
techniques. The analysis detected a positive and statistically significant impact on export sales: in
fact, in the two years subsequent to the application, MGF beneficiaries exported on average
between MDL 9 to 12 million more than their peers in the ‘control group’. The ana lysis also
detected a positive relationship between MGF support and turnover. However, in this case the
degree of statistical significance is much lower, below the levels typically considered acceptable
for this type of analyses. No conclusive results were achieved regarding the other variables
analyzed, i.e. employment, investment, productivity, value added, and operating profits. Similar



                                                 43
results were achieved for the sub-set of firms receiving support under the Quality Certification
sub-component, while no similar analysis could be carried out for beneficiaries of the BAS sub-
component, due to the limited number of observations.

Impact of Performance – Self Assessment. Results from the counterfactual analysis are broadly
in line with the ‘perceived’ impact self reported by the sample of MGF beneficiaries interviewed,
although there are some differences. In the case of exports, a significant impact (i.e. ‘high impact’
or ‘some impact’) is reported by more than 50% of firms actually active in export markets .
However, the share declines to a much less impressive 22% when the whole sample (i.e.
including non exporters) is considered. The perceived influence is stronger in the case of turnover,
with almost 70% of interviewees reporting a significant impact, compared with little more than
10% reporting no impact or unable to answer. Instead, MGF-funded activities appear to have had
much less influence on employment, with 56% of interviewees reporting ‘no impact’ compared
with less than 40% indicating a significant impact.

Impact on Participating Enterprises – LOC Component

Influence on Beneficiaries’ Activities. Two thirds of LOC borrowers received working capital
loans, one fifth got investment loans, and the rest obtained both types of loans. In line with the
prevalence of working capital financing, three quarters of interviewees indicate that LOC loans
played an important role in the purchase of raw materials and other inputs (which could be bought
in larger quantities and/or at the most appropriate time) and in reducing delays in payment to
suppliers. To a lesser degree, loan proceeds were also used to support the entry in new markets or
market segments, to expand production capacity and/or modernize existing facilities (in the case
of investment loans) and to extend more favorable payment conditions to clients. Instead, little
influence is reported regarding the development of new products.

Impact on Performance. The majority of LOC beneficiaries report an improvement in key
performance indicators, such as employment, exports and (especially) turnover. However, access
to LOC loans appears to explain only part of the positive developments. The influence is
comparatively greater in the case of turnover, with about 40% of beneficiaries reporting a
‘significant’ impact, compared with 30% indicating a ‘limited’ impact and a similar share
reporting no impact or unable to provide an answer. In the case of employment, 37% of
respondents report a ‘significant’ impact, compared with a similar share indicating no apprecia ble
influence. Somewhat strikingly, given the export-orientation of the scheme, only 31% of LOC
beneficiaries report a significant impact on export sales, compared with 28% indicating a limited
impact and 21% reporting no impact (with the rest being unable to provide an assessment).

Assessment of Economy-wide Effects

Influence on Export Sales. Over the 2007 – 2012 period, Moldova’s export sales displayed an
oscillating trend, with a grow in 2008, a decline in 2009, a recovery in 2010 and 2011, and
another drop in 2012. Overall, in 2012 exports stood at US$ 2.2 billion, compared with US$ 1.3
billion in 2007. Based on the results of the counterfactual impact assessment, the value of
incremental exports attributable to the participation in the MGF can be estimated in the range of
US$ 55 to 73 million. The corresponding value for the LOC component is lower, in the order of
US$ 14 to 20 million. Overall, the incremental exports associated with the two components
account for between 7% and 11% of the US$ 0.9 billion total increase in exports recorded
between 2007 and 2012.




                                                44
Influence on the Market for Consulting Services. The MGF component played an important
role in the development and consolidation of the consulting services sector. Since the launch of
the MGF the number of service providers has increased significantly, and this was coupled with
an improvement in the quality of services provided. Even more importantly, the MGF greatly
contributed to increase the awareness of the benefits of professional advisory services in the
business community, thereby stimulating a spontaneous demand for consulting services. Indeed,
while only 7% of MGF beneficiaries made frequent use of consultancy services before enrolling
in the scheme, more than two thirds express their intention to purchase advisory services with
their own money in the near future.

Influence on the Financial Sector. The LOC exerted a limited influence on the financial sector.
The possibility of accessing long term resources at a reasonable cost was obviously appreciated
by participating banks, but this did not lead to major changes in their operating modalities. Some
banks reported being able to offer loans with a longer maturity, at least in the case of working
capital loans, but none appear to have developed specific products in connection with access to
LOC funding. In addition, most of the sub-loans went to well established, traditional clients and
no significant contribution in broadening access to finance can be noticed.

Assessment of Implementation Arrangements

MGF Component. The CCI was quite effective in disseminating information about the
opportunities offered by the scheme: about three quarters of the firms interviewed learned about
MGF through the CCI, either directly or indirectly (i.e. through the CCI website or the
participation in promotional event organized by the CCI). Even more importantly, less than 50%
of beneficiaries were CCI members at the time of the application, a clear indication that
promotional efforts were able to reach out a wide range of businesses. The MGF application
process was quite simple and this was generally highly appreciated by beneficiaries, with more
than 80% of firms providing a positive assessment of the various procedural aspects. A
marginally less positive assessment is voiced regarding the reimbursement process (i.e.
documentation to be submitted and time required to get the money), but even in this case outright
negative views concern less than 10% of respondents. Overall, the near totality of MGF
beneficiaries expressed a positive or very positive assessment of MGF implementation
arrangements, with one single interviewee holding a neutral view.

LOC Component. Views about procedural aspects are generally positive, although with some
qualifications. The near totality of interviewees appreciate the information received about the
scheme and the assistance extended by banks’ personnel and a solid majority provides a positive
assessment regarding the loan application process. Instead, views are much more divided
regarding the time required for loan approvals, with only 40% of interviews providing a positive
assessment, the rest being equally subdivided between neutral and negative opinions. The
existence of delays in the approval process was also frequently mentioned by participating banks,
although the situation improved over time. However, once approved, the loans were usually
disbursed fairly rapidly. Almost half of LOC beneficiaries received monitoring visits from the
CLD and the assessment was invariably positive. Overall, 88% of LOC borrowers provide a
positive or very positive assessment, the rest holding a negative or, more often, neutral view.

Assessment of Additionality

MGF Component. The level of additionality of MGF support appears to be quite high. The vast
majority of beneficiaries had no or very little experience with consultants before applying for
MGF support and the scheme was therefore instrumental in exposing them to advisory services.


                                               45
In addition, only half of the interviewees declared that they would have been able (and willing) to
pay the full cost of certification and/or consulting services, in case MGF support was not available.
The level of additionality is higher in the case of the BAS sub-component (only 40% would have
been able to implement the initiatives on their own), due to the prevalence of micro and small firms
with limited financial means. The opposite holds true in the case of the Quality Certification sub-
component, where the higher share of well established companies obviously translates into a higher
ability to pay for consulting services.

LOC Component. The LOC component displays a lower level of additionality. All beneficiaries
already had experience in dealing with banks and the vast majority did not have major problems
in accessing bank lending in the past: about 80% of interviewees got one or more loans in three
years before applying for LOC financing and those who did not have any loan, usually did not
apply as they had other sources of funding. All in all, only few LOC borrowers can be regarded as
truly ‘finance constrained’. The limited additionality is confirmed by the fact that the interest rate
is almost unanimously regarded as the most important advantage of the LOC, while other features
(e.g. multi-currency lending, ability to finance working capital, longer maturity compared to
standard loans available in the market) are scarcely mentioned.

Comparison with Other Similar Programs

Comparison of MGF with Other Support Schemes. About one fifth of interviewees were in
the position to compare the MGF with another support scheme, the EBRD-funded BAS program.
Launched in 2005, the EBRD-BAS also provides financial support to firms interested in using
consulting and advisory services, but its operating modalities present some differences compared
with the MGF (i.e. focus on MSME only, higher co-financing rate – 75% compared with 50% for
MGF, no assistance provided in the area of quality certification). For most of the aspects
considered in the comparison, the views expressed by interviewees are in favor of the MGF,
although in several cases (e.g. eligibility criteria, assistance provided to applicants, etc.) a
significant share of respondents considers the two programs as broadly equivalent. The only two
aspects for which the EBRD-BAS receives a more positive assessment are (i) the nature of
activities eligible for co-financing (but the majority of respondents are neutral on unable to pass
an informed judgment), and (ii) unsurprisingly, the co-financing rate.

Comparison of LOC with Other Credit Lines. About one third of interviewees were able to
compare the LOC with other donor/IFI-funded credit channeled through Moldovan banks. The
low interest rate and the fast disbursement procedures emerge as the main positive features of the
LOC, with positive assessments outnumbering opposite views by 5 to 1. Instead, the loan
application process and the time required for loan approval are perceived as the main ‘problem
areas’, with a clear majority of interviewees expressing a preference for other credit lines. In the
case of the other aspects considered in the comparison, such as the maximum size and maturity of
loans and the possibility of receiving financing in various currencies, views are more divided
(with an equal number of interviewees favoring the LOC or other credit lines) or neutral.

Overall, available evidence suggests that the MGF and the LOC components were successful
interventions. Both components were implemented in a fairly smooth manner and favorably
influenced the activities of beneficiary firms.




                                                 46
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)

N/A




                                   47
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The final draft ICR was submitted to the Borrower for their comments. They provided
only minor comments on some results indicators, and their comments have been
incorporated into the final version of the ICR.

Below is a summary of the Borrower’s comments, from their ICR. The full Borrower’s
ICR is in the project files.

WORLD BANK PERFORMANCE
The Ministry of Economy is highly satisfied with the Bank's involvement during the preparation,
implementation and supervision stages over the project implementation.

The Project Task Team Leader and his team demonstrated high activity and flexibility to solve all
issues quickly and in a correct manner. The results achieved during project implementation are
noticeable and could be rated as satisfactory.

The successful achievement of project goals and objectives were due to good cooperation
between the Ministry of Economy, governmental agencies, the World Bank, as well as the project
team and PIU support.

CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
 The design and project structure was well prepared in terms of correlation to the needs of the
  country in the fields covered by project activities. It is worth mentioning that the Government
  and its agencies essentially contributed to the achievement of project’ objectives;
 One of the key factor which ensured the successful development of the project was the
  synergy between all stakeholders involved in project preparation and implementation;
 Important input to project successful implementation has been provided through technical
  assistance and expertise of the international consultants, inter alia those involved in activities
  related to the modernization of the MSTQ system, specifically know-how transfer and
  development of the technical requirements for the metrological equipment;
 All project development objective targets have been met. Many intermediate results indicator
  targets have substantially exceeded, and all but two intermediate results indicator targets have
  been fully met. The team does not believe that these two indicators reflect negatively on the
  project. The project included some innovative elements and ambitious targets, MoE and the
  Project Implementation Unit (PIU), along with the various project beneficiaries and partners,
  have managed and implemented it very well;
 The regulatory reform component of the project was very useful not just because it provided
  funding to engage the consultants to the RIA secretariat, but more importantly because
  funding from the IDA Credit allowed other government entities to view these consultants as
  impartial experts. MoE will explore with World Bank Group team ways in which to ensure
  objectivity of the Secretariat, so that it is sustainable in the longer term;
 The matching grant facility MGF and line of credit (LOC) indicates that both components
  were successful. The components were implemented in a fairly smooth manner and favorably
  influenced the activities of beneficiary firms. The MGF provided relatively more additionally
  than the LOC. The impact assessment report calculates that export growth of USD 55-73
  million over 2007-2012 can be attributed to the MGF, and that export growth of USD 14-20
  million can be attributed to the LOC. Overall, the incremental exports associated with the two
  components account for between 7% and 11% of the USD 0.9 billion total increase in exports


                                                48
  recorded between 2007 and 2012;
 The margins for improving the design of the LOC are quite limited. As its ‘competitive
  positioning’ vis-à-vis other credit lines essentially rests on the low interest rate and maturity,
  any change that might result in an increase in the cost of funding and or maturity is likely to
  reduce the attractiveness of the initiative in the eyes of banks and, therefore, to negatively
  impact on absorption. Similarly, there appears to be limited scope for the simplification of
  procedural aspects, as the procurement rules of World Bank-funded projects are intrinsically
  different from those applicable to credit lines funded by institutions such as the IFC or the
  EBRD, which can directly interact with private banks. A possible area of improvement
  concerns the eligibility criteria for potential borrowers, which could place a comparatively
  greater emphasis on lending to SME and/or locally-owned firms, with a view to increase the
  additionality of the intervention;
 The MGF application process was quite simple and this was generally highly appreciated by
  beneficiaries, with more than 80% of firms providing a positive assessment. At the same time
  beneficiaries consider as appropriate expanding the list of eligible services for co-financing
  such as (i) market access and international networking; (ii) sector-specific training and
  services and (iii) advisory services on energy efficiency;
 The beneficiaries highly appreciates the role and the input of the PIU in achieving the project
  objectives as well as efficient and correct administration of the project’ funds.




                                                49
Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    50
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

1.    Borrower’s full Completion Report.

2.    Impact Evaluation of the CEP Matching Grants and Line of Credit Components.
      Evaluation carried out by Economisti Associati in collaboration with
      Associazione per lo Sviluppo della Valutazione e l’Analisi delle Politche
      Pubbliche, Agrex NGO

3.    PAD, Additional Financing Paper (2009), Restructuring Paper (2012),
      Implementation Status and Results Reports (ISRs) and aide memoires (AMs).




                                           51
52
