                                        Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 34288

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-42900)

                                            ON A

                                           LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.5 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                 REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                         FOR THE

                      BENGKULU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                        June 26, 2006




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Office
East Asia and Pacific Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective February 2006)

                                    Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp)
                                        Rp. 1,000 = US$ 0.1087
                                             US$ 1 = Rp9,200

                                          FISCAL YEAR
                                     April 1 - March 31, 2000
                                 January 1 - December 31, 2001

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AARD     - Agency for Agricultural Research and   INPPTP       -  Institute for the Assessment of
           Development                                            Agriculture Technology
AEKI     - Indonesian Coffee Expoters Association IAS          -  Impact Assessment Study
AIAT     - Assessment Institute for Agricultural  Kabupaten    -  District
           Technology
APBD     - Annual Local Government                KSNP         -  Kerinci Seblat National Park
           Development Budget
APBN     - Annual National Government             LKMD         -  Village Council
           Development Budget
BANGDA   - Department of Regional Development     M&E          -  Monitoring and Evaluation
           (Pembangunan Daerah)
BAPPEDA  - Regional Development Planning          MTR          -  Mid Term Review
           Agency (Badan Perencanaan
           Pembangunan Daerah)
BAPPENAS - National Development Planning          NBF          -  Non Bank Financed
           Agency (Badan Perencanaan
           Pembangunan)
BIPP     - Agricultural Information and Extension NCB          -  National Competitive Bidding
           Center
BP       - Board of Internal Control (Badan       NGO          -  Non Government Organization
           Pengawas)
BPP      - Rural Extension Center                 O&M          -  Operation and Maintenance
BRDP     - Bengkulu Regional Development          PAD          -  Project Appraisal Document
           Project
BRI      - People's Bank of Indonesia (Bank       POP          -  Project Operation Plan
           Rakyat Indonesia)
CAS      - Country Assistance Strategy            PRA          -  Participatory Rural Appraisal
CDF      - Community Development Facilitator      QAG          -  Quality Assurance Group
CGC      - Central Guidance Committee             TA           -  Technical Assistance
Dinas    - Government Technical Agencies          Tim          -  Coordination Team
                                                  Koordinasi
ERR      - Economic Rate of Return                TTL          -  Task Team Leader
FAO      - Food and Agriculture Organization      UPKD         -  Community Managed Microfinance
                                                                  Unit (Unit Pengelola Keuangan
                                                                  Desa)
GEF      - Global Environment Facility Indonesia  VAP          -  Village Action Plan
GAPKINDO - Rubber Association of Indonesia        VIC          -  Village Infrastructure Component
GOI      - Government of Indonesia                VIP          -  Village Infrastructure Project
ICR      - Implementation Completion Report       WB           -  World Bank



                                  Vice President:    Jeffrey S. Gutman, Acting EAPVP
                               Country Director      Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                                 Sector Director     Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:            Maria Triyani, EASRD

                                             INDONESIA
                         ID - BENGKULU REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT


                                             CONTENTS




                                                                                  Page No.
    1. Project Data                                                                    1
    2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
    3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
    4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
    5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
    6. Sustainability                                                                11
    7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
    8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
    9. Partner Comments                                                              14
    10. Additional Information                                                       16
    Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             19
    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             23
    Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             25
    Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             32
    Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             34
    Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                35
    Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            36

Map IBRD # 29343

Project ID: P040061                                                  Project Name: ID - BENGKULU REGIONAL
                                                                     DEVELOPMENT
Team Leader: Maria Triyani                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 25, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: ID - BENGKULU REGIONAL                                   L/C/TF Number: SCL-42900
                            DEVELOPMENT
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (40%); Micro- and SME finance (20%);
                            Sub-national government administration (20%); Roads and highways (10%); General water,
                            sanitation and flood protection sector (10%)
                  Theme: Other social protection and risk management (P); Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural
                            non-farm income generation (S); Decentralization (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/23/1995                                     Effective: 07/10/1998                07/10/1998
     Appraisal: 09/29/1997                                         MTR: 04/27/2001                  06/15/2001
      Approval: 03/03/1998                                      Closing: 08/31/2004                 12/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          The Republic of Indonesia/The Provincial Government of Bengkulu
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jeffry S. Gutman (Acting)                      Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Dennis de Tray
Sector Director:                Mark D. Wilson                                 Geoffrey B. Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Maria Triyani                                  Akihiko Nishio
ICR Primary Author:             A. Azad (FAO Investment
                                Centre)


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. The project development objectives were: (a) to alleviate poverty through rural development in
Bengkulu; and (b) to generate economic growth in rural areas of Bengkulu where growth potential is high.
These two objectives are clearly not necessarily convergent. The project impact in reducing human pressure
on the Kerinci Seblat National Park (KSNP) was correctly conceived as a benefit rather than an objective.

3.1.2. The project was consistent with and highly relevant to the government's and the Bank's development
strategy at the time of appraisal and remains so at completion. The country's development objectives were,
and still are, to reduce poverty in rural areas, and to produce commodities with the potential to increase
export earnings. The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at appraisal had identified the following
goals as the main agenda: (a) maintaining macroeconomic stability; (b) increasing efficiency and
productivity in the private and public sectors; and (c) enhancing equitable and sustainable development.
The last goal was to be addressed through efforts in the following three areas: promoting regional
development; reducing poverty and inequality; and managing the environment. The project was one of "a
series of region-specific rural development programs" designed to contribute to the first two goals, by
assisting the development of the second poorest province in Sumatra. The project was also consistent with
a CAS objective to reduce encroachment pressures on the KSNP through poverty alleviation and income
generation outside the Park.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. The original project objectives remained unchanged throughout the project implementation.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. The project had three main components: (a) village infrastructure; (b) village-based technology
adoption; and (c) capacity building and implementation support. The project costs are summarized below.
                                          Table 1: Project Components and Costs


                     Component                         Appraisal Estimate                 Actual
                                                          (US$ million)                (US$ million)

(a) Village infrastructure                                     7.6                         1.18
(b) Village-based technology adoption and related             12.9                         8.19
     income generating activities
(c) Implementation support and capacity building               5.2                         4.48

Total                                                         25.7                        13.85

Total (in Rp billion)                                         77.1                        125.4


At Loan closing, the actual costs was US$13.85 million. There are two reasons in terms of very significant
reduction in the actual costs of the components, as compared to the original costs estimate: (i) it would have
been difficult to increase substantially the level of resources transfer because of constraints on the
absorptive capacity of the beneficiaries; and, (ii) the increased of Rupiah value due to the depreciation
(which increased from the expected total costs of Rp.77.1 billion at Appraisal to the actual value of about
Rp.125.4 billion following devaluation). On the infrastructure component, since the grant funding for



                                                    - 2 -

infrastructure was available through other government schemes, the community chose to have only 25% of
the village grant was for the infrastructure component, and 75% was for the village revolving funds.

3.3.2     The project components were appropriately related to the project objectives. Lessons learned from
the village infrastructure project were fully incorporated into the project conceptualization and design. The
project design relied mainly on provincial capacity for project management.

3.3.3. The project was implemented through the existing technical line agencies of the Provincial
Development Planning Agencies, and the Resettlement and Regional Infrastructure Agencies at the
provincial and district levels (i.e. BAPPEDA & KIMPRASWIL Provincial and Kabupaten levels), and
Agricultural Information and Extension Center (BIPP) at the Kabupaten level.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. The project was modified in 2000 because of the financial crisis and the pressure which the crisis
placed on employment generation. Several changes were made to the outputs of the three components to
change the focus of the project from village based technology adoption towards support for the
development of community-managed revolving funds and related capacity at the village level. There were
two amendments to the Loan Agreement. The first amendment was made in April 2001. It modified the
original project design, reallocated the resources across loan categories, added a new category for
incremental operating costs, and reduced the loan by an amount of US$5 million. This was justified by the
impacts of the financial crisis and the need for rural employment generation. The second amendment was
made in February 2004. This amendment increased the number of project villages from 207 to 357 for
infrastructure investment through the provision of grants. No adequate justification was provided for this
increase in coverage, except that there were many poor villages in neighboring project's villages also needed
attention. In addition the target for testing of selected proven technologies and income generation activities
was increased to 370 villages from the original target of 220. The two loan amendments were unclear
about the justifications for the revision of targets, sub-components and activities. The changes to
sub-components and activities are summarized below.
                                         Table 2: Summary of Components

                     Original design                                                               Revised
(a) Village infrastructure component included infrastructure such as     The US$20,000 grant remained the same
roads, bridges, small-scale irrigation, markets, water supply and        except that a maximum of 25% was to be
sanitation. Of the US$20,000 grant per village, a maximum of 50%         spent on village infrastructure.
was to be spent on village infrastructure.
(b) Village based technology adoption component included                 Name of the component changed to: Village-based
sub-components: (i) civil works (construction of three units of district technology adoption and income generating activities.
extension services offices (BIPP), and renovation of 16 sub-district     Most of the sub-components remained the same, except
extension services (BPP) in selected areas; (ii) goods for the           for sub-component (iii): the pilot testing by pioneer
BIPP/BPP; (iii) village grants to test agricultural technology in 3      farmers was cancelled and instead provisions were made
batches (PY2 through PY4), and to replicate the technologies from        for village grants for seed capital for a
PY4 through PY6. The technology will be piloted by 5 pioneer             community-managed revolving fund unit (UPKD).
farmers during PY1 and by 10 during PY2; (iv) training for the           Villagers could borrow the money from UPKD for income
village community, and extension workers; (v) service contracts          generating activities (on-farm and nonfarm).
between BIPP and AEKI (coffee), and GAPKINDO (rubber).
(c) Capacity building and implementation support component,              Most of the sub-components remained the same, except
included: (i) civil works for construction of BRDP office in Bengkulu;   that under sub-component (iv) service contracts with
(ii) goods for the BRDP and PMD offices; (iii) training; (iv) service    specialized NGOs were included to support the
contracts between BRDP and Local research center (BPTP); and (v)         village-managed revolving fund unit, including training on
Consulting services for capacity building and implementation             financial/credit management.
supports, and field engineering services.




                                                                - 3 -

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1. Quality at Entry is rated Unsatisfactory. The project was innovative in design, supporting
decentralized development ­ before such a strategy had become an accepted Government priority ­ as well
as addressing the two inter-related policy imperatives of poverty reduction in the second poorest province
of Sumatra and reduction of encroachment pressure on the Kerinci Seblat National Park (KSNP). The
project institutional design also appears to have been well conceived, giving overall responsibility for the
project to BAPPENAS and BANGDA at the national level, devolved to BAPPEDA at the Bengkulu
Provincial level. However, the suggested deployment of (subsidized) pioneer farmers, the over-optimistic
phasing of beneficiary villages and the lack of adequate arrangements for M&E were serious faults in
project design. The project design was not the subject of a QAG analysis.

3.5.2. The original project concept involved three of the four provinces, which overlapped with the
KSNP, namely Bengkulu, Jambi and West Sumatra. This concept would have been very difficult to
manage and it was correctly decided to confine the design to the one province of Bengkulu, with separate
projects proposed for the other provinces. A detailed preparation report provided a good basis for project
appraisal. Despite these very positive aspects of the project design, the reliance on pioneer farmer results,
to be achieved in the first year of the project, was unrealistic. Moreover the pioneer farmers were to be
provided free inputs in order to operate as demonstrators for the rest of the beneficiaries. This arrangement
would have reduced the relevance of any results demonstrated to the general farming population and is also
questionable in a project aimed at a general reduction in poverty. As a result modifications had to be made
to project design at the end of 2000 in order to remove these constraints. The expectation that all the
beneficiary villages could be phased into the project in the first three years of the six year project was also
over optimistic.

3.5.3.Provision for project monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was inadequate, particularly in view of the
innovative nature of project design. Collection of adequate data on the degree to which the project reduced
poverty would have been valuable in deciding whether the project design provided a cost-effective method
of poverty reduction suitable for replication in other areas.

3.5.4   Project design adequately respected environmental aspects, although institutional arrangements
lacked any linkage between project management and the KSNP staff which could have increased the
project's positive environmental impact. The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) failed to identify the risks
associated with fielding the pioneer farmers and obtaining demonstrable results from them to show to other
farmers, as well as with possible slower phasing in of farmer beneficiaries.

There were four loan covenants, all of which were complied with, albeit with delay:

1. For BAPPEDA Province to employ the TA consultants for Capacity Building/Implementation by May
    1, 1998.
2. For Dinas PU Province to employ the Field Engineers by December 1, 1998.
3. For GOI and the Bank to conduct a mid-term review of the project, by June 30, 2000.
4. For BAPPEDA Province to conduct a Beneficiary Survey by October 31 during each of the fiscal
    years 1999/2000-2003/04, and inform the Bank of its results by December 31 of each fiscal year.




                                                     - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.1.1    The outcome/achievement of the project's development objectives is rated Satisfactory, based on
(i) the substantial achievement of the physical implementation objectives; (ii) project economic viability,
financial and poverty reduction benefits, and (iii) the likely future sustainability. At appraisal it was
expected that the project would cover some 40,000 families, but in the event an estimated 64,000 families
have benefited through 84,144 individual loans. Assuming an average household size of 3.3 persons this
                                                   1


would indicate 211,200 direct beneficiaries. As appraised the project aimed to cover around 220 villages,
chosen based on their poverty status and representing around 20% of the total number of villages in the
Province. Because the project villages were located in clusters in each of the Kabupatens (Districts) the
project impact was limited to those villages selected for inclusion in the project ­ rather than covering every
location as indicated by the first objective. In the event the project covered 369 poverty villages and thus
significantly exceeds the PAD target. A 2005 project impact study concluded that whereas in 1998 some
44% of families in the project villages were affected by poverty, the proportion of families in poverty had
declined to 14% in 2004. It is not possible, however, to attribute the decline in poverty only to the BRDP as
there were numerous other governmental poverty alleviation programs being implemented at the same time
in Bengkulu. Support provided by the project in creation of village-managed revolving grant program and
rural infrastructure has had a good impact on increasing production of estate crops.       2  As with the first
objective, the exact size of the impact is not possible to assess from the data available. The project has had
a positive impact on women through income generation activities. Women had an active role in the
management of UPKD (notably through the Community Managed Revolving Fund Unit). The project has
now provided greater stability of employment to households. The additional income has enabled women to
improve their family's nutrition, provide for children's education, and improve their homes. The poor or
those vulnerable are now much less dependent on money lenders.

4.1.2    The project has contributed to empowerment of village councils through provision of employment
for infrastructure works and through an increase in economic activity as a result of the credit provision for
a wide range of activities, including agriculture, fisheries, trading, small industry, and service industries.
The project has contributed to the development of local NGO capacity. NGO partnership was important in
reaching the poor.

4.1.3    The project successfully involved the villagers in decision making about the use of grant funds and
in the preparation of operation and maintenance plans for the village infrastructure assets. The villagers
were employed to build the village infrastructure works. It created jobs paid in cash for underemployed
villagers and mobilized the villagers to make substantial contributions in cash, labor, land (right of way),
and in some cases materials such as timber. There was also short-term employment for unskilled laborers
and field engineers.

4.1.4    The project has environmental benefits as a result of reducing the pressure of human encroachment
on the KSNP. It appears from the ICR mission's discussions in Muko-muko District that establishment of
the revolving fund in villages has enabled some farmers to develop their agriculture and generally improve
their livelihood, with the result that they have been able to give up their previous occupation of illegal
logging and other activities within KSNP.
__________________________
1
  Of which 63,440 were made to men (75%) and 20,704 to women (25%).
2 Mainly rubber, oil palm, coffee and cocoa.



                                                       - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1. Village infrastructure component is rated Satisfactory. This component focused on village
infrastructure following the Village Infrastructure Project model, based on a village action plan developed
through participatory rural appraisal and including a participatory survey. The village councils
implemented the works, using mainly village labor. The menu of infrastructure investments, from which
villagers could choose according to their needs, included the following: (a) village roads; (b) bridges; (c)
jetties; (d) small-scale irrigation; (e) water supply and sanitation; and (g) simple agricultural processing and
markets. During the construction period villagers contributed around 25% of civil-works cost. The
contributions came in the following forms which were monitored throughout the project period: (a)
provision of land for village roads, markets and canal alignment and structures (there was no compensation
for land from the project); (b) earthwork (i.e. excavation and fill covering, de-silting of canals/structures);
(c) masonry, such as repair of cracks; and (d) building works for UPKD meeting place/office.

The following (in order of importance) were the elements from the menu of infrastructure investments
chosen most often by the villagers: (a) village access tracks or village roads (total length: 64km); (b) small
bridges including suspension bridges (total number: 55 bridges); (c) rehabilitation of small-scale gravity
irrigation schemes through the repair of canals with reduced capacity (19 schemes with a total area of
950ha) and (d) mainly gravity rural water supply schemes (13 schemes). Rural water supply schemes were
built by villagers, however without attention for sanitation. Possibly the water supply and sanitation
schemes were chosen less often because according to the facilitators and field engineers these did not have a
direct economic impact. The repair works to the existing irrigation schemes have improved performance of
irrigation schemes through: (a) the extension of the useful life of existing irrigation schemes; (b) the
reduction of leakage from main and secondary canals through selective lining and water-control structures;
and (c) increased water-use reliability, availability and efficiency through the repair of turnouts,
cross-drainage structures, outlets and division boxes.

The construction of civil works was efficiently done to simple design standards, and the quality of works is
generally reported to be satisfactory. Although two procurement post reviews were carried out by the
project neither of these attempted to review the civil works contractual arrangements. No mis-procurement
was reported. In most cases the village infrastructure works provided clear benefits to villagers. Procedures
(i.e. through village labor and collection of fees for the operation and maintenance) have been put in place
to operate and maintain the village assets. Therefore the sustainability of village infrastructure component
is rated Likely.

4.2.2.Village-Based Technology Adoption and Related Income-Generating Activities Component.
This component is rated Satisfactory mainly because of the achievements of credit performance. This
component was designed to support agricultural development of the project villages through
implementation of a 3.5-year support for technology testing and replication in each village, using half of the
grant for each village.      Four specific farming systems (`technological packages') were identified at
appraisal and included the following: (a) oil palm-based intercropping system; (b) coffee-based
intercropping system; (c) fruit tree-based intercropping system; and (d) rice/fish combination and rotation
systems. Farmer beneficiaries were to be encouraged to adopt these and other improved technological
packages through a project-financed program of selecting pioneer farmers in each village covered by the
project. who would demonstrate the technology to their neighbors. However, as soon as the project started,
         3


it quickly became apparent that trying to use pioneer farmers was unworkable. Accordingly in 2000 the
project design was modified to allow more flexibility in the provision of credit so as to make it more
demand-driven. Following the modification of the project design detailed guidelines and a credit manual for
the revolving funds were produced, and subsequently the project implementation improved substantially.



                                                       - 6 -

The five and ten pioneer farmers for technology testing in the original design were cancelled and provision
was made for village grants of seed capital for a community-managed revolving fund unit (UPKD).
Farmers participating in the project, whose loans were used for agricultural activities, numbered 49,600, or
about 59% of the total borrowers. The project provided the opportunity for farmers to adopt the technology
agricultural packages (KIT), from cultivation to post-harvest technology, which were developed by the
Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology in Bengkulu. Increase of yields for certain commodities
was observed. The project funds received as revolving funds have increased from Rp 58.3 billion to Rp
62.9 billion as a result of an increase in community savings and UPKD profits.

As estimated at Appraisal, there were three District Agricultural Information and Extension Center (BIPP)
constructed, and 21 units of sub-district/rural agricultural extension center (BPP) were rehabilitated out of
16 units estimated at appraisal. These were rated as satisfactory. The pilot program for improving the
processing and marketing of coffee through the collaboration with the private sector, Indonesian Coffee
Exporters Association (AEKI), was not so successful. The pilot program was conducted at six villages out
of ten villages estimated at Appraisal. AEKI had a constraint due to the monetary crisis which could not
support sufficient staff to provide the expected services. On rubber, the pilot program for planting and
processing of rubber with Indonesian Rubber Association (GAPKINDO) was rated as satisfactory. The
pilot program was conducted at 29 villages out 27 villages at Appraisal. Annex 1 has further details of the
outcomes.

A total of 84,144 beneficiaries in 369 villages received credit. As of 31 December 2005, an amount of Rp
58.3 billion of seed capital had been disbursed to the village accounts managed by UPKDs over a total
period of six years. Also, over the same period an amount of Rp. 62.9 billion had been re-lent to
communities. Savings mobilized from communities amounted to Rp. 2.5 billion. Net profit on operations
was Rp. 2.1 billion for the period of January to December 2005. The on-time repayment rate as a first
approximation of credit performance (defined as payments collected as a percentage of payments due) at
Loan closing was 82 percent. For 369 UPKDs, there were 112 UPKDs (30%) with a repayment rate above
95 percent, 44 UPKDs (12%) with a repayment rate between 90 and 95 percent, and 73 UPKDs (20%)
with a repayment rate below 50 percent. The interest rate varied from 1.25 to 2 percent per month, on a
flat principal, as decided by the community policy within the guidelines. The performance of UPKDs is
presented in Annex 3.

UPKDs have established some 20 informal Forums, each having a membership of about 15 UPKD. The
aim of the Forums is to enable sharing of information and solving of problems and so does provide some
degree of autonomous support.

4.2.3. Capacity Building and Implementation Support component is rated Satisfactory. This component
was designed to assist the government agencies concerned in implementing the project and build their
institutional capacity. It included (a) field engineering services for village infrastructure; (b) development of
technology packages and monitoring/analysis of farmer-based testing by the Provincial Institute for the
Assessment of Agricultural Technology (BPTP); (c) technical assistance for capacity building and
implementation support; (d) information dissemination, and province-level implementation support.
__________________________

3 Five pioneer farmers per village in the first year of the project and a further 10 in Year 2




                                                         - 7 -

Both BIPP and BPTP played an important role in supporting project activities in an effort to improve
agricultural productivity, particularly in: (i) providing rural agricultural technologies packages prepared in
the form of KITs (Technological Information Compilation); (ii) informing extension workers (PPL) about
the KITs; and (iii) assisting, guiding, and monitoring the technology adoption packages. These activities
were carried out to meet farmers' needs and improve their skills and knowledge in agricultural technology.
BPTP has provided 8 series or 159 KIT packages, including 110 post-harvest technology packages plus 49
cultivation technology packages, and 30 leaflets. BPTP also established `agricultural technology clinics',
which were intended to provide the farmers with technological and marketing advice. At project closing
nine `agricultural clinics' have been established. These clinics were partly financed by the local
government.

Government staff (BAPPEDA, BIPP, PPL and district staff) were trained by the BRDP Consultant. UPKD
staff were trained in financial aspects by NGOs and micro-finance consultants. In addition, study tours
were organized for village committee members to visit West Java and Bali. In West Java they visited two
successful community-managed revolving fund units supervised by an NGO. While in Bali selected village
committee members joined a workshop on implementation of UPKDs in a similar type of regional projects.
There were also lessons/workshops organized for the 132 villages on O&M of village infrastructure works
including preparation of maintenance plans. Annex 1 has details of the outputs.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

At appraisal the economic analysis was based on the assumption that farmers would adopt one of four
agricultural development packages. In the event, and with relaxation of the criteria for credit approval in
order to make the project more demand driven that part of the credit devoted to agriculture (amounting to
around 59% of the total credit provided) has been predominantly used by farmers for the purchase of
fertilizers and other input items. Consequently, as detailed in Annex 3, the economic rate of return is
recalculated at 37%, significantly higher than the 19% calculated at appraisal.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1    No financial rate of return was calculated at appraisal, nor was any assessment made of likely
increases in income levels apart from noting that these would be significant. Analyses based on sample
surveys made by the Bengkulu Agricultural Technology Research Center indicate an increase in income as
a result of the project of around 40%, the same as the findings of an impact study commission in the last
year of the project. The impact study found that income in a control group of non-project villages had
increased by about 8% over the same period. The study also observed that in the 74 villages (1,480
households)s studied, the percentage of families in poverty had declined from around 45% in 1998 to about
14% in 2004.

4.4.2    Financing by Government following project completion is expected to be minor. As discussed in
Section 6.2.1 the Bengkulu Province Government has already made funding provision to allow continued
support of project operation by BAPPEDA. Since the operation of the revolving fund and the UPKDs is
self-sustaining and since maintenance of the infrastructure built by the project is the responsibility of the
beneficiaries, no additional government financing would be required. Indeed, as a result of the increase in
economic activity generated by the project and consequent increased tax receipts the overall fiscal impact of
the project is expected to be positive.




                                                      - 8 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1    The project has successfully demonstrated the feasibility of decentralized development. The project
supported the provincial decentralization process in capacity building and training. With the training and
back-up assistance financed by the project some 369 UPKDs have been created, the vast majority of which
are already operating satisfactorily. As a model for reducing rural poverty in project areas the project has
already shown mainly satisfactory results. However the UPKDs are as yet still fairly new developing
institutions. How best they should - and how they will - continue to grow is as yet still unclear. The project
has contributed to empowerment of village councils and has also contributed to the development of local
NGOs capacity. NGO partnership was important in reaching the poor. In addition through the on-the-job
training, the capacity of UPKD management with substantive participation of women treasurers - has been
strengthened. Under the project the public agencies involved also have developed knowledge and skills in
implementation of demand-driven approaches to rural development, including micro-finance and provision
of village infrastructure. The same model had been applied under the Bengkulu district development
program for rural infrastructure in non-project villages at a cost of Rp150 million (US$16,300) per village
of which two-thirds will be used for infrastructure. The project has therefore already been adopted as a
model for replication. Implementation procedures developed by the project are also being adopted in regular
public expenditures programs. As a result of the experience gained and training received during
implementation the technical expertise amongst agency staff in micro-finance and rural infrastructure
provision has also significantly increased.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1    The project was largely unaffected by natural disasters during implementation. There were two
serious earthquakes, the first in June 2000 and the second at the same time as the December 2004 tsunami,
but these had no significant effect on the project. The main negative influence on the project was the
aftermath of the 1997 Asian Financial Crisis, the effects of which continued for nearly five years. To ease
the financial situation the Government cancelled parts of loans throughout its portfolio of projects jointly
financed with the Bank, including US$5 million from this project in early 2001. And further cancellation of
US$3.05 million at closing account at end of April 2006.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1    The government policy of decentralization in the years following 2001 had a major impact on the
project. Splitting of Kabupatens increased their number from three at the start of the project to eight at the
end. This resulted in the need to recruit and train BRDP district management staff towards the end of the
project and made smooth implementation difficult. The changeover from an April/March fiscal year to a
January/December year from 2001 onwards also presented a lot of administrative difficulties. It also
further aggravated the long-existing, chronic problem of late release of government budget. Government
helped implementation of this innovative project by developing a new mechanism for budget application
and release of funds, but this generally did not result in any change in the timeliness of release of the
budget. From 2004 onwards Government has not allowed any roll-over of unused loan funds from one year
to the next, which has further increased the difficulties related to late fund release. The Special Account set
up for the project was maintained by the Ministry of Finance, so that the aim of the Account to provide
pre-financing of expenditures was effectively neutralized. The emphasis on rigorous project auditing
procedures, are indicative of the high level of Government commitment to project aims. Limited


                                                     - 9 -

Government commitment to project M&E both in the project design and during implementation has resulted
in inadequate data collection so that an accurate assessment of the project's impact on poverty alleviation in
Bengkulu more generally cannot be made. However, the Bupati for North Bengkulu passed Regulation
number 432 dated October 2005 on village financial management. All eight districts have adopted the
Regulation which provides a sound basis for the operation of the UPKDs.


5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    BAPPENAS and BANGDA at the central level, BAPPEDA at the province level, Kabupaten staff
of the various line agencies, and the Village Councils worked in a well coordinated way in implementing the
project. Coordination was assisted by the Central Guidance Committee (CGC) at the central level and Tim
Koordinasi (Coordination Teams) operating respectively at provincial and district (kabupaten) levels. Slow
recruitment of NGO facilitators and consultants slowed project implementation. Training and backup
support to the UPKDs (village revolving fund management staff) has been largely effective so that the large
majority of the staff are competent to manage the funds. Coordination with KSNP was reported to have
been good while the GEF assisted project was under implementation, but after the closure of the KSNP
project in 2002 this linkage weakened. Lack of any formal coordination mechanism between project staff
and those of the KSNP may have reduced the project's beneficial environmental impact.

5.4 Costs and financing:

At appraisal, the total cost of the project was estimated at US$25.7 million of which the Bank loan was
intended to finance US$20.5 million. At loan closing, the total project cost was US$13.85 million of which
disbursement by the Bank was US$12.45 million. Detailed project costs and financing are outlined in
Annex 2. The following table summarizes the planned and actual disbursement.

                              Table 3: Cumulative Project Costs, comparison between Appraisal and
                                                Actual


                                       1998     1999    2000     2001      2002     2003       2004    2005



 Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)       1.40    4.00    8.80     16.70     21.10    25.70

 Actual (US$ million)                   0.21    0.99    1.32      2.48     4.46     7.34      11.32 13.85

 Actual as percentage of Appraisal       15      25      15        15       21        29         -       -




The reasons for delayed disbursement were: (a) the project design was too complex and ambitious: notably
the expectation that all the beneficiary villages could be phased into the project in the first three years of the
six year-project was over-optimistic; (b) the annual budget was based on the expected full year of
implementation, but quite often the budget was released late in May/June for the financial year that began
in January, leaving only half a year to implement the year's work plan; (c) financial crises had a major
impact on the project until 2001 and US$5 million were cancelled from the loan; (d) further cancellation of
US$3.05 million was made at closing account at end of April 2006.



                                                     - 10 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1    The sustainability of the project is rated Likely for the reasons below:

6.1.2    The project meets key criteria for sustainability: (a) it is highly attractive financially to
beneficiaries and economically to society as whole, (b) it promotes environmentally sound practices; and (c)
it is socially and politically accepted by key stakeholders. Additionally, the Government at various levels
remains highly committed to continuing the positive achievements of the project and fully institutionalizing
the fight against poverty through rural development.

6.1.3    Thanks to a number of factors including the project-funded training, relatively small and
homogenous villages and strong beneficiary interest, UPKD performance has been generally satisfactory
and in some cases highly satisfactory. Out of the 370 villages covered by the project there has been only
one UPKD total failure. However while the villages covered at the start of the project have had the benefit
of five years or more of training, mentoring and supervision some 150 villages have been covered by the
project only during the last 18 months of implementation and their UPKD staff therefore lack the degree of
training and experience of their earlier colleagues. It is most important that training and other assistance
should continue to be provided to these UPKDs so that they may continue to operate properly. Good
discipline in repayment to the UPKD is essential for the continuation of their operation. Breakdown in
repayment discipline can be contagious and therefore it is essential that the newer UPKDs and weaker ones
of all ages be adequately supported in order to maintain the whole provincial system.


6.1.4    The main reason for the project's success and for its likely future sustainability would appear to be
the strong sense or ownership the project has been able to generate amongst beneficiaries. Rural credit
schemes in the past (such as BIMAS/INMAS and KUT) were government-driven, politicized schemes for
the supply of credit at subsidized rates through banks which were frequently remote from the rural areas
benefited. In most cases such schemes were seen as a government gift and repayment performance was
correspondingly only around 20%. The remoteness of the project villages often made them unable to benefit
from credit through banks, their only source of credit being money lenders charging high interest rates.
Consequently the arrival of funding to be managed by the village, as revolving grant program, using locally
recruited staff who were trained by Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) and NGO, and of simple and transparent
rules and regulations, has been warmly welcomed and accepted. In all the villages visited by the ICR
mission there was a clearly developed sense of ownership and interest in the management of the fund by the
village as a whole. Timely repayment was strongly encouraged by peer pressure which could extend to
defaulters being ostracized by the village until their loans were repaid.

6.1.5    Villagers are responsible for O&M after construction. Most village communities have designated
operators for water supply, roads and suspension bridges maintenance. These have access to tools and
spare parts, and know where to go for help. The small-scale irrigation schemes have informal water users
associations and are well managed. The ICR mission found that villagers were satisfied overall with the
village infrastructure. There is widespread agreement that the users are responsible for O&M costs and
pay for them with cash or labor, or both. Villagers were trained in maintenance activities and in preparation
of maintenance plans, although such plans have subsequently not always been prepared. Since most of the
infrastructure is of simple design standards - to keep the cost low - it will require labor-intensive
maintenance.



                                                      - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1    Project management has prepared a Project Operation Plan (POP). Most importantly Bengkulu
province has already agreed the budget for BAPPEDA staff for 2006 ­ although it should be noted that this
2006 budget is only one third of the budget in the last year of project implementation. All the eight district
governments have allocated budget for hiring microfinance consultants and facilitators' services to continue
support to UPKDs, and some are sharing costs with UPKDs in paying for the services. Support will also
continue to be provided by the Balai Informasi Penyuluhan Pertanian/Balai Penyuluhan Pertanian
(BIPP/BPP or Rural Extension Center) on agriculture training, advice and technology transfer as part of
their normal work plan, in turn supported by technical back-up from the Balai Pengkajian Teknologi
Pertanian (BPTP or Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology).

6.2.2    Since the operation of the revolving fund and the UPKDs is self-sustaining and since maintenance
of the infrastructure built by the project is the responsibility of the beneficiaries, no additional government
financing would be required. However, continued technical assistance will be essential to provide for
continued operation of the revolving fund and maintenance of village infrastructure assets. One option
might be a variant of the visiting agent system frequently used by plantation companies. This system
consists of six-monthly or more frequent visits from an experienced staff member who can discuss and help
find solutions for the problems of the particular unit visited. It therefore provides both a support service to
staff as well as a degree of supervision of activities. Suitable staff to provide such a service might be
recruited from retired staff with rural banking experience.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.1.1    The Bank provided assistance to the Borrower and implementing agency through frequent missions
over two years. Apart from ensuring that the project was consistent with national and provincial priorities
and the Bank's CAS, the dialogue with the Bank resulted in the incorporation of lessons learned from the
implementation of the Bank-funded Village Infrastructure Project. However, the eventual design, as set out
in the PAD, was deficient in that the speed of implementation was tied to performance of pioneer farmers,
which performance was highly subject to administrative, budgetary, climatic and social delays and
therefore presented an extreme risk to timely project implementation. As mentioned earlier the proposed
phasing for inclusion of villages in the project was also over-optimistic. In addition, the design paid
insufficient attention to establishing an adequate M&E system. As a result Bank performance during
project preparation and appraisal is rated Unsatisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
7.1.2    Bank supervision is rated Satisfactory. In total 14 supervision missions including an MTR mission
visited the project to provide advice and assistance with implementation. Consequently Bank supervision
played an important role in assisting the Borrower and participating agencies in keeping the project on
track. The project started slowly with disbursement well below target in each of the first three years during
which time it was rated "Unsatisfactory" on account of unsatisfactory implementation progress. The
Bank played an important role in modification of the project. Following the sixth supervision mission in
May 2000 implementation performance was considered satisfactory and was assessed as such for the
remainder of project implementation. The MTR mission in July 2000 noted that the project was back on
track and was poised to move fast over the remaining project period. Subsequent supervision missions



                                                      - 12 -

rated progress as satisfactory. The closing date of the loan was extended twice to permit completion of
project. The Bank contributed to the enforcement of procurement rules and financial management and
auditing by conducting two procurement post reviews and financial management audits. During supervision
the Bank was supportive in agreeing the modifications made to the project design in 2000, the cancellation
of US$5 million of the loan in early 2001, modification of the loan agreement to allow payment of 100% of
project operating costs and two extensions totalling 16 months to the implementation period. Continuity of
                                                                                             4


Bank staff involved in supervision was good.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.4.1     The involvement of the borrower in project preparation is rated Satisfactory. The Borrower
provided strong and consistent support during project preparation and actively engaged with Bank teams in
arriving at the final project design. Sufficient resources were also committed by the borrower to the project
preparation, which were used to commission various sector studies to underpin the design. A national
preparation team under the umbrella of BAPPENAS provided dedicated and consistent counterpart
expertise, in rural development and micro-finance aspects to work with the World Bank. Dedicated
preparation teams and funds were also provided at provincial levels to prepare the project. In addition
target villagers were actively engaged in consultations during preparation to ensure a broad spectrum of
stakeholders.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated Satisfactory. During implementation performance
has been good, despite the extremely difficult financial and political climate during much of the period. As
with all other government operations the project suffered from late release of budget. Otherwise borrower
performance was generally supportive of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
 The implementation performance in the first three years was unsatisfactory due to problems encountered in
project management, supply of technical assistance, procurement, and award of contracts. There was
abnormal delay in awarding contracts for Field Engineering Consultant and the main project NGO.
Contracts for supply of technical assistance have been regularly amended. Project management at
provincial and district levels were unfamiliar and inexperienced with the requirement of Bank funded
projects. As project staff acquired more experience and benefited from the technical assistance funded by
the project implementation performance steadily improved and was satisfactory during the last four years.
Overall implementation agency performance is rated as Satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Based on the above evaluation of the performance of Government and implementing agencies, the overall
borrower's performance is rated Satisfactory.




_________________
4
  Initially from 31 August 2004 to 31 August 2005 and then to 31 December 2005.




                                                     - 13 -

8. Lessons Learned

8.1. Lessons learned as a result of the project implementation experience are as follows:

l When supported by adequate training and supervision village revolving grant program can be one of
    the surest ways of fighting poverty directly. Poor households and those vulnerable to poverty should
    have continued access to micro-credits.

l Establishment of successful community-managed revolving funds has other important and valuable
    benefits in terms of capacity building, group empowerment and increased cohesion of the community.

l Taking the village as the entry point for project activities improves participation, ownership, capacity
    to absorb project supported changes, capture benefits and the sustainability of project interventions.
    This leads to income and employment generation, sustainable resource management, and better
    allocation of funds. The project has also shown that priority needs are more likely to be addressed when
    villagers are given multiple options from which to choose.

l Inclusion of adequate provision for M&E, preferably by a third party, should be essential for any
    project design, but it is crucially important for innovative projects.

l Where inclusion of areas, villages, groups or individuals are phased into the project over the
    implementation period, the arrangements for those taken in at the end of the project and their further
    support after credit/loan closure (exit strategy) needs to be already agreed at project mid-term review
    (MTR).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Note: Partners comments below have not been edited.


Lessons learned

For village infrastructure, the maximum ceiling of Rp 50 million per village is considered insufficient,
particularly for villages that implemented the development of village infrastructure in 2003 until the end of
the project. This is because of significantly increased prices of materials. As a result, the quality of
infrastructure developed is less satisfactory and less attention was given to the safety of users. Therefore,
the project management should give village infrastructure managers flexibility in using the allocated funds.
Although village infrastructure built requires lower costs than the costs of the work done by contractors,
due to lack of maintenance its life is shorter than its design. Therefore, a strict policy on maintenance of the
infrastructure built should be issued.




                                                      - 14 -

Quality at Entry

The project had focused the monitoring and evaluation system on financial aspects, such as Letter of
Request for Payment (SPM), financial backlog, disbursement level, revolving funds including repayment
rate, etc., however, monitoring of social, institutional and economic aspects was inadequate. In the
first-phase villages, the project management still required the target villages to prepare poverty benchmark
data but, unfortunately, this data is not updated and replicated in the next-phase villages. In fact, the
information presented can properly represent the project's impacts. As a result, at the end of the project, the
project management has difficulty in monitoring the project's effects on target communities. The situation
was complicated by the existence of similar programs in the same area and it is therefore difficult to
attribute benefits directly to BRDP.

Institutional Impacts

BRDP, like other similar programs, has created new social capital in Bengkulu rural communities. The
social capital does not only include introduction to modern culture and economy but also a more
democratic, transparent and justifiable process of decision making. In the long term, the social capital, if
well maintained, may become capital for village communities to develop. Programs that provide direct
subsidies for the communities may destroy the established social capital.

In terms of institutional issues, the project should support government policies for institutional
reinforcement. The establishment of new ad-hoc village institutions not set out in regulations will have
implications for their legal status. The establishment of UPKDs and internal controllers will result in the
long-term absence of legal assurance because neither institution is described in regulations on the village
institutional apparatus. Although this condition can be minimized by the issuance of a Bupati regulation,
the legal framework should be designed in parallel to the establishment of institutions needed. The
establishment of institutions should be driven by public good rather than the project needs.

Others

Generally, the project was successful in achieving its goals, particularly in alleviating poverty in Bengkulu.
At least, the project has made a significant contribution to poverty alleviation. There has been effective
cooperation between the Bank, Central Guidance Committee (CGC), and the regional government. It is true
that there are weaknesses, but they can still be overcom. Intense communications between related
stakeholders helped solve the problems of the project implementation agency.

In terms of supervision and audit, the existing system requires the project to be audited many times by
government auditors and non-government auditors (appointed by the Bank, NGOs) in short periods.
Consequently, the project management has to allocate excessive time to assistance of audit teams and
inadequate time for supervisory activities.

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A




                                                    - 15 -

10. Additional Information

Executive Summary of the Borrower's Implementation Completion Report

1.       Introduction

The Bengkulu Regional Development Project (BRDP), including the main component of Village
Community Activity (PKD) is considered important in an effort to empower village communities across
eight districts (kabupatens) in the Province of Bengkulu, covering 369 project villages. PKD essentially
consists of two main activities, i.e.: (i) Microcredit/Revolving Funds managed by a Village Finance
Management Unit (UPKD) to support the financing of Agricultural Technology Adoption and
communities' Income-Generating Activities (UEP), and (ii) Development of Village Facility and
Infrastructure (SPD). These two activities were supported by Capacity Building and Implementation
Support Services, included trainings, consultant services, and service contract between BRDP and
Assesment Institute for Agricultural Technology (Local reseach center/BPTP) to develop agricultural
technology packages with local specific.

2.       General Conclusions

The performance of BRDP can generally be considered satisfactory. UPKDs managed by village
communities are relatively successful in achieving their goals. Village communities are very concerned with
the existence of these institutions because this is an alternative way for the communities to obtain capital
loans quickly and easily. In addition, if given opportunities to manage their own finance/credit the
communities appear to be more effective and relatively successful in improving the economy in rural poor
areas when compared with the programs directly managed by the Government.

The village facilities and infrastructure (SPD) chosen by the communities to be built may take the form of
farm roads, water channels, suspension bridges, dam checks/irrigation channels, retaining walls, water
facilities, village markets and fish auction places. The communities give full support to physical
development. This can be seen from their moral contributions in the form of self-help and material
contributions in the form of money or land for development purposes representing 37.8% of the total
development costs.

At the end of the project, 79,963 beneficiary villagers become UPKD customers composed of 18,976
women and 60,987 men, aratio of about 3:1. The project funds received as revolving funds have increased
from Rp 58.3 billion to 62.9 billion as a result of an increase in community savings and UPKD profits.

3.       Lessons Learned

(a)      Project Design. In the beginning, the adoption of agricultural technology was designed through a
selection of pioneer farmers before being replicated widely by farmers using credits from the revolving
funds. The main focus to increase incomes in this early design was the replication of agricultural
technology tried out by pioneer farmers. This early design was considered too long and less flexible in
response to the communities' needs to increase their income. In the 2000 mid-term review, this early design
was revised by removing the requirements for pioneer farmers and thus being more open (open menu) to
other economic activities, not only limited to agricultural activities. In the future, a community
empowerment program should be made simpler and more flexible.

(b)      Quality at Entry. Lack of anticipation of decentralization and regional autonomy at the beginning
of the project by the Central Government and Regions has made it unclear as to who is responsible for
project management and the different budgeting system from year to year has caused the publication of



                                                     - 16 -

budget documents not to be synchronous and the time of implementation to be insufficient. A complete
absence of detailed technical and administrative implementation guidelines, including the Monitoring &
Evaluation System at the beginning of the project, had made the project implementation difficult for the
project management as well as communities/beneficiaries. For projects where communities are directly
involved, everything should be prepared in detail, including socialization and training, at least one year
before the commencement of the project.

(c)     The uniform ceilings of revolving funds for each village are considered inefficient and unfair for
villages of relatively dense population. It is recommended that the ceilings of revolving funds not be made
uniform in all villages but established on the basis of: (i) population or number of households, (ii) levels of
income and expenditure of the community learned from a household survey, (iii) potential economic
development of the villages concerned, and (iv) assumptions of performance and other amounts to be
applied such as rate of interest and level of repayment, and the repayment period. Also the same as for
Infrastructure, the maximum ceiling of Rp 50 million per village is considered insufficient.

4.      Sustainability and Operational Plans

The sustainability of BRDP in the Province of Bengkulu in the future is perfectly feasible. This can be seen
from the regional government's serious attention to its commitments to support the future implementation
of BRDP such as:

(a)     Regional Government's support that they have prepared a draft regional regulations
        (PERATURAN DAERAH/PERDA) as an UPKD legal umbrella upon completion of BRDP. In
        the long term, such regional regulations should be prepared with the involvement of public
        participation in line with the BRDP design, i.e. demand-driven approach. At present, all
        kabupatens have had a legal umbrella in the form of Bupati decrees in the process with the
        legislative branch to become Regional Regulations.

(b)     Encouraging human resources development by accelerating the process of cadre creation, and
        providing training and apprenticeship opportunities for UPKD managers, particularly in preparing
        financial statements/accounts and providing computer training and supervising established
        microfinance institutions.

(c)     Intensifying the approach to informal leaders (community and religious) in villages thus making
        them deeply concerned about planning, implementing and overseeing village activity programs
        (PKD).

(d)     Encouraging UPKDs to formulate and impose sanctions on debtors in arrears while taking into
        account prevailing local/traditional wisdom.

(e)     Encouraging the communities to maintain facilities and infrastructure built by BRDP in mutual
        cooperation.

(f)     Through APBD, the allocation of funds by provincial and kabupaten governments to build and
        evaluate the progress of UPKD, regularly.

(g)     Keeping fund distribution effective and prudent.

(h)     Optimizing UPKD activities to achieve a process of mutual learning and build information
        networks, sharing self-reliant experiences and engaging a microfinance facilitators or consultants
        as needed.



                                                     - 17 -

The future BRDP Operational Plans are:

l      To optimize facilitation activities by using UPKD resources and village cadres.
l      To formulate stronger legal status of UPKDs to protect them as village financial institutions and
l      formulate asset ownership status of UPKDs.
l      To make effective the internal control by the Village Control Agency composed of public
l      representatives and public figures.
l      To establish a form of relationship between UPKD and the formal financial system/banks.




                                                   - 18 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




             Indicator/Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:                               Target                       Actual/Latest Estimate


 A1. Lower incidence of poverty, in             Poverty Condition:                Poverty Condition:
      absolute and relative terms.              In 1990: 25.4 %                   In 2004: 22 %
                                                In 19981: No of poor people       In 20053: No of poor people
                                                Bengkulu Selatan2: 58,898         Bengkulu Selatan, Seluma, Kaur:
                                                Rejang Lebong :     80,603        56,062; Rejanglebong, Kepahyang,
                                                Bengkulu Utara:     96,310        Lebong: 45,191; Bengkulu Utara,
                                                                                  Muko-muko: 62,057
                                                          Total: 235,811
                                                                                                     Total: 163,310

                                                                                  Impact study found number of families
                                                                                  in the project villages in poverty declined
                                                                                  from 45% in 1998 to 14% in 2004
 B1. Higher growth rate for the province                                          The project targeted only 370 villages out
                                                                                  of 1,260 villages of Bengkulu province.
                                                                                  From a sample of 74 project villages and
                                                                                  18 non-project villages: the income per
                                                                                  household increased by 41% in project
                                                                                  villages and in non-project village's
                                                                                  income increased by 8%.
 ·       Employment generation                                                    Immediate employment: 1,845
                                                                                  people. Additional employment
                                                                                  through RF 6.4million work-days.
                                                                                  Field engineers and NGO staff
                                                                                  during project implementation;
                                                                                  Labor for civil works; Water
                                                                                  supply, markets operators and
                                                                                  roads.
 ·       Economic Rate of Return (ERR)                    19%                                        37%



1
  Perkembangan Penduduk Miskin, Ekonomi Makro dan Kesejahteraan Rakyat Bengkulu 1998 (Poor community
  and welfare status, macro economic in 1998), Badan Pusat Statistik Propinsi Bengkulu.
2 Due to the decentralization process; in 2004 the original participating districts was expanded into several new
  districts, although the total coverage areas are same with the original ones.
3 Survey Penduduk Miskin (Poor community survey in 2005); Badan Pusat Statistik Propinsi, in collaboration
  with BAPPEDA Province.




                                                        - 19 -

                Indicator/Matrix
          Outcome/Impact Indicators                               Target                                Actual/Latest Estimate
 Project Outputs
 A. Improvement of infrastructure in the project
    villages
 A.1. Number of completed village                               207 villages                                  132 villages
 l Village foot tracks/village roads                                  -                                           64 km
 l Bridges (suspension bridges & concrete)                           -                                           55 units
 l Water supply
                                                                      -                       14 schemes (@ 60 liters/capita/day) and
 l Irrigation schemes                                                                         560 direct beneficiaries
                                                                      -                        Rehabilitation of 19 small scale irrigation.
 l Village markets                                                                            Total area 950 ha
                                                                      -                       5 units
 A2. Quality of village infrastructure                                                        Satisfactory civil works quality control
      works.                                                                                  procedures were setup during the
                                                                                              construction; infrastructure build according
                                                                                              to low-cost design standard; labor intensive;
                                                                                              built by villagers. Mainly gravity schemes for
                                                                                              water supply (only one village opted for a
                                                                                              dug well) and irrigation.
 A3. Operation and Maintenance                     Low- cost infrastructure                   Generally satisfactory, most of village
                                                   Constructed by using community             committees own the infrastructure such as
                                                   participation methods                      bridges, roads, market and water supply
                                                                                              schemes, operators are assigned and in some
                                                                                              cases employed, maintenance fees are
                                                                                              usually collected. For some bridges and
                                                                                              roads users pay toll, markets have their own
                                                                                              service fee, market operators employed,
                                                                                              small scale irrigation schemes have informal
                                                                                              Water User Association (WUA) and O&M
                                                                                              plans are available and the schemes are
                                                                                              maintained by water users.
 B. Village based technology adoption and
     income generating activities.
 B1. Number of farmer-based tests                  3,000 pioneer farmers.
                                                         1                                    560 pioneer farmers.
      executed.                                                                               The farmer-based tests were cancelled in
                                                                                              2001, they were creating conflicts for
                                                                                              impending implementing of the replication
                                                                                              program using RF (credit). However, based
                                                                                              on field observation results/as well the
                                                                                              modification of project designed, the farmer
                                                                                              based tests of technology were cancelled in
                                                                                              April 2001, and the roles of BPTP during
                                                                                              the project implementation was more focused
                                                                                              as source of person for the PPL and
                                                                                              community facilitators in facilitating
                                                                                              farmers/communities for adopted the
                                                                                              recommended technology and as trainers for
                                                                                              PPL, facilitators and farmers, included on the
                                                                                              job training.

_________________________________
1 The first, second and third batch villages are 40, 74 and 106 villages; it was planned that the first and second trials
  farmers-based test would be executed by 5 and 10 pioneers respectively per village in consecutive years, therefore, the
  targeted pioneer farmers were 3300 farmers. The first trials were implemented in FY 99/00 - 2000 at 40 villages, and then in
  2000 - 2001 at 72 villages.




                                                              - 20 -

             Indicator/Matrix                                   Target                               Actual/Latest Estimate
       Outcome/Impact Indicators
 B2. Number of farmers participating in                                                    The replication of technologies started in
     (and area covered by) the replication                       N.A.                     2001 funded by RF and facilitated by BPTP
     program.                                                                                in collaboration with PPL/facilitators.

                                                                                             No of farmers participating in the RF
                                                                                           program are 49,600 farmers whose credit
                                                                                           (RF) were used for agricultural activities.
                                                                                           However, whether their farming activities
                                                                                          applied the adopted technology is unclear.
                                                                                                BPTP only reported the name of
                                                                                          commodities planted in each participating
                                                                                              village by RF farmers (about 62% of
                                                                                                       UPKDs' borrowers)

 B3. Increase in yields and output, per crop Yields           Without            With     Yields             Without             With
                                                                      tons/ha                                         tons/ha
                                                 Rice1                2.0           3.0 Rice1                     2.4             2.3
                                                 Oilpalm (ffb)     10.0            22.02 Oilpalm (ffb)           12.2            17.53
                                                 Coffee             1.5              1.8 Coffee                   0.9            1.6
 B.4. Number of Agric. extension Workers          64 PPLs (4 PPLs from each Rural The training was conducted by BPTP
     (PPLs) trained                              Extension Unit (BPP) sub-district        and/or BIPP, and Consultants for technical
                                                 level                                    training.
                                                                                           PPL: 316 for all participating sub-districts
                                                                                          and 117 facilitators on technical aspect
                                                                                          and trained by BPTP
                                                                                          Regular training by BIPP for all PPLs
                                                                                          PRA training for PPLs and facilitators by
                                                                                          BRDP Consultants/NGO
                                                                                          Bookkeeping training by BRDP
                                                                                          Consultants

 B.5. Support for decentralized agricultural       New construction of 3 BIPPs            BIPP offices built (all furnished and
     extension4                                   (District extension center),            equipped):
                                                  rehabilitation of 16 BPPs               North Bengkulu (Argamakmur): building
                                                  (sub-district extension center)         334 m sq., land 2 ha.
                                                                                          Rejang Lebong (Curup): building 324 m
                                                                                          sq., land 2 ha.
                                                                                           South Bengkulu (Manna): building 370 m
                                                                                          sq., land 2 ha.
                                                                                          21 unit BPPs were rehabilitated

1
 Milled rice. The reason of rice yields went down with the project, is that during the samples taken there was virus disease
 attacked and found out that paddy plantation using more unorganic fertilizers (urea, TSP, and etc.) was more sensitive to the
 disease.
2At full maturity, year 8 of planting
3At year 5 of planting
4The activities provided for supporting the new decentralized extension system, BRDP is considered to be successful in
 establishing the new system at district level. Each Bupati (District's head) had issued decree related to the establishment of
 BIPP institution.




                                                           - 21 -

             Indicator/Matrix                           Target                       Actual/Latest Estimate
       Outcome/Impact Indicators
B6. Pilot Program of provision of         In Kecamatan Kepahyang (10        The pilot program was conducted at 6
      extension services in cooperation   villages over 2 years) with       villages with contract period of 120 days;
     with the private sector              Indonesian Coffee Exporters       however the purposes for improving the
                                          Association (AEKI) for processing processing and marketing of coffee
                                          and marketing of coffee           through the collaboration of extension
                                          In Kecamatan Kerkap (27 villages  services with the private sector was not
                                          over two years) with Indonesian   successful. AEKI had a constraint due to
                                          Rubber Association (GAPKINDO) the monetary crisis which could not
                                          for planting and processing of    support sufficient staff to provide the
                                          rubber.                           expected services.
                                                                            The pilot program for planting and
                                                                            processing of rubber with Gapkindo was
                                                                            conducted at 29 villages for 4 years.
                                                                            During the implementation GAPKINDO
                                                                            worked together with BIPP and BPTP and
                                                                            provided technology recommendation, as
                                                                            well held study tours to rubber factory for
                                                                            farmers and PPL.
B7. Revolving Fund
Total number of clients                                                                       84,144
     Men                                                                                   63,440 (75%)
     Women                                                                                 20,704 (25%)
Capital from BRDP to RF                                                                   US$6.3 million
Savings deposits                                                                    US$0.276 million (4.4%)
Interest earnings                                                                   US$0.228 million (3.6%)
Average loan size                                                                            US$ 160
Repayment Rate (average of 8 districts)                                     82% (note some districts have a repayment
                                                                            rate of over 90%)
C. Greater capacity for villages and
     government agencies to implement
     projects
C1. Number of government staff trained in                 NA                The government staff (BAPPEDA, BIPP,
     PRA.                                                                   PPL and district staff) was trained by the
                                                                            BRDP Consultant. UPKD staff were
                                                                            trained in Financial aspects. In addition,
                                                                            study tours were organized for village
                                                                            committee members to visit Java and Bali.
                                                                            Training carried out on O&M of village
                                                                            infrastructure works for 132 villages
                                                                            including preparation of maintenance
                                                                            plans.
C2. Number of Village Action Programs                 220 villages          370 villages
     prepared
C3. Field engineers and inspectors                                          32 engineers (651 person-months)

C4. Capacity building consultants and                                       8 specialists (92.5 person-months) and
     Facilitators (PRA and Micro-finance)                                   3,542 person months




                                                    - 22 -

    Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


                  Component                              Appraisal                 Actual/Latest            % of Appraisal
                                                         Estimate                   Estimate */                 Estimate
                                                       (US$ million)               (US$ million)
Village Infrastructure                                       7.6                       1.18                        15.5
Village-Based Technology Adoption and                       12.9                       8.19                        63.5
Income Generating Activities
Implementation Support/Capacity Building                     5.2                       4.48                        86.2
Total Project Costs                                         25.7                       13.85                       53.9
Total Loan Amount                                           20.5                       12.45                       60.7


    Table 2b(1). Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate)

                                        (US$ million equivalent)1
          Expenditure Category                  Procurement Method                      Total Cost
                                                                                 (including contingencies)
                                                     Other2                          NBF3 plus Other
    1. Civil Works                                        0.2                               0.2
                                                         (0.2)                             (0.2)
    2. Goods                                              0.3                               0.3
                                                         (0.3)                             (0.3)
    3.    Vehicles                                         -                                    0.5

    4. Service Delivery Contractors                       1.1                               1.1
                                                         (1.0)                             (1.0)
    5. Service Contracts (Agricultural                    0.6                               0.6
         Support Activities)                             (0.5)                             (0.5)
     6. Consulting Services                               2.7                               2.7
                                                         (2.7)                             (2.7)
    7. Training                                           0.3                               0.3
                                                         (0.3)                             (0.3)
    8. Labour4                                             -                                2.7
    9. Goods, Works and Services                          15.5                              15.5
        under Village Grants                             (15.5)                            (15.5)
    10. Recurrent Costs                                    -                                1.8
        TOTAL:                                            20.7                              25.7
                                                         (20.5)                            (20.5)


    1
      Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
    2 "Other" includes community participation, national shopping, procurement of small works, consultant selection
      the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, and GOI procedures acceptable to the Bank.
    3.N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed4. Contribution by participating farmers, in the form of their own labor (not cash).




                                                            - 23 -

     Table 2b(2). Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                              (US$ million equivalent)

                                                                     Procurement Method                                  Total
         Expenditure Category                    ICB                 NCB                      Other           NBF        Costs

    1. Civil Works                              0.00              0.00            0.146                                  0.146
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.141)                               (0.141)
     2.Goods                                    0.00              0.00             0.271                                 0.271
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.171)                               (0.171)
     3. Vehicles                                0.00              0.00                               0.174               0.174
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)
     4. Service Delivery Contractors            0.00              0.00             1.278                                 1.278
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (1.278)                               (1.278)
     5. Service Contracts (Agricultural         0.00              0.00             0.338                                 0.338
    Support Services)                          (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.335)                               (0.335)
     6. Consulting Services                     0.00              0.00             1.866                                 1.866
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (1.866)                               (1.866)
     7. Training                                0.00              0.00             0.977                                 0.977
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.885)                               (0.885)
     8. Labor 1                                 0.00              0.00
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)

     9. Goods, Works and Services under         0.00              0.00            7.099                                  7.099
    village Grants                             (0.00)             (0.00)          (7.099)                               (7.099)
     10. Incremental Operating Costs            0.00              0.00            0.676                                  0.676
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (0.675)                               (0.675)
     11. Recurrent Costs                        0.00              0.00                               1.025               1.025
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)
     Total                                      0.00              0.00            12.651             1.199              13.850
                                               (0.00)             (0.00)          (12.449)                              (12.449)



     Table 2c. Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                                Appraisal Estimate         Actual/Latest Estimate         Percentage of Appraisal
               Component                     Bank      Govt. +    CoF.     Bank      Govt.+      CoF.     Bank      Govt. +   CoF.
                                                       others 2                      others                          others
Village Infrastructure                        7.15      0.45               0.78       0.40                10.91      88.89
Village-Based Technology Adoption and         8.95      3.95               7.29       0.90                81.45      22.78
Income Generating Activities
Implementation Support/Capacity               4.40      0.80               4.38       0.10                99.55      12.50
Building
Total                                        20.50      5.20              12.45       1.40                60.73      26.92


    1
      Contribution of participating farmers, in the form of their own labor (not cash), for testing and replication of
      agricultural technologies on their own plots was not recorded; except the community contribution for village
      infrastructure about US$0.244 million ( not included in the actual project cost stated in Annex 2)
    2 The actual amount of US$0.45 million includes an amount of US$0.244 million of communities' contribution for
      village
      infrastructure



                                                           - 24 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Project Benefits

1.       At appraisal it was recognized that it was difficult, in view of the flexible, participatory and
programmatic nature of the project design to make any accurate assessment of future benefits. For the
purposes of the financial and economic analysis it was therefore assumed that farmers would adopt one of
four types of technical packages. These packages or systems and the proportion of total area covered by
each were respectively: oil palm and groundnuts 40%, coffee and groundnuts 30%, fruit trees and maize
20% and rice and fish 10%. Farmer beneficiaries were to be encouraged to adopt these and other improved
technological packages through a project financed program of establishing pioneer farmers in each village
covered by the project who would demonstrate the technology to their neighbors. However as soon as the
project started it quickly became apparent that trying to use pioneer farmers was unworkable. Accordingly
in 2000 the project design was modified to allow more flexibility in the provision of credit so as to make it
truly demand driven. At the same time the design feature of providing the finance to villages half to be
spent in infrastructure improvement and half for credit to beneficiaries through operation of the village
revolving fund was also relaxed. As a result of the latter, and since grant funding for infrastructure was
available through other government schemes, the villages chose to have only 25% of the total amount
allocated to village infrastructure and 75% to be applied to the village revolving fund.

2.       In addition to these changes the project coverage was extended. Originally it was anticipated that
some 220 villages, selected at being poverty affected would be included in the project. For the revolving
fund component this was extended to 369 villages. At appraisal it was expected that the project would
                                                                2


cover some 40,000 families, but in the event an estimated 64,000 families have benefited through 84,144
individual loans. Assuming an average household size of 3.3 persons this would indicate 211,200 direct
                    3


beneficiaries.

3.       Because of the community driven nature of the project the PAD includes no estimate of likely
impact on beneficiary income, apart from stating that it would be significant, for the two reasons that
pre-project production levels were low and the technologies to be introduced were relatively low cost.

4.       Estimating impact on beneficiaries' incomes for the ICR is problematic since there are no
aggregated records of the type and area of crops to which the credit was applied. Overall the project has
kept records on credit disbursements and recoveries, numbers of loans ­ with detail of whether taken by
men or women, and purpose ­ split into the broad categories. These are: food crops (padi and palawija)
(about 32.2% of total loans), trading (30.4%), estate crops (26.8%), services (3.7%), fisheries (2.6%),
livestock (2.4%), small industry (1.7%) and handicrafts (0.2%). Although details of the crop financed were
included in the farmer's application this data was never consolidated, and would in any case have not been
totally reliable since in a number of cases farmers changed their planting intentions as a result of seasonal
or market alterations.




________________________

1`
  Five pioneer farmers per village in the first year of the project and a further 10 in Year 2.
2 Of the 370 one UPKD (Unit Pengelolaan Keuangan Desa or Village Financial Management Unit) has been shut down -
  so the effective number is 369.
3 of which 63,440 were made to men (75%) and 20,704 to women (25%).




                                                              - 25 -

5.       Some idea of the impact of adoption of improved technology can be obtained from surveys carried
out by Balai Pengkajian Teknologi Pertanian (BPTP) Bengkulu (the Bengkulu Agricultural Technology
Research Centre) in 2004/5. These cover rice, maize, chilies, oil palm, rubber, coffee and cocoa both in
areas covered by the project and those in non-project areas. The results of these surveys are set out for the
seven crops in a Working Paper (on the project file, Tables 1 to 7). The gross margin (GM) results (after
interest charges on the incremental operating cost at 18% p.a.) show a wide variation from around -14% in
the case of rice (padi) to a 100% increase for coffee and cocoa, as summarized in the following table.
                           4




                                                 Gross Margin                     Gross Margin            With as % of
                                                       With                         Without                 Without
                                                     Rp'000                          Rp '000
                            Padi                       1,594                           1,849                   86.2%
                            Maize                      2,793                           2,568                 108.8%
                            Chilies                   30,367                          18,205                 166.8%
                            Oil palm                   5,130                           3,227                 158.9%
                            Rubber                     5,652                           4,107                 137.6%
                            Coffee                    10,208                           5,095                 200.3%
                            Cocoa                     10,255                           5,126                 200.0%


6.       Assuming that of the total loans for food crops about 50% were used for padi, 45% for maize (or
other similar palawija crops) and 5% for chilies (or other similar high value crops) and that for the estate
crops 45% were for oil palm, 25% were for rubber, 15% each for coffee and cocoa the gross margin per    5


hectare would increase from around Rp. 3.3 million (US$363) without the project to around Rp. 4.7 million
(US$509) with the project, an increase of about 40%. Related to the average farm size for the province of
around 1.82 ha, this would indicate an increase in family income from around Rp6.1 million (US$661) to
around Rp. 8.5 million (US$926).

7.       Although these figures might be useful as an illustration of the sort of income increases that may be
taking place as a result of using credit to improve agricultural production, a better overall view of the
impact of the project on incomes can be derived from M&E studies financed during implementation. These
consist of three surveys carried out by the Bengkulu State University - the last in 2004 and a detailed
survey at credit closing commissioned by the Directorate of Regional Development of the Directorate
General of Regional Development Affairs of the Ministry of Home Affairs, entitled the Bengkulu Regional
Development Project Impact Study (BRDP-IS). This latter study in July to November 2005 covered a
sample of 74 project villages (out of the 370 included in the project) as well as 18 non-project (control)
villages. In project villages some 1,480 households were interviewed and in non-project villages 180
households. On changes in income the BRDP-IS found that in areas covered by the project, income of the
sample had increased from around Rp.7.8 million (US$850) to about Rp.11 million (US$1,202) or an
increase of about 41%. In non-project areas income had increased from about Rp8.1 million (US$886) to
Rp.8.8 million (US$960), or an increase of about 8%. These results show that overall income levels are
rather better than the illustrative examples based only on income from food and estate crops presented
above, although both reflect similar proportionate increases in income.


___________________________
4
  The poor results of project villages for padi and, to a lesser extent maize, probably reflect lower resource endowments in
  project villages, since they were selected for their poverty status.
5 Estimate of proportions of the various estate crops provided by BPTP.



                                                               - 26 -

Project Costs

8.      For the purposes of the economic analysis the total project cost expenditure in each year has been
adjusted to a calendar year (Jan/Dec) basis for the 1998 to 2000 period and to constant 2006 Rupiah terms,
using the Consumer Price Index (CPI) for local costs and the MUV index for foreign costs and assuming a
project foreign exchange component of 19% (the same as estimated in the PAD). Village infrastructure
costs assume a beneficiary contribution (in labor, land, materials or cash) equivalent to 25% of the cost
borne by the project. Annual operating costs include an allowance of 10% per year on the capital cost of
infrastructure provision (including beneficiary contribution) from the year following construction. Annual
operating costs of the UPKDs have been assumed at 10% of the value of the total annual credit provided
for all purposes. This is in line with some of the UPKDs visited but higher than a number who claimed
operating costs were only 7% of the total loan portfolio.

Economic Prices and ERR Calculation

9.      As with the financial analysis the lack of any data on the type of crop and area benefited makes any
sort of economic analysis problematic. Moreover in attempting to make an analysis of the impact on
agricultural production it must be remembered that only about 59% of loans were for food and estate crops
with the rest for trade, services, fisheries, livestock, small industry and handicrafts ­ the benefits of all of
which are unknown.

10.     As already discussed under financial analysis the economic analysis undertaken at appraisal and
presented in the PAD was based on assumptions regarding adoption of four production systems (oil
palm/groundnuts 40%, coffee/groundnuts 30%, fruit trees/maize 20% and rice/fish 10%) as part of a
project design involving pioneer farmers, which was abandoned from 2000 onwards. It would therefore be
unrealistic to try to recalculate the economic rate of return based on the type of models used at appraisal.

11.     In order to get some idea of the level of likely economic benefits an economic analysis has been
attempted based on the following main assumptions:

(a)     the loan value disbursed in each year for each of the 8 categories (food crops, trading, estate crops,
        etc.) is in direct proportion to the number of such loans;
(b)     the proportion of the various food and estate crops are as already discussed in the financial
        analysis (above), i.e. for food crops padi 50%, maize (and other similar palawija crops) 45% and
        chilies (and other similar cash crops) 5%; and for estate crops oil palm 40%, rubber 25%, coffee
        15% and cocoa 20%;
(c)     the repayment performance in each year of the analysis is assumed to be 80% the same as the
        assumption made in the analysis undertaken at appraisal. Data from the BRDP-IS shows that for a
        sample of 74 UPKDs repayment performance in June 2004 and June 2005 was around 87% and
        83% respectively. No allowance has been included for any increase in the size of the revolving fund
        as a result of capitalizing income from interest payments;
(d)     the area of the various crops benefiting in each year is determined as the amount of credit available
        for each crop [based on assumptions (a), (b) and (c)] divided by the incremental crop operating
        costs given in the crop survey information (physical inputs as shown in Tables 1 to 7 of the
        Working Paper on the project file, with inputs revalued at economic prices given in Table 8 of the
        Working Paper);
(e)     benefits are assumed to be the incremental gross margin multiplied by the area benefited,
        credited in the year following release of the credit;


                                                      - 27 -

(f)      prices of the main commodities produced and fertilizers applied have been valued at border parity
         prices based on World Bank price forecasts for 2010 in 2006 constant price terms. The local cost
         component in the calculations (transport and handling, etc.) excludes any taxes. The calculation of
         the border parity prices is presented in Table 8 of the Working Paper (on the project file). Chilies
         have been treated as a non-tradable and valued at prevailing current market prices in Bengkulu.
         Input items other than fertilizer, in particular labor and crop sprays, have also been valued at local
         market prices.
(g)      no benefits have been estimated for credit provision other than for food and estate crops (i.e. no
         calculation of benefits from trading etc.), nor from improvement from infrastructure (discussed
         further below); and
(h)      the analysis assumes a project life of 20 years.


12.      Based on these estimations and assumptions the whole project economic rate of return is
re-calculated at 37% with an NPV at a 10% discount rate of Rp118,000 million or US$12.8 million               6


(Table 9 on the project file). This compares with an economic rate of return calculated at appraisal of 19%
with an NPV at a 10% discount of US$11.2 million.

13.      The main reason for the apparently much higher rate of return is probably the fact that the models
used in re-calculation of the rate of return involve only financing higher levels of input use, whereas the
models used to estimate benefits at appraisal involved adoption of new systems of production with
significant investments in the initial years for planting, stocking, etc. A second reason is that as initially
designed a much larger proportion of costs were expected to be spent on infrastructure, for which no
benefit was included in the analysis made at appraisal. During the program of field visits it was noted that
farmers were using the credit for a wide range of purposes, which included even land purchase as well as in
some instances establishment of tree crop plantations. However, as might be expected in the poor, remote
project village locations, without any credit availability except for costly private money-lenders and a
situation where the credit period was restricted to a maximum of 12 months, most beneficiaries used the
money for purchasing fertilizer and other inputs for existing crops. It should not therefore be any surprise
that the rate of return calculated is higher that calculated at appraisal.

14.      A sensitivity analysis has been made to examine the effect of changes in repayment performance
and incremental crop gross margin benefits on the economic analysis. The result of the sensitivity analysis
is summarized in the following table.




__________________________

6 At a 12% discount the NPV is calculated at Rp93,500 million or US$10.2 million.




                                                         - 28 -

              Results of the Sensitivity Analysis               ERR%     NPV at a 10% Discount Rate
                                                                          Rp million         US$ million
 Base case                                                        37       117,953              12.8
 Loan repayment 70%                                               30        65,003               7.1
 Loan repayment 60%                                              23         32,117               3.5
 Loan repayment declines 5% p.a. from 2006 onwards               35         83,638               9.1
 Crop benefits 20% lower                                         28         71,661               7.8
 Crop benefits 20% lower & repayment 70%                         20         29,987               3.3
 Crop benefits 20% lower & repayment 60%                         12          4,101                0.4
 Crop benefits 20% lower and loan repayment decline 5%            25        44,656               4.9
 p.a. from 2006 onwards.



15.       As mentioned above, no attempt has been made to estimate economic benefits from improvement in
infrastructure. The BRDP-IS report did attempt an analysis of a typical farm road as well as for an
irrigation system. For the farm road analysis it was assumed that the road allowed evacuation of fresh fruit
bunches from 50ha of new oil palm plantation, calculating an economic rate of return of 39%. For the
irrigation component it was assumed that improvement of a 50ha village irrigation scheme allowed growing
of a second padi crop, resulting in an economic rate of return of 62%.

16.       While both of these examples provided by the BRDP-IS report may be fairly typical of the type
and likely impact of small infrastructure investments funded by the project there is equally no justification
to assume that they can be taken as reliable proxies for all the various types of infrastructure
improvements. Some of the investments made, particularly the bridges would seem highly likely to show
large benefits and therefore a high economic rate of return since they would benefit from the sunk costs of
road construction on either side of the bridge and savings in both transport costs and wastage of
commodities transported. The latter savings would be very important for crops like oil palm where quality
of the oil produced depends on reasonably rapid transport to the mill. Furthermore in addition to the
transport savings and commodity benefits many of the investments would also have significant social
benefits through improved communications and thus ease of access to clinic and hospitals as well as
improved health as a result of improvement in drinking water and sanitation services. However beyond
noting that all of the investments in infrastructure improvement have the possibility of producing significant
benefits and therefore are likely to have acceptable economic rates of return, from the information available
it is not possible to estimate what this overall rate of return might be.

Reduction in Poverty as a Result of the Project

17.       The consultant study commissioned by the Ministry of Home affairs, BRDP-IS, includes
information derived from the survey sample in 1998 and in 2004. The sample survey information shows
that overall the percentage of families in poverty in the sample fell from around 45% in 1998 to about 14%
in 2004. However, as shown in the following table there are considerable differences between the various
districts, although a significant decline in poverty was common to all.




                                                      - 29 -

                                             Impact of BRDP on Poverty in the Project Area


                                                    Percentage               Percentage      Reduction in
                                                  of Families in             of Families     % of Families
                                                      Poverty                 in Poverty      in Poverty
                                                        1998                     2004
           Muko-muko                                    55.56                    14.44          41.11
           Bengkulu Utara                               53.67                    21.47          32.20
           Seluma                                       56.52                    17.39          39.13
           Bengkulu Selatan                             53.04                    29.57          23.48
           Kaur                                         53.92                    15.69          38.24
           Kepahiang                                    40.26                     9.09          31.17
           Rejanglebong                                 21.52                     2.53          18.99
           Lebong                                       23.00                     4.00          19.00
           Average                                      44.69                    14.27          30.41
         Source: Bengkulu Regional Development Project (BRDP) Impact Study by Pt. Nanditha
                  Graha Tata, Jakarta 2005.

18.     Information is lacking to allow an estimate of the employment effect of the project. With around 5
staff per village UPKD the project has provided immediate employment opportunities in the villages for
around 1,845 people. The BRDP-IS assumed that by benefiting from the loans people less than fully
employed found additional employment. Assuming an additional employment of 105 days for the 48,400
male borrowers and 85 days for the women the report calculates a total increase in employment of around
6.4million work-days. No estimate is made in the BRDP-IS report of additional employment as a result of
the nonagricultural lending ­ for trade, services, small industry etc., which absorbed about 41% of the
loans provided from the revolving credit. No data is available that would allow any estimate to be made of
the extent of such employment, although again, it may be expected to be significant.

Performance and Sustainability of the UPKDs

19.     The BRDP-IS includes useful information on the performance of the project created UPKDs, based
on a sample of 74 such units. Overall conclusions from the sample survey are encouraging. As already
mentioned repayment performance in the sample was about 87% in June 2004 and 83% in June 2005,
although performance varied quite widely between districts from as low as 62% in Kabupaten Lebong , to    7


as high as 99% in Kabupaten Muko-Muko. Arrears of payment were recorded as about 14% of total
receivables in June 2004 and about 29% of total receivables in June 2005, although again this showed
considerable variation from the worst district with around 46% and the best with only 16%. A further
measure made in the sample survey was the portfolio at risk ratio ­ the balance outstanding of loans in
arrears as a percentage of the total portfolio. This gave an overall figure of about 13%, but as with the
other indicators a fairly wide variation between the worst performer, Kabupaten Lebong at about 30% and
Kabupaten Muko-Muko again best at only 4%.




______________________________
7
  According to the BRDP-IS report, and as shown in the above table on the project impact on poverty, Kabupaten
  Lebong is also one of the districts with the smallest proportion of families in poverty.




                                                        - 30 -

20.      Based on these tests as well as a number of other indicators the report concludes that of the 74
                                                                               8


UPKDs included in the sample about 80% are healthy. This may be compared with an evaluation by the
NGO Lembaga Bina Swadaya in February 2005 (quoted in the BRDP-IS report) confined to loan
repayment performance which concluded that of the 369 total number of UPKDs about 294 UPKDs are
healthy. These latter results based on the total number of UPKDs therefore show a fairly similar picture to
that given by the 74 UPKD sample. Unfortunately no information is available to show UPKD performance
related to the number of years established.




___________________________________

8
  The full list is repayment level (%); the portfolio at risk ratio (%); bad debt provision; value of loans per UPKD
  staff member; number of customers per staff member; operational and financial self sufficiency; return on assets;
  return on equities; debt to equity ratio; and equity to asset ratio.




                                                          - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              04/07/1996                2    TTL, PARTICIPATION SPEC.
              11/26/1996                3    TTL, AGRICULTURIST,
                                             SOCIAL

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              04/16/1996                5    TTL (1), AGRONOMIST
                                             (2), , SR.COUNSEL (1), FIN
                                             MANAGEMENT (1),
                                             RURAL INST.SPEC. (1)

 Supervision

              10/05/1998                4    TTL/AGR. ECON (1);               S               S
                                             TREECROP SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGR. ECON. (1); ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              05/18/1999                3    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                             ECONOMIST (2); ENGINEER
                                             (1)
              03/11/2000                8    OVERALL COORDINATION             U               U
                                             (1); AGRICULTURIST (2);
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (1); THEMATIC
                                             LEADER (1); MONEV
                                             SYSTEM (1); CREDIT
                                             SPECIALIST (1); EXTENSION
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              11/10/2000                8    TTL/ENGINEER (1);                U               U
                                             AGRICULTURAL
                                             ECONOMIST (2); SECTOR
                                             COORDINATOR (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             LIVESTOCK SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SENIOR FMS (1); SECTOR
                                             DIRECTOR (1)
              06/14/2001                4    COMMUNITY                        U               U
                                             DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); ENGINEER -
                                             WSS (1)



              11/10/2001                4    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             MICROFINANCE (1); SENIOR
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SECTOR
                                             COORDINATOR (1)



                                              - 32 -

               05/22/2002              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PRINCIPAL AG ECONOMIST
                                           (1); CiVIL ENGINEER
                                           CONSULTANT (1); PUBLIC
                                           RELATIONS (1)
               10/22/2002              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PRINCIPAL AG. ECONOMIST
                                           (1); CIVIL ENGINEER (1)
               06/03/2003              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           SENIOR AG. ECONOMIST (1);
                                           CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FINANCIAL
                                           MANAGEMENT (1)
               12/07/2003              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           SENIOR AGR. ECONOMIST
                                           (1); CONSULTANT (1)
               04/19/2004              4   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           PRINCIPLE AG ECONOMIST
                                           (1); SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEER
                                           (1); DISBURSEMENT
                                           ANALYST (1)
               09/15/2004              2   CIVIL ENGINEER (1);                S    S
                                           FINANCIAL (1)
               04/04/2005              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                           FINANCIAL (1)
               11/24/2005              3   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           SENIOR CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                           FINANCIAL/DISBURSEMENT
                                           ANALYST (1)

 ICR
               02/12/2006             3     ICR MISSION LEADER,               S    S
                                            ENGINEER (FAO) (1);
                                            ECONOMIST, FAO
                                            CONSULTANT (1);
                                            COMMUNITY DEV.
                                            SPEC., FAO
                                            CONSULTANT (1);



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            78.2                         163.9
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 20.9                           47.0
  Supervision                          168.0                         232.7
  ICR                                   20.0                           57.2
  Total                                287.1                         500.8




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                 Rating
   Macro policies                               H       SU      M        N       NA
   Sector Policies                              H       SU      M        N       NA
   Physical                                     H       SU      M        N       NA
   Financial                                    H       SU      M        N       NA
   Institutional Development                    H       SU      M        N       NA
   Environmental                                H       SU      M        N       NA

Social
             Poverty Reduction                  H       SU      M        N       NA
             Gender                             H       SU      M        N       NA
             Other (Please specify)             H       SU      M        N       NA
   Private sector development                   H       SU      M        N       NA
   Public sector management                     H       SU      M        N       NA
   Other (Please specify)                       H       SU      M        N       NA



Other social objectives refers to the revolving fund operation. Private sector development ocurred mainly through income
generation activities through loans from the revolving fund. About 38% of loans were for non-agricultural activities such as for
small/home industries; services and trading




                                                             - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1.   Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, World Bank files.

2.   Project Appraisal Document, Bengkulu Regional Development Project, World Bank Report
     No: 17301-IND, January 14, 1998.

3.   Loan Agreement, Bengkulu Regional Development Project, Loan Number 4290-IND,
     May 1, 1998.

4.   Impact Assessment Survey, PT. Nanditha Graha Tata, August 2005.

5.   Project Monitoring & Evaluation - on UPKD & Credit Performance, P.T. Bina Swadaya,
     August 2005, and various editions.

6.   Village Infrastructure Component Report - P.T. Ardes Perdana, August 2005 and various editions.

7.   Project Monitoring & Evaluation - Yearly Report, Project Secretariat, Bappeda
     Province Bengkulu.

8.   Yearly Financial Audit Report, State Auditor (BPKP - Badan Pengawas Keuangan
     Pembangunan), various editions.

9.   Consultant Services for Procurement Post Audit and Financial Audit Reports, Price Water House
     Coopers (PWC), various editions.

10.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR) - on Adoption Technology Packages, Assessment
     Institute for Agricultural Technology (BPTP), December 2005.

11.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Bappeda Province Bengkulu, December 2005.

12.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Bappeda Districts, from eight districts, December 2005.

13.  Implementation Completion Report (ICR), Government of Indonesia, April 2006.

14.  Indonesia, Bengkulu Regional Development Project, Implementation Completion Report,
     ICR Mission's Working Paper, April 2006.




                                              - 36 -

                       BRUNEI




NOVEMBER

                                                IBRD
                Jakarta
                                                    29343R
        2005
                                 TIMOR LESTE

