Report No. PIC2865
Project Name           Indonesia-Sumatra (Bengkulu, West Sumatra and Jambi)
Regional Development Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     IDPA40061
Implementing Agencies          Directorate General of Regional
Development
(BANGDA); Provincial/Local Governments of
West Sumatra, Jambi and Bengkulu
Date PID Prepared              October 1995
Final Preparation              October 28, 1996 (Bengkulu)
March 17, 1997 (West Sumatra, Jambi)
Projected Board Dates          June 3, 1997 (Bengkulu);
October 21, 1997 (West Sumatra, Jambi)
1.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the proposed projects are:
(a) to alleviate poverty through rural development in West Sumatra,
Jambi and Bengkulu, three of the four poorest provinces in Sumatra on
the basis of GDP per capita: (b) to generate economic growth in rural
areas of these provinces where growth potential is high; and (c) to
supplement the ICDP for the Kerinci-Seblat National Park, by supporting
rural development in kabupatens (regencies) overlapping or linked with
the park.
2.   Project Description.   Each project is currently envisaged to have
four broad components. The first is agricultural development under an
integrated farming systems approach that aims at improving
sustainability, bolstering productivity and diversifying production in
agriculture, under an integrated farming systems approach rather than
through fragmented, subsector-specific interventions. The specific
activities of this component consist of: (a) re-organizing and training
of extension services (PPLs); (b) support for agricultural research; (c)
smallholder treecrop development; (d) fisheries development; and (e)
micro or village-level revolving credit. The second component deals
with capacity building for regional institutions which would participate
in project implementation and management. The third component is the
improvement of rural infrastructure that would support improvement of
minor rural infrastructure, such as upgrading of village foot paths into
village roads and provision of rural water supply, in locations critical
for the development of agriculture. The fourth component is the
development of new rural income generating activities, which might
include small village agribusinesses (e.g., rattan handicrafts,
production of banana chips) through community development, training of
farmers, dissemination of information, etc.
3.   Project Implementation. The local governments concerned, with
strong community involvement, will assume the main responsibility for
project preparation and implementation. The provincial government
concerned will be responsible for supervision and coordination of the



local governments concerned. It is envisaged that various instruments
would be used to encourage stakeholders (e.g., farmers, community
groups, government staff) to participate in preparation and
implementation. At the central level, there will be a Preparation
Coordination Committee, which will coordinate the preparation work
through the provincial task force, conduct quality control, provide
technical assistance to the provincial government and liaise with the
Bank. The Committee will be chaired by the Directorate General of
Regional Development, Ministry of Home Affairs (DG BANGDA), which would
be responsible for overall coordination, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation of the proposed projects. The various technical services
(Dinas) at the provincial, kabupaten (regency) and kecamatan (sub-
regency) levels will also be involved.
4.   Project Costs and Financing.   The total project cost is estimated
at about US$106.0 million for all three provinces, of which the Bank is
expected to finance about US$60.0 million, with the remainder (US$40.0
million) coming from the Government and (US$6.0 million) from a
cofinancier.
5.   Environmental Aspects. The projects are likely to be classified as
"category B," since the projects are not expected to have major negative
impacts on the environment, and since one of the major objectives of the
projects is to supplement the recently appraised Integrated Conservation
and Development Project for Kerinci-Seblat National Park, by generating
economic growth away from the park area. However, at this stage when the
investment profile of the projects is not yet fully developed, the
environmental category of +TBD+ (to be determined) is given. The
environmental category will be confirmed once the investment profile of
the projects become clearer. Environmental assessment will be conducted
as part of project preparation.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



