Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4290 IND
Loan Agreement
(Bengkulu Regional Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 1, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4290 IND 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 1, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995, with the 
modification of Section 6.03 set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: “Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the 
Page  2
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been 
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty 
days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, 
that an amount of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any time, the Bank determines, 
with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement and establishes the amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have been eligible 
for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank 
shall have received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to Section 6.07 with respect to 
an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and the Guarantor, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  
Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be canceled.” 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Affected Person” means a person who, on account of the execution of  
Part A.1 of the Project, has or would have his or her: (i) standard of living 
adversely affected; (ii) right, title or interest in any house, land (including 
premises, agricultural land and grazing land) or any other fixed or movable asset 
acquired or possessed, temporarily or permanently; or (iii) business, occupation, 
work, or place of residence or habitat adversely affected; 
(b)
“BANGDA” means the Directorate General of Regional Development within the 
Ministry of Home Affairs of the Borrower; 
(c)
“BAPPEDA Tk. I” means the Provincial Development Planning Agency 
established and operating within the Borrower’s Province of Bengkulu; 
(d)
“BAPPEDA Tk. II” means the Kabupaten Development Planning Agency 
established and operating within each Participating Kabupaten; 
(e)
“BAPPENAS” means the National Development Planning Agency of the Borrower 
and any successor thereto; 
(f)
“BIPP” means Balai Informasi dan Penyuluhan Pertanian, the Kabupaten 
agricultural information and extension center established and operating within each 
Participating Kabupaten;
(g)
“BPP” means Balai Penyuluhan Pertanian, a rural agricultural extension 
center established and operating at the Kecamatan level; 
(h)
"Bupati" means the Head of a Kabupaten; 
(i)
“Camat” means the head of a Kecamatan; 
(j)
“CGC” means the Central Guidance Committee maintained in accordance with 
paragraph 1 of Section A.I of Schedule 5 to this Agreement; 
(k)
“DINAS Tk. II” means a technical agency established and operating within 
a Participating Kabupaten; 
(l)
“DPU Tk. I” means the DINAS Public Works established and operating within 
the Borrower’s Province of Bengkulu; 
(m)
“DPU Tk. II” means the DINAS Public Works established and operating 
within a Participating Kabupaten;  
Page  3
(n)
“Fiscal Year” means the fiscal year of the Borrower commencing April 1 
and ending March 31; 
(o)
“GAPKINDO” means the Indonesian Rubber Association established by Notary 
Public No. 29 of April 4, 1973; and “AEKI” means the Association of Indonesian Coffee 
Exporters established by Notary Public No. 11 of November 5, 1983;
(p)
"Grant" means a grant to be made available by the Borrower to a 
Participating Village to finance a Sub-project out of the proceeds of the Loan; 
(q)
"Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement" means the framework 
prepared by the Borrower, in agreement with the Bank, for the provision of 
compensation to Affected Persons as set forth in paragraph 5 of Section B of Schedule 
5 to this Agreement and in the Guidelines for Project Implementation, and as such 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement may be amended from time to time in 
agreement with the Bank; 
(r)
"Guidelines for Project Implementation" means the general and technical 
guidelines to be prepared by the Borrower, approved by the Bank, and issued in the 
form of a Petunjuk Pelaksanaan and Petunjuk Teknis, respectively, in accordance with 
paragraph 6 (a) of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, as such Guidelines for 
Project Implementation may be amended from time to time with the agreement of the 
Bank; 
(s)
“INPPTP” means the Assessment Unit for Agricultural Technology, 
established by Decree No. 798/Kpts/OT.210/12/94 of the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Agriculture dated December 13, 1994;
(t)
“Kabupaten” means a district, an administrative division within a 
province of the Borrower; 
(u)
“Kecamatan” means an administrative sub-district within a Kabupaten; 
(v)
“Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project” means 
the project described in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement No. 4008-IND between the 
Borrower and the Bank, dated June 17, 1996, for the Kerinci-Seblat Integrated 
Conservation and Development Project, and in Schedule 2 to the Global Environment 
Facility Trust Fund Agreement No. TF-28312 between the Republic of Indonesia and the 
Bank acting as Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility, dated June 17, 
1996, for the Kerinci-Seblat Integrated Conservation and Development Project; 
(w)
“Kepala Desa” means the Head of a village; 
(x)
“LKMD” means a community resilience council within a village, headed by 
the Kepala Desa; 
(y)
“Participating Kabupaten” means Kabupaten Bengkulu Utara, Kabupaten 
Bengkulu Selatan, and Kabupaten Rejang Lebong; 
(z)
"Participating Village" means a village selected by the Borrower for 
participation in Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in paragraph 1 of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement and with the 
agreement of the Bank;
(aa)
"Pimpro" means a Project manager at the central and relevant provincial 
and Kabupaten levels; 
(bb)
“PMD Tk. I” means the Pembangunan Masyarakat Desa, the village community 
development agency, established and operating at the provincial level; 
(cc)
“PP” means Penyuluh Pertanian, an agricultural extension worker; 
(dd)
“Project Performance Indicators” means those indicators designed to 
measure the Borrower’s performance in achieving Project objectives as set forth in 
Schedule 6 to this Agreement; 
Page  4
(ee)
"Rupiah" or "Rp" means the currency of the Borrower;
(ff)
"Sub-project" means: (i) a public infrastructure investment project to be 
carried out under Part A.1 of the Project; or (ii) an investment project for the 
testing and replication of proven agriculture technologies to be carried  out  under  
Part B.1 of the Project; 
(gg)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(hh)
“Tree Crops Subsector Project” means the project described in Schedule 2 
to the Loan Agreement No. 1118-INO between the Borrower and the Asian Development 
Bank, dated December 20, 1991, for the Tree Crops Subsector Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty 
million five hundred thousand dollars ($20,500,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a state commercial bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, in the case of a state 
commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 7 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable in arrears on June 15 
and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, agricultural, engineering, environmental, financial and social 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Page  5
Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, 
procurement of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to 
ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b) 
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Page  6
Termination 
Section 5.01 The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
c/o Directorate General of Budget
Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
P. O. Box 1139
Jakarta 10710
Indonesia
Cable address:
Telex:
FINMINISTRY
45799 DJMLN-IA
Jakarta
44319 DEPKEU-IA
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
By /s/ Dorodjatun Kuntjoro-Jakti, Ambassador
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Javad Khalilzadeh-Shirazi
Acting Regional Vice President 
Page  7
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
  Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil works under
200,000
90%
 
Parts B.5 (b) and
C.3 of the Project
(2)
Goods under
300,000
100% of foreign
Parts B.3, B.4,
expenditures,
B.5 (b), B.7, C.3
100% of local
and C.5 of the
expenditures
Project, excluding
(ex-factory cost)
vehicles
and 65% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Goods, works and
 
    15,500,000
100%
services under
Sub-projects under
Parts A.1 and B.1
of the Project
(4)
Training under
300,000
90%
Parts A.2, B.2,
B.3, B.5, B.7 and
C.3 of the Project
(5)
Contracts for 
     1,000,000
90%
service delivery under
Part C.4 of the Project
(6)
Agricultural support
500,000
90%
activities under
Parts B.6 and C.2
of the Project
(7)
Consultants'
     2,300,000
100%
services
(8)
Unallocated                       400,000
TOTAL
   20,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “contracts for service delivery” means expenditures for services 
provided by contractors under Part C.4 of the Project.
Page  8
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;  and  
(b)  payments made for expenditures in respect of Category (3) until the 
Guidelines for Project Implementation have been issued pursuant to the provisions of 
paragraph 6 (b) of Section B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) civil works and goods under 
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each, except for the first procurement 
of goods or works in each of the first ten clusters of Participating Villages, costing 
$5,000 equivalent or more; (ii) contracts for service delivery; (iii) training; (iv) 
goods, works and services under Sub-projects; (v) agricultural support activities; and 
(vi) contracts for the employment of consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 
equivalent each and contracts for the employment of individuals valued at less than 
$50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in (i) alleviating 
poverty in the Province of Bengkulu through rural development; and (ii) generating 
economic growth in rural areas  of the Province of Bengkulu where growth potential is 
high.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Village Infrastructure 
1.
Carrying out of public infrastructure investment projects in about 207 
Participating Villages, through the provision of Grants to Participating Villages. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of field engineers and relevant government personnel 
from the Provincial and Kabupaten level coordination teams in providing assistance to 
Participating Villages in Project implementation procedures, through provision of 
training.
Part B:
Village-Based Technology Adoption 
1.
Carrying out of investment projects in about 220 Participating Villages for the 
testing of selected proven agricultural technologies and the replication of such 
technologies, through the provision of Grants to Participating Villages. 
2.
Strengthening the capacity of LKMD for the testing and replication of selected, 
proven agricultural technologies through on-site training by PPs. 
3.
Improvement of the production capacity and of the product quality of the rubber 
nursery of DINAS Tk. II for Tree Crops in Kabupaten Bengkulu Utara, through the 
provision of equipment, materials and training. 
4.
Improvement of the production, by farmers, of seeds for annual crops through the 
provision of technical assistance by DINAS Tk. II for Food Crops in Participating 
Kabupaten, and the provision of equipment and materials.
5.
Strengthening the capacity of BIPPs and BPPs and farmers to carry out 
decentralized agricultural extension, through:
(a)
training of BIPP and BPP staff in, among others, participatory rural 
appraisal techniques, human resource development, information packaging techniques, 
Page  9
information dissemination, and agricultural extension techniques;
(b)
construction and rehabilitation of selected BIPPs and BPPs, including 
provision of furniture, equipment and vehicles; and 
(c)
training of farmers in Participating Villages in conducting 
farmer-to-farmer extension.
6.
Carrying out of a pilot program of provision of extension services by the 
Borrower in cooperation with the private sector in the following areas:
(a)
in Kecamatan Kepahyang with AEKI for processing and marketing of coffee; 
and
(b)
in Kecamatan Kerkap with GAPKINDO for planting and processing of rubber.
7.
Strengthening Project implementation capacity of Project-related government 
staff of the Participating Kabupatens, through: (a) provision of office equipment, 
furniture and vehicles for BAPPEDA Tk. II; and (b) workshops on Project supervision, 
monitoring and evaluation.
Part C:
Capacity Building and Implementation Support 
1.
Strengthening the capability in technical, financial and administrative matters 
of LKMD and village implementation teams through the provision of services and 
technical support to LKMD in design and construction of village infrastructure, by 
field engineers. 
2.
Identification of relevant agricultural technology packages, preparation of BPP 
and PP guidelines for each agricultural technology package, and monitoring and 
analysis of the tests conducted by farmers, by INPPTP. 
3.
Strengthening Project implementation capacity of Project-related government 
staff of the Province of Bengkulu through: (a) the construction of office space for 
BAPPEDA Tk. I, and provision of office equipment, furniture and vehicles for BAPPEDA 
Tk. I; (b) technical assistance; and (c) workshops on Project supervision, monitoring 
and evaluation. 
4.
Strengthening the capacity of LKMDs to identify Sub-projects, prepare action 
plans for proposed Sub-projects, and implement approved Sub-projects, through the 
provision of services by community development facilitators. 
5.
Dissemination of information by PMD Tk. I on the concept of, and procedures for, 
Project implementation, to Participating Villages and relevant agencies, including 
provision of office equipment, furniture and a vehicle to PMD Tk. I. 
6.
Carrying out of Project beneficiaries’ surveys in the Participating Villages. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Interest and Principal Repayment 
Provisions A. General Definitions
For purposes of this Schedule, the following terms have the following meanings: 
(a)
“Disbursed Amount” means, in respect of each Interest Period, the 
aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn from the Loan Account in such 
Interest Period. 
(b)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including an Interest 
Page  10
Payment date to, but excluding, the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(c)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement. (d)
“Rate Fixing Date” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the first day 
of the Interest Period next following the Interest Period in which such Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn. 
B.
Interest 
1.
The principal amount of the Loan shall be divided into Disbursed Amounts.  
Interest shall accrue on each Disbursed Amount outstanding from time to time at a rate 
based on a floating rate index prior to its Rate Fixing Date and at a fixed rate from 
its Rate Fixing Date, as described in paragraph 2 of this Part B.
2.
(a)
From the date of withdrawal of each amount of each Disbursed Amount 
withdrawn and outstanding, to but not including the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, interest on each such amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
LIBOR Base Rate; plus
(ii)
LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
From the Rate Fixing Date for each Disbursed Amount until final repayment 
thereof, interest on such Disbursed Amount shall accrue, at a rate equal to the 
applicable:
(i)
Fixed Base Rate; plus
(ii)
Fixed Total Spread.
3.
For purposes of paragraph 2 of this Part B, the following terms have the 
following meanings: 
(a)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for the Interest Period in which a Disbursed 
Amount is withdrawn, the London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in 
dollars for value the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the day occurring on the Interest Payment Date 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(b)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for the Interest Period in which each 
Disbursed Amount is withdrawn:
(i)
one half of one percent (1/2 of 1%);
(ii)
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such Interest 
Period, below 
(or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the 
Bank's outstanding borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the 
Bank to fund single currency loans or 
portions thereof made by 
it that include such Disbursed Amount for such 
Interest 
Period; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum. 
(c)
“Fixed Base Rate” means, for each Disbursed Amount, the equivalent of the 
London interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in dollars for value on the Rate 
Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount, expressed as a single fixed interest rate based 
on the fixed interest rates corresponding to the repayment installments of such 
Disbursed Amount, as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage 
per annum.
(d)
“Fixed Total Spread” means, for each Disbursed Amount: 
(i)
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%); 
(ii)
minus (or plus) the cost margin,  applicable on the Rate Fixing 
Date for such 
Disbursed Amount, below (or above) the London 
Page  11
interbank offered rates, or 
other reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank's 
outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof allocated to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include such Disbursed Amount; plus 
(iii)
the Bank's risk spread applicable on the Rate Fixing Date for such 
Disbursed 
Amount; as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed 
as a percentage per 
annum. 
4.
The Bank shall notify the  Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate, LIBOR Total Spread, 
Fixed Base Rate and Fixed Total Spread applicable to each Disbursed Amount, promptly 
upon the determination thereof. 
5.
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Schedule, the Bank determines that it is in the 
interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining 
the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as provided in this Schedule, the 
Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to amounts of 
the Loan not yet withdrawn upon not less than six (6) months' notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
C.
Repayment 
1.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 2 of this Part C, the Borrower shall 
repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 15 and December 15, the first such installment to be payable on the seventh (7th) 
Interest Payment Date following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount and the 
last such installment to be payable on the twelfth (12th) Interest Payment Date 
following the Rate Fixing Date for such Disbursed Amount. Each installment shall be 
one-sixth (1/6) of such Disbursed Amount. 
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part C, if any installment 
of principal of each Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the provisions of said 
paragraph 1, be payable after June 15, 2013, the Borrower shall also pay on said date 
the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
3.
After each Disbursed Amount shall have been withdrawn, the Bank shall promptly 
notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for such Disbursed Amount.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding Except as otherwise provided in this Part, goods 
and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping 
procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Direct Contracting
Page  12
Agricultural support activities which must be procured from a particular 
supplier may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Community Participation 
Goods and works required for Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project shall be procured 
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may be 
procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations 
obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in response to a written 
invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required 
work, and who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $100,000 or more, and the first procurement of goods or works in each of 
the first 10 clusters of Participating Villages, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$5,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants Service Delivery 
Contractors
Community development facilitators under Part C. 4 of the Project shall be 
procured in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Page  13
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 5 
Implementation Program
Section A:
Agencies and Institutions Responsible for Project Implementation 
I.
Project Coordination
The Borrower shall ensure that the following arrangements for Project 
coordination are maintained until completion of the Project: 
1.
The CGC shall be responsible for coordination of the Project at the central 
level and shall provide policy guidance. The CGC shall be chaired by BAPPENAS, through 
its Deputy for Regional Development. Members shall include the Ministry of Finance 
(Directorate General of Budget), Ministry of Home Affairs (BANGDA and Directorate 
General for Public Administration and Regional Autonomy (PUOD) and the Directorate 
General for Village Community Development), and the Ministry of Agriculture 
(Secretariat General and Agency for Agricultural Research and Development). BANGDA, 
through its Directorate of Area Development, shall be the Secretariat of the CGC. 
2.
BAPPEDA Tk. I shall be responsible, at the provincial level, for the 
coordination of Project activities with other relevant agencies of the Borrower. 
3.
BAPPEDA Tk. II in each Participating Kabupaten shall be responsible, at the 
Kabupaten level, for the coordination of Project activities with other relevant 
agencies of the Borrower.
4.
The Pimpro at BAPPEDA Tk. I shall be responsible for the coordination of the 
Project at the provincial and Kabupaten levels. 
Page  14
5.
The Pimpro at DPU Tk.I shall be responsible for the management of the field 
engineering services and the implementation of the training for field engineers. 
6.
In each Participating Kabupaten there shall be a Pimpro responsible for the 
coordination of Part A.1 of the Project and another Pimpro responsible for the 
coordination of Part B of the Project.
II.  Project Implementation
The Borrower shall ensure that the following arrangements for Project 
implementation are maintained until completion of the Project: 
1.
BAPPEDA Tk. I shall, not later than July 15, 1998, employ INPPTP, in accordance 
with Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, to carry out the technology testing 
and monitoring under Part C of the Project. 
2.
PMD Tk. I shall be responsible for the dissemination of information under Part 
C.5 of the Project. 
3.
DPU Tk. II shall be responsible for the administration of Project activities 
under Part A.1 of the Project, including entering into village implementation 
agreements with LKMDs, and shall delegate technical and field work to field engineers. 
4.
BIPP in each Participating Kabupaten shall carry out the administration and 
supervision of Project activities under Part B.1, B.2, B.5 and B.6 of the Project. 
5.
The LKMD in each Participating Village shall implement Sub-projects approved for 
such Participating Village under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project.
Section B:
Implementation Actions under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project
1.
The Borrower shall select a Participating Village under Parts A.1 and B.1 of the 
Project on the basis of the following criteria and procedures:
(a)
Criteria:
(i)
the village is located in a Participating Kabupaten;
(ii)
the village has not been selected to participate under the 
Kerinci-Seblat 
Integrated Conservation and Development 
Project or the Tree Crops Subsector 
Project;
(iii)
priority shall be given to villages classified, by the Borrower’s 
village 
surveys (Tipologi dan Klasifikasi Tingkat 
Perkembangan Desa Propinsi 
Bengkulu), in the highest 
categories of poverty; and
(iv)
selected villages shall be located in clusters of at least three 
villages. 
(b)
Procedures:
(i)
Before July 31, 1998, BAPPEDAs Tk. II shall select the 
Participating Villages, 
such selection to be made from the list of 
villages agreed between the 
Borrower and the Bank, and taking 
into account the criteria described under 
paragraph 1 (a) of this 
Section; and BAPPEDA Tk. I shall furnish the 
consolidated list to 
the Bank for approval, by not later than August 1, 1998; 
and
(ii)
Bupatis and Camats shall provide to the Participating Villages, by 
not later 
than September 30 of the year preceding the start of the 
activities under  
Parts A.1 and B.1 of the Project, and until 
completion of the Project, public 
information on aspects pertaining 
to the selection, design, preparation and 
implementation of 
Sub-projects, and the existence of the Guidelines for 
Project Implementation.
Page  15
2.
A proposed Sub-project selected by a Participating Village shall qualify as 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan only if: 
(a)
the Sub-project proposed under Part A.1 of the Project is a public 
infrastructure investment project, as described in the Guidelines for Project 
Implementation, and is technically and environmentally viable, and economically 
justified by the number of beneficiaries; 
(b)
the Sub-project proposed under Part B.1 of the Project is a testing by 
pioneer farmers and replication of agricultural technologies which are technically and 
environmentally viable, as described in the Guidelines for Project Implementation;
(c)
the estimated aggregate cost of:  (i) the Sub-projects under Part A.1 of 
the Project in a Participating Village is not more than Rp. 90,000,000, including the 
proposed Sub-project; and (ii) the Sub-projects under Part B.1 of the Project in a  
Participating  Village  is  not more than Rp. 90,000,000 including the proposed 
Sub-project; and 
(d)
the Sub-project proposal has been publicly discussed among, and agreed to 
by, the villagers in the Participating Village under the coordination of the Kepala 
Desa and LKMD.
3.
The Borrower shall, through the relevant Pimpro, ensure that, prior to the 
carrying out of the Sub-project: 
(a)
for a Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project, the field engineer shall 
have completed the technical review, and for a Sub-project under Part B.1 of the 
Project, the relevant BPP shall have completed the technical review; and
(b)
the field engineer for a Sub-project under Part A.1 of the Project, and 
the relevant BPP for a Sub-project under Part B.1 of the Project, shall have confirmed 
the following:
(i)
all selection criteria described under paragraph 2 of this Section 
have been 
complied with;
(ii)
all necessary measures have been taken to avoid or minimize land 
acquisition 
and displacement of Affected Persons under the proposed 
Sub-project in 
accordance with the provisions of the 
Guidelines for Project Implementation, 
and the Guidelines for 
Compensation and Resettlement have been complied with, 
and, if 
applicable, appropriate compensation arrangements have been completed 
and are satisfactory to the Affected Persons as set forth under such 
Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement and paragraph 5 below;
(iii)
procurement of civil works, goods and services, has been carried 
out in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement and the 
provisions of the Guidelines for Project 
Implementation;
(iv)
an implementation plan for the Sub-project has been prepared in 
accordance 
with the provisions of the Guidelines for Project 
Implementation; and
(v)
a maintenance program for the works to be carried out under the 
public 
infrastructure Sub-project has been prepared in 
accordance with the Guidelines 
for Project Implementation which shall 
include assignment of maintenance 
responsibilities in the 
respective Participating Village, the preparation of 
training programs to 
strengthen the maintenance capabilities of the 
Participating Village, and the identification of available sources of 
financing to carry out such programs. 
4.
The Borrower shall cause the Participating Villages to carry out the 
Sub-projects selected in accordance with paragraph 3 of this Section for the 
respective Fiscal Year, in accordance with the Guidelines for Project Implementation.
Page  16
5.
In carrying out Part A.1 of the Project: 
(a)
the Borrower shall take measures to avoid or minimize the acquisition of 
land or assets of villagers and to avoid the displacement of said villagers; 
(b)
where the acquisition of land or assets or the displacement of villagers 
is unavoidable under a proposed Sub-project, the Borrower shall, before carrying out 
the works which would result in such acquisition or displacement, make available to 
such villagers, compensation in accordance with the Guidelines for Compensation and 
Resettlement; and
(c)
in the event that two hundred or more villagers are adversely affected by 
a Sub-Project, the Borrower shall:
(i)
prepare a resettlement plan in accordance with the Guidelines for 
Compensation 
and Resettlement and furnish such plan to the Bank for 
approval; and
(ii)
prior to the carrying out of the Sub-project, ensure that all 
Affected Persons 
shall have been compensated in accordance with the 
provisions of said plan.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare Guidelines for Project Implementation for Fiscal Years 1999/2000 
through 2003/2004 to assist the Participating Villages in the implementation of the 
Project, such Guidelines to include the description of, among others, procurement 
procedures and standard documentation, reporting requirements, the Project Performance 
Indicators, Guidelines for Compensation and Resettlement, environmental criteria 
applicable to Sub-project design, maintenance provisions for works to be carried out 
under Part A.1 of the Project and criteria for the selection of Sub-projects, and 
furnish such Guidelines for Project Implementation to the Bank for approval; 
(b)
issue the approved Guidelines for Project Implementation and ensure that, 
until completion of the Project, the Guidelines are made available to Participating 
Villages and applied in the carrying out of Sub-projects; and 
(c)
periodically update the Guidelines for Project Implementation, if needed, 
in consultation with the Bank. 
7.
The  Borrower shall,  by not later than May 1 in each Fiscal Year, cause DPU Tk. 
II (for Sub-projects under Part A.1 of the Project) and BIPP (for Sub-projects under  
Part B.1 of the Project) to select and employ, and, thereafter, maintain until the 
completion of the Project, qualified and experienced Pimpros, in adequate numbers. The 
Pimpro shall be responsible for assisting the LKMD in the record keeping of 
expenditures incurred by the Borrower during the implementation of the Project.
8.
The Borrower shall cause each Participating Village to establish and maintain a 
revolving fund for purposes of replication activities under Part B.1 of the Project, 
in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Guidelines for Project 
Implementation, such guidelines to include that funds for replication activities shall 
be on-lent to farmers on terms and conditions set forth in the Guidelines for Project 
Implementation.
Section C:
Other Implementation Actions
1.
The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 
6 to this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about April 30, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Page  17
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
not later than July 31, 1998, employ the consultants required for the 
carrying out of Part C.3 (b) of the Project; and
(b)
not later than January 31, 1999, employ the consultants required for the 
carrying out of Part C.1 of the Project. 
3.
In carrying out Part C.6 of the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than 
October 31 in each year, commencing October 31, 1999, and until completion of the 
Project,  carry out the Project beneficiaries’ surveys and furnish the results of the 
surveys to the Bank for comments not later than three months after the completion of 
the surveys. 
4.
The Borrower shall carry out the training under Parts A.2, B.3, B.5 and C.3 of 
the Project in accordance with training programs acceptable to the Bank. 
5.
The Borrower shall provide the vehicles required under Parts B.5(b), B.7 and C.5 
of the Project in accordance with a schedule agreed with the Bank.
SCHEDULE 6 
Project Performance Indicators
1.
Improved village infrastructure:
(a)
Indicator: completion of infrastructure works in Participating Villages.
(b)
Target:
(i)
village infrastructure completed by the villagers themselves for 
at least 25 
Participating Villages by March 31, 2000; and 
(ii)
village infrastructure completed by the villagers themselves for 
at least 166 
Participating Villages by March 31, 2002.
2.
Adoption of new agricultural technologies:
(a)
Indicator: Number of farmers testing new agricultural technologies on 
their own plots.
(b)
Target:
(i)
at least 160 farmers conducted the testing on their own plots, by 
March 31, 
2000; and 
(ii)
at least 1,800 farmers conducted the testing on their own plots, 
by March 31, 
2002.
SCHEDULE 7 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (7) set forth 
Page  18
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,200,000 
to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to 
$600,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent 
of $2,400,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
Page  19
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished  
to  the  Bank,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly  upon  notice from the Bank: (A) 
provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the 
Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. 
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special 
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
