E-373
World Bank                                                             Republic of Djibouti
Proposed School Access and Improvement Project
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Preamble:
The School Access and Improvement Project is intended to provide the Government of the
Republic of Djibouti with effective support in developing the country's education capacities through three
types of actions:
*     Improving access by increasing the capacity of a number of existing primary schools and creating
conditions for increased enrollment of girls.
*     Improving the quality of instruction by providing textbooks and contributing to better training of
principals with regard to school management.
*     Improving the efficiency of higher education by developing access to the virtual university on the
Internet.
TIhis project, financed by the World Bank through an IDA credit, is subject to the World Bank's
implementation criteria for Category B projects, as set out in its Operational Manual (Section 4.01).
Accordingly, this Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will form an integral part of the project
implementation documents.
Institutional and Legal Context
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK
From the institutional standpoint, the holding of the Education Etats-Generaux over the period
December 2-7, 1999 was of great importance for the education sector. The event resulted in enactment of
a framework law on the education system.
The education sector benefits from several multilateral (European Union, UNDP, World Bank,
African Development Bank, etc.) and bilateral (Japan, Saudi Arabia, France, etc.) cooperation programs,
with an emphasis on school construction.
Where environmental matters are concerned, this sector was recently placed under the Ministry of
Housing, Urban Development, Environment, and Regional Development. Here, too, an extensive
participatory process was launched in the context of preparation of the National Environmental Action
Plan (NEAP), with the national NEAP validation forum held April 10-12, 2000 playing an important role.



REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
A national education master plan will be the subject of extensive consultation among the parties
concerned, particularly on the occasion of the national conference scheduled for next October.
The country's General Environmental Law, expected to be promulgated very shortly, is divided
into four major titles:
Title 1:        Concepts, Objectives and General Principles, and Institutional Organization
Title 2:        Protection of Environments
Title 3:        Protection of Animal and Plant Species
Title 4:        Regulation of Pollution
Implementing decrees should quickly specify the conditions for putting the main chapters of this
framework legislation into effect.
OTHER AGENCIES AND BODIES INVOLVED
As regards environmental education, the Directorate of the Environment maintains close
collaboration with the National Education Research and Pedagogic Information Center [Centre de
recherche et d'information pedagogique - CRIPEN], in particular through the formulation of an
awareness campaign strategy on environmental problems.
Infrastructure facilities in the education sector are provided by the Directorate of Housing, Urban
Development, Environment, and Regional Development. However, as the current reform process is not
yet completed, a number of serious malfunctions are preventing the Directorate from performing the role
of executing agency assigned to it in the past. In the project now in preparation, the executing agency
role will be played, in part for the first year, by the Djiboutian Executing Agency for Works of Public
Interest [Agence djiboutienne d'execution des travaux d'interet publique - ADETIP], which has benefited
from technical assistance with environmental impact assessments under previous projects financed by the
World Bank. The Projects Office of the Ministry of Education will be the contracting authority's
representative for implementation of this project.
Because the system for gathering and analyzing data on the public health system is no longer
operational, as was confirmed during the visit made to Djibouti's Pelletier Hospital and to the Djibouti-
City health district, reliable county-wide epidemiological data are unfortunately unavailable. This state of
affairs applies to the school population in particular. Under these conditions, it will be difficult to define
and use indicators capable of measuring the success of actions to mitigate the environmental impacts of
the project.
Potential Impacts of the Project
The mission by a World Bank environment specialist to the Republic of Djibouti in June 2000
confirmed the degraded situation of the sanitary facilities at all of the schools visited. Discussions with
school staff and parents of students revealed the concern felt by the latter regarding the adverse effects of
the situation on the students. The keeping of photographic archives was begun during this mission.



The impacts considered will not be due solely to the project but also to the prevailing situation,
which is characterized by significant degradation of the existing facilities. Since a particular aim of the
project is to increase the capacity of some thirty schools, the main environmental measure to be included
in the project will be to construct or rehabilitate the sanitary facilities of these schools, and to design a
system of upkeep and maintenance that will ensure the appropriate functioning of the schools.
Mitigation Measures
Activity          Potential impacts     Mitigation measures        Responsible
Use of unsuitable     Technical works        Ministry of Education
materials in the       specifications
Rehabilitation and     construction of       prescribing the quality
expansion of schools    classrooms           of materials to be used
for fireproofing and
insulation (no asbestos)
and also prohibiting use
of lead-based paint
Health risks on account  Construction of     Ministry of Education
of expansion of the   additional sanitary
schools and the       facilities
increased need for
sanitary facility
Health risks because  Rehabilitation of      Ministry of Education
existing facilities not in  existing facilities
good operating order
Improvement of school  Degradation of health    Preparation of an   Ministry of Education
management             conditions due to      environmental training
limited management    program for school
abilities of school   principals
principals
Improvement of         Health risks due to    Preparation of an      Ministry of Education
teaching conditions.   ignorance of collective   awareness-raising  (CRIPEN)
and individual hygiene   campaign aimed at
measures in the school  teachers, students and
environment.          parents
Risks stemming from   Design and introduction  Ministry of Education
upkeep and maintenance  of an upkeep and
problems              maintenance system
Although a number of actions cannot be included in the project, the Djiboutian authorities have
been advised to take the following steps in order to facilitate subsequent decision-making on health and
environmental issues in the school environment:
*     An epidemiological study on the health situation of children attending the schools, including an
attempted breakdown of the causes of the morbidity observed.
*     In conjunction with the preceding action, improvement of the school medical system in order to
track the development of the health status of children enrolled in school.



*     A  national awareness/sensitization program  regarding individual and collective hygiene,
especially in schools.
Monitoring Measures
Activity              Indicator          Responsible entity         Frequency
Construction of        Number of toilets built   Executing agency    Six-monthly
additional classrooms
Rehabilitation of      Number of toilets      Executing agency       Six-monthly
existing sanitary     repaired
facilities
Training and           Number of principals    Ministry of Education    Six-monthly
sensitization actions  trained.
Number of
teachers/students/
parents reached by
sensitization actions.
Upkeep and             Number of repair and    Ministry of Education    Six-monthly
maintenance of sanitary  maintenance
facilities             interventions.
Promptness of response
by responsible entities
Planning of EMP Implementation
Table 1.   Implementation Planning
Activities            Year 1                   Year 2                   Year 3
Qi   Q2   Q3   Q4   Ql   Q2   Q3    Q4   Ql   Q2    Q3    Q4
Construction of        XX   XX                  XX   XX                  XX   XX
additional
classrooms
Rehabilitation of  XX        XX           XX           XX          XX           XX
existing sanitary
facilities-
Training and                  XX XX                    XX   XX                  XX   XX
sensitization
actions
Upkeep and              X            X           X            X            X           X
maintenance of
sanitary facilities



Cost of EMP Implementation
Table 2.    Estimated Implementation Cost
Activities                     |                Total cost in US$
Design and construction of sanitary facilities                 Included in infrastructure cost
Rehabilitation of existing sanitary facilities                 Included in infrastructure cost
Training and sensitization actions                                         10,000
Upkeep and maintenance of sanitary facilities                             30,000
TOTAL                                                                     40,000
July 23, 2000
/HEBSullivan
P:\Djibouti\Hd\44585\APPR\ENV Mgt Plan ENG.doc
8/3/00 9:00 AM



