Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 20803-DJI
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.8 MILLION
(US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
FOR A
FIRST PHASE OF THE
SCHOOL ACCESS AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
November 17, 2000
Human Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 24, 2000)
Currency Unit          Djibouti Francs (DF)
DF 173.60    =    US$1.00
US$1.00    =    DF 173.6
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADETIP        Djiboutian Executing Agency for Works of Public Interest
AIDS          Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
APL          Adaptable Program Loan
BEPE         Executing Unit
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CFPEN        Personnel Training Center for National Education
CNOSEGE    Comite National d'Organisation et de Suivi des Etats Generaux de l'Education
CRIPEN       National Education Research and Information Production Center
DF           Djiboutian Francs
DGEN         Directorate General for National Education
EA           Environmental Assessment
EMP          Environmental Management Plan
GCC          Gulf Cooperation Council
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GER          Gross Enrollment Rate
GPN          General Procurement Notice
HIV          Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
IMF          International Monetary Fund
LACI         Loan Administration Change Initiative
MHUAT        Ministry of Housing, Urban Development, Environment, and Regional Development
MIS          Management Information System
MOE          Ministry of Education
NEAP         National Environmental Action Plan
NER          Net Enrollment Rate
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PMR          Project Management Report
PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
S/A           Special Account
SAC          Structural Adjustment Credit
SIL          Sector Investment Loan
SOE          Statements of Expenditures
UNDP         United Nations Development Programme
US$          United States Dollar
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Manager/Director:    Inder K. Sud
Sector Manager/Director:   Jacques Baudouy
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:     Qaiser M. Khan



DJIBOUTI
SCHOOL ACCESS AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM
CONTENTS
A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE ..................2
1. Program   purpose  and  program   phasing ................................................................                                   2
2. Project development objective ................................................................3
3. Key  performance  indicators ...............................................................3
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT ................................................................3
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project ........3
2. Main  sector issues and  Government strategy ................................................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ................................6
4. Program   description  and  performance  triggers for subsequent loans ............                                              ................8
C. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY ........................................... 10
1. Project components ...........................................................                                                                10
2. Key  policy  and  institutional reforms supported  by  the project ..................                                       .................... I 1
3. Benefits and  target population ...........................................................                                                   11
4. Institutional and  implementation  arrangements ........................................................... 1  1
D. PROJECT RATIONALE ...............................................................                                                                       13
1. Project alternatives considered  and  reasons for rejection .............................................. 13
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies ............. 14
3. Lessons learned  and  reflected  in  proposed  project design ............................................. 14
4. Indications of borrower commitment and  ownership .................................................... 15
5. Value  added  of Bank  support in  this project ...............................................................   16
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS ...............................................................                                                                16
1. Economic ...............................................................                                                                      16
2. Financial ...............................................................                                                                     17
3. Technical ...............................................................                                                                     17
4. Institutional ...............................................................                                                                 17
5. Environmental ...............................................................                                                                  19
6. Social ...............................................................                                                                        20
7. Safeguard Policies ...............................................................                                                            22
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS ...............................................................                                                                22
1. Sustainability ...........................................................                                                                   22
2. Critical risks ...........................................................                                                                    23
3. Possible controversial aspects ........................................................... 23



G. MAIN CONDITIONS .................................                                     23
1. Effectiveness condition .................................                       23
2. Other .................................                                         23
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION .................................                        24
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES .................................                       25
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Sumnmary
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4: Economic Analysis
Annex 5: Financial Summary
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 10: Country at a Glance
Annex 11: Environmental Management Plan
Annex 12: Government's Sector Policy letter
MAP IBRD 23069R



DJIBOUTI
School Access and Improvement Program
Project Appraisal Document
Middle East and North Africa Region
MNSHD
Date: November 17, 2000                              Team Leader: Qaiser M. Khan
Country Director: Inder K. Sud                       Sector Director: Baudouy
Project ID: P044585                                  Sector(s): EP - Primary Education, ES - Secondary
.   Education
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)     Theme(s): Education; Gender and development
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Fin ncing Data
Estimated
APL              Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period (Bank FY)      Borrower
IBRD              Others     Total   COMMITMENT             Closing
US$ m       %      US$ m     US$ m          Date             Date
APL 1          10.00      75.8     3.20     13.20      03/31/2001       06/30/2005         Republic of
Loan/   Credit                                                                        Djibouti
Credit                                                                               Ministry of
________________     Education
APL 2           10.0      65.8     5.20     15.20      07/01/2005       06/30/2008         Republic of
Loan/   Credit                                                                        Djibouti
Credit                                                                               Ministry of
i_________ ________________                      Education
APL 3          10.00      41.0    14.40    24.40       07/01/2008       06/30/2011         Republic of
Loan/   Credit                                                                        Djibouti
Credit                                                                               Ministry of
Education
Total          30.00              22.80    52.80
Project Financing Data Credit
For Loans/Credits/Others: Amount (US$m): 10.0
Proposed Terms: Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                              Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: 0.50% (0% for FY01)                   Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan: Source
Source                                                     Local           Foreign           Total
GOVERNMENT                                                   0.40            0.00              0.40
IDA                                                          3.40            6.60             10.00
OTHER SOURCES (UNIDENTIFIED)                                 0.20            0.40              0.60
Total:                                                       4.00            7.00             11.00
Borrower: REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
Address: BP 2, Djibouti-Ville, Republique de Djibouti - www.educ.dj
Contact Person: Mr. Fathi, Directeur general de l'Education nationale (MEN) Tel: 253-35-08-50  Fax: 253-35-18-69
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):
FY               2001              2002            2003           2004               2005
Annual        1.0              3.0               3.0           2.5              0.5
Cumulative        1.0              4.0              7.0           9.5              10.0
Project implementation period: 2001-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 03/31/2001  Expected closing date:  06/30/2005



2
A. PROGRAM PURPOSE AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE
1. Program purpose and program phasing
With the advent of a new Government, the Ministry of Education undertook a fundamental review of
Djibouti's education system with a view to achieving universal access to basic education and
modifying the system to be more responsive to Djibouti's development needs. The Government
undertook a consultative process to develop their education reform proposals including convening a
National Education Forum (Etats Genraux) in December, 1999, bringing together all elements of civil
society and Government who have a stake in education issues. The participants in the National Forum
included the President, parliamentarians, trade unionists, NGOs, Ministry of Education staff including
teachers and administrators, students and parent representatives. The report from this Forum has been
published and widely disseminated, and has led to a series of reform proposals which are being
followed up by a permanent committee (Comite National d'Organisation et de Suivi des Etats
Genrraux) - better known by its acronym CNOSEGE. The CNOSEGE has taken the lead in all areas
of reform, and has commissioned several studies (see Section D-2 for details). Many of the changes
recommended by the Etats Generaux were codified into a new education law which was adopted in
August, 2000 (Loi d'Orientation du Systeme Educatif).
The new law provides for: (a) guaranteed education for all children aged 6-16 years old; (b) increased
teaching of Arabic in the curriculum and eventually instruction in Afar and Somali but maintains
French as the main medium of instruction; (c) improved quality of education through a variety of
measures; (d) the inclusion of parents and students in school management committees; (e) increased
compulsory education to 9 years; (f) replacement of the competitive examination at the end of the
lower secondary (or middle school) level with an assessment test; and (g) public financial support to
private provision of education at all levels of education.
The Government has developed a ten-year perspective plan (Plan Directeur) to implement the
reforms. The new nine-year compulsory basic education system will be fully implemented starting
September, 2002, in order to provide adequate time to develop and test the new curriculum and
associated pedagogic materials. This fundamental change will require a significant increase in school
facilities as they are already overcrowded, and the Government is seeking extensive donor support to
help expand system capacity and to help overall with the reform. Consequently, the Government
organized a Roundtable Donors Meeting for Education in Djibouti from October 9 to 11, 2000, which
was attended by many donors. The Government had also received pledges of support from the Arab
Donors meeting organized in Kuwait by the Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development.
IDA will support this program with a credit of approximately US$30.0 million through an Adaptable
Program Loan (APL) approach, broken down into three Phases. Phase I will support the immediate
needs of increasing capacity and quality in primary schools, and finance recurrent costs such as
contract teacher salaries. Phase II will continue to support classroom expansion but with greater
attention paid to middle school construction, to take into account the number of places needed for the
new nine year compulsory education and the increased flow of students from the primary to the middle
school cycle. The demand for middle school places is expected to increase sharply around 2007.
Books and educational materials will also be financed. In addition, the second phase will look at the
outcome of pilot studies, strategies that were financed under phase I for further development and/or
implementation. It is expected that about 40% of resources from this tranche will go to support
contract teacher salaries. Phase III will concentrate on expanding capacity, with far less attention to
salaries as public finance and macroeconomic reforms free up more budget resources to help pay for
teacher salaries.



3
2. Project development objective (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to enhance the quality of education and to increase enrollment in
primary schools.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The key performance indicator is an increased number of students enrolled in grades 1-9, especially
among girls.
B. STRATEGIC CONTEXT
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1)
Document number: P 7403 DJI            Date of latest CAS discussion: (scheduled for) 12/19/00
The CAS has been prepared in the context of the country's economic difficulties and deepening
poverty. Despite Djibouti's relatively high nominal per capita income (US$790 versus an average of
US$510 for Sub-Saharan Africa, and US$100 for Ethiopia), Djibouti has one of the poorest social
indicators in the world (poverty, illiteracy, maternal and infant mortality, and morbidity), according to
the UNDP Human Development Index, ranking 157th among 174 countries.
The Republic of Djibouti has very few natural resources and the economy is mainly dependent on the
port, external financial assistance, the French military and associated services. However, with the
decreased amount of external assistance, and deepening structural problems, the country has suffered
economic stagnation over the past decade and a half. As a result, per capita Gross Domestic Product
(GDP) declined by 50% in real terms since 1985. The switch of Ethiopia's transit traffic from Assab in
Eritrea to Djibouti in mid-1998 and the consequent four-fold increase in port traffic has opened new,
as yet not fully exploited, opportunities for investment and growth. Djibouti's open economic policies
and relative stability, characterized by a liberal trade policy and exchange system, which operates free
of capital or exchange restrictions, should, with the right macro and structural policy reforms, help in
that effort.
Human development is a major element in Djibouti's development strategy because the country has
very little other natural resources. Its growth strategy depends on its human resource base and
exploiting its strategic location (i.e. the port). To increase the benefits from the port, Djibouti needs to
become a cost-effective competitor. As wages are high, a key element to this is to increase workforce
productivity. The improved quality of Djibouti's human resource base is key to improving port
revenues. Finally, one of the major and growing sources of income for Djibouti are remittances from
Djiboutians working overseas, especially in France and the neighboring Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC) countries. Djibouti needs to develop its human resource base if Djiboutians are going to
compete in overseas markets.
In an attempt to build on its relative strengths and reverse the negative economic and social trends, the
Government started implementing a stabilization and structural reform program with the support of an
International Monetary Fund (IMF) stand-by arrangement (1996-98) and with a Poverty Reduction and
Growth Facility (1999-2003). The structural reforms include: a reduction in the public sector wage-
bill; fiscal measures to improve revenues; commercialization and privatization of some of the major
infrastructure services; and removing impediments to private investment. The main risk to the
implementation of this program is the country's weak institutional capacity.



4
Based on these factors, IDA proposes to support the following areas:
*  Promoting growth and employment generation: (a) through structural reforms that would
lay the basis for sustainable growth and restoration of competitiveness over time; and (b) by
focusing on the development of the port, the country's main economic asset, and associated
infrastructure services, and taking maximum advantage of the increased transit traffic to
Ethiopia.
*  Human development and poverty reduction, focusing on: (a) quickly expanding the
extremely low enrollment rate in primary school; (b) addressing the overwhelming needs in
health (the AIDS and tuberculosis crises); and (c) preparing a possible program of
assistance for vulnerable groups to cushion the impact of adjustment.
*  Mobilizing donor support for Djibouti through demonstrated improvements in the policy
and govemance environment, and aid coordination around well-articulated sectoral
strategies.
The proposed project addresses the second CAS objective and is a major step in the effort to reach full
basic education enrollment. It is expected that the major constraint will not be the availability of
investment resources to provide additional facilities, but rather the Govemment's inability to pay
recurrent costs. As a result of past fiscal problems, there has been a large volume of domestic payment
arrears built up in the budget. A key element of IDA's strategy will be to address these arrears through
structural adjustment credits which, with the implementation of a series of major changes, can bring
the arrears under control. Meanwhile, individual projects will need to finance some recurrent costs
until the macroeconomic situation is more robust. The proposed Phase I project includes significant
financing for contract teacher salaries, and will continue to receive support under Phases II and III.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy
The main sector issues are:
*  Djibouti's education indicators are among the lowest in the world with primary gross
enrollment rates at 39% in 2000;
-  The gross enrollment rate in basic education (enseignement fondamental) is 29%  (basic
education includes primary and middle school - middle schools are also referred to as lower
secondary);
* Low participation due to lack of school places;
* Gender, regional and income inequities;
* Poor quality;
* Poor internal system efficiency (high rates of repetition and dropout);
* Poor teacher motivation due to delayed payment of salaries;
* A competitive examination is used to screen out the majority of students at the end of six years
of primary education - well short of the target of Basic Education All of which the
Govemment supported at the recent conference in Dakar; and
* The curriculum is not adapted to the Djiboutian context, and is primarily based on the French
system - Djibouti students take the French Baccalaureate Examination at the end of secondary
education.



5
The Government's strategies are:
* The Plan Directeur will increase primary school enrollments to over 90% in ten years;
* The Plan Directeur plans on absorbing all primary school graduates in middle schools,
eventually increasing the overall enrollment rate for basic education (primary + middle) to
70% in 2010;
* Increase the supply of school places with the construction and rehabilitation of additional
classrooms;
* Modify the law to increase the role of the private sector by expanding the pool of recognized
private schools through assessments, and assistance in meeting Government standards;
* Provide incentives to private providers of education ranging from teacher training to cash
support to tax-free status;
* The new law will provide the legal framework for community participation in school
maintenance through school management committees (which include parents, teachers and
administrators (at the higher levels students will also participate in these committees)).
* Better provision of education materials and developing a curriculum more suited to Djibouti's
needs; and
* Maintain double shifting to ensure the efficient use of the existing facilities.
The Government aims to control the increase in recurrent costs that would result from these reforms
by: (a) decreasing scholarship costs for higher education; and (b) increasing system efficiency by
reducing repetition and drop-out rates. Unit costs for higher education will be lowered by educating
students in Djibouti for the first two years of a four-year program through the use of distance learning.
Efficiency will be improved by eliminating the examination at the end of the primary cycle and
replacing it with an assessment of learning outcomes.
Table 1 outlines a ten-year expenditure and financing plan, including recurrent and investment cost
needs. The cost estimates include recurrent costs for all levels of education plus sector overheads such
as the Ministry and its affiliated bodies.
Table 1: Djibositi - Ten Year Expenditure Plan in mnillions of DF to Achieve Enrollment Targets
200001  2001-02 2002-03  2003-04 2004-05  2005-06  2006-07 12007-08 2008-09 2009-10
Official Target Primary Enrollment
Rate                                  39%      52%       55%      59%      65%      73%      75%1   80%         87%      97%
Education Recurrent Expenditure
Requirement                          4,744    5,146    5,622    6,055    6,265    6,865    7,571    8,013    8,952    9,956
Total Recurrent Budget              31,487   32,189   32,907   33,641   34,392   35,159   35,943   36,745   37,564   38,402
GDP                                 90,766   92,944   95,175   97,459   99,798  102,194  104,646  107,158  109,729 112,363
Budget as % GDP                    34.70%   34.60%1 34.60%   34.50%   34.50%   34.40%   34.30%   34.30%   34.20%   34.20%
Reqd. Educ. as % GDP                 5.20%    5.50%    5.90%    6.20%    6.30%    6.70%    7.20%    7.50%    8.20%    &90%
APL Target Primary GER                         40%      45%       50%      55%      60%      65%      70%       75%      80%
APL Target Primary GER for Boys    =           45%       49%      54%      58%      64%1    67%        72%      77%      82%
APL Target Primary GER for Glrls               35%       41%      46%      52%      56%      63%      68%       73%      78S%
APL Target Basic GER                           30%       34%      39%      43%      47%      54%      59%       64%      69%
APL Target Bask GER Male                        34%      38%      43%      46%      51%      56%       62%      67%      72%
APL Target Basic GER Female          _          26%      31%      35%      40%      43%      51%       56%      61%      67%
Expected Education Expenditures
as % Total                           15.0%    15.8%    16.6%    17.4%    17.8%    18.8%    20.3%    21.1%    23.0%    25.2%
Expected Education Allocation in
DF million                            4,723    5,086    5,463    5,854    6,122    6,6101   7,296    7,753    8,640    9,677
Shortfal in Recurrent Budget in
DF million                              21        60      159      201      143      255      275       260      312      279
Shortfal in Recurrent Budget in DF millions
-IDA (teacher salaries)                          35      106      106       71       1761     176      176      1761    176
-Other Donors                           21       25       53       95       72        791      9<       84      1361    103
Shortfall in Recurrent Buget in US$ millons
-IDA (teacher salaries)                0.0      0.2       0.6      0.6      0.4      1.01     1.0       1.0   1 0         1.0
- Other Donors                         0.1      0.1      0.3       0.5      0.41     0.4      0.61      0.5'     0.8      0.
Footnotes:
I. Recurrent costs include all levels of education in addition to Ministry overheads and cost of other related bodies.
2. Data in Italics are based on Government simulations as presented to donors.
3. Mission estimates are in bold and are more conservative than Government simulations.
4. Among other donors France provides a sigrnficant amount of support for Lyc&es, Teacher Training and Higher Education.



6
There is strong support in the Government for increasing resources for education, and the Government
made a commitment to increase education's share of budget from 16% in 2001-02 to 25% in 2009-10.
One of the reasons for choosing an APL with a ten-year perspective is that the education budget
shortages will continue to be a constraint in the next few years. Over this period, Government
expenditures in non-priority areas will be brought under control and Government expenditures on
education can be expected to increase significantly. Despite the manageability in the long-run, the
short-run prospects on the budget are more challenging and donors will need to finance some recurrent
costs. The proposed APL will be implemented in three phases with distinct triggers (see Section B. 4).
As a result, a 10-year projection of enrollments and education costs has been developed (which is the
overall framework for the APL), and a detailed five year plan and project proposals have been
prepared (which is the framework for the first phase of the APL).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
The project will directly address all the issues below except for higher education.
Issues/Sector Problems                          Government strategy and project proposal
School Places
The immediate problem in Djibouti City and      The Government's strategy includes a combination
surrounding suburbs and other towns is the lack of  of building more schools and continuing with the
school places due to the strong demand for schooling.  double-shifting policy. The project will finance new
classrooms, sanitation services, and school furniture.
Equity, Gender, Disparities
Children from poorer families, rural children, and  The Government will construct schools in under-
especially girls do not always attend school. The  served areas, particularly in poorer parts of Djibouti-
recent Household Expenditure Survey states that  Ville where almost 70% of the population lives.
major reasons for the girls' dropout rates are: to help    The Goverment's strategic plan proposes a series of
with domestic chores; lack of female teachers;  actions to encourage girls and children from poor
inadequate toilet facilities; inadapted curricula.  families to attend school. These include the
In addition, the cost of books and school materials is   possibility of financing books, uniforms, etc. but
prohibitive for poor parents, though education is  these are proposals and need to be further developed
formally free.                                  and operationalized. The project will finance a study
to analyze the reasons why females, children from
poorer families, and rural children do not attend
school. The MOE will develop a specific action
plan, based on the recommendations of the study,
which will focus on implementing pilot programs in
affected areas, starting with the areas with the
poorest indicators.
The project will also finance the cost of textbooks.
Quality
Low quality of education is attributed to: poor teacher  The Government's strategy is to provide timely
motivation; long delays in monthly salary payments;   payment of teacher salaries, provide more relevant
moiain logdly,nmnhyslr  amns    teacher training, and modify the curriculum to meet
large cohort of teachers with little pedagogic training; t- he presnt  and f edsf the country.
head-teacher lakn,udretlsho                 the present and future needs of the country.
head-teachers lacking fundamental school
management skills; lack of teaching materials; and ill-  The project will finance contract teacher salaries
adapted curriculum.                             given the lack of existing skilled teachers, the
number of contractual teachers needed due the
increased enrollment flow, and to alleviate some of



7
the burden so that the Goverrunent can pay the
regular teachers on a timely basis.
In addition, the project will finance teacher training
for both the public and private sector, highlighting
pedagogic in-service training, and developing
continuing education programs for the summer
months. This will entail the construction /
rehabilitation of the CFPEN to increase the number
of teachers graduating each year, and making
available modern teaching methods/materials.
Head-teachers will be provided with school
management training of 2-week duration, which also
includes a management guide. Head-teachers would
also be taught new methods on inclusion and
behavioral changes which affect education quality.
The project will support the CRIPEN so that a new
more relevant Grade 1-9 curriculum and the
educational material related to the new curriculum
can be produced.
The project will also finance the cost of textbooks
and education material (teacher guides, etc.). The
project will monitor the effects of one textbook per
child policy and how it affects quality in learning
outcomes and make these available free to students
.________________________________________________  on a loan basis.
System Efficiency
The Government strategy to reduce wastage is to: (a)
Repetition and dropout rates are significant and peak   improverning by implem e  quality
at the terminal years of each cycle due to constraints   improve leamng by impementing  ty
and lack of space at the subsequent cycles.     improvements (see above); and (b) convert the
examination at the end of the primary cycle from a
competitive examination for entry to the middle
schools to an assessment. The project will finance
additional middle school places to allow the
transition of the increased flow from the primary
cycle with particular attention being paid to the
transitional year.
Operations & Maintenance of School Facilities
Lack of resources for non-salary costs combined with   The Government is proposing that the community
poor management of the resources which are     take charge of school maintenance. Certain pilot
available.                                      activities are taking place where the reception has
been positive.
The project will finance small studies and additional
pilot programs to foster the development of school
management committees. This would entail
dissemination workshops on what community
maintenance involves, such as issues on cleanliness,
sanitation upkeep, building operations, financing
mechanisms, and roles and responsibilities. In
addition, the project is financing a head-teacher
training program which will involve better
management principles in school operations and



8
maintenance, and adaptable skills in galvanizing
local communities into participating in the school
management and maintenance.
Financing of Non-Salary Recurrent Costs
Overall fiscal constraints.                     The Government is reaching out to communities for
school maintenance and it is expected that donors
will cover some recurrent costs. As mentioned
above, the project will finance books and other
educational materials.
Limited Role of Private Sector
Role of private sector is limited due to financial and    To reach full primary enrollment requires increasing
human resource constraints.                     the share of enrollment in private schools. The
Govemment is planning a series of incentives for
private schools including simplified registration
procedures and tax exemptions. A study is underway
to examine the constraints to private provision of
education. Based on this study the Government will
issue a decree to facilitate private provision of
education. This decree will serve as a trigger from
Phase I to Phase II of this APL.
The project will finance private sector teacher
training through the programs developed within the
CFPEN (see above).
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans
The proposed APL will support the Government's ten-year program to increase enrollment at the
primary level. The support will be in the context of the medium to long-term expenditure estimates
outlined in Table 1 and will include support for investment and recurrent costs.
Phase I (US$10.0 million over three years starting in March 2001) will support the immediate
response to the unmet demand by increasing capacity in primary schools. It will also finance books
and educational materials, the purchase of which has been deferred due to the lack of recurrent budget
resources. Some attention will be given to increasing the number of places in mniddle schools because
this is an essential precondition for converting the competitive examination at the end of the primary
cycle to a non-competitive assessment. Phase I will finance teacher training, and the development of
new curricula for the reformed Grade 1-9 basic education cycle. Phase I will also address the recurrent
cost constraints by financing teacher salaries, books and educational materials.
Phase I to Phase II triggers will be:
1. Over 75% of primary schools will have provided 32 weeks (an average of 27 hours of
instruction per week) of effective schooling i.e. actual teaching, in the period between
September I and May 15 of the previous acadernic year under review.
2. At least 16% of government recurrent expenditures in the previous fiscal year are allocated
to the education sector including scholarships, housing and other allowances for teachers.
3. Issuing a decree (Decret d'application) for Law No. 96, dated July 10, 2000 on Education
Reformn, establishing private schools, simplifying procedures for recognition and providing
incentives has been issued.



9
4. The preparation of an action plan, acceptable to IDA, to increase school enrollments among
girls and children from poor families and from rural areas.
5. Issuing a decree (Decret d'application) for Law No. 96, dated July 10, 2000 on Education
Reform, setting up community participation in school management and school operations and
maintenance.
6. Replacing the competitive examination at the end of the primary cycle by a non-competitive
assessment.
7. Community participation in school management and maintenance has become operational.
Phase II (tentatively US$10.0 million over four years starting July 2005) will continue to support
classroom expansion especially at the middle school level and procurement of books and educational
materials. It will also finance the implementation of any specific steps needed to reduce gender and
income inequity in school attendance. As enrollments increase, the Government is expected to have
more and more difficulty in meeting its recurrent costs obligation and almost 40% of the second phase
credit will be set aside for financing recurrent costs including the possibility of incentives to attract
girls and children from poorer families to school.
Phase II to Phase III triagers will be:
1. The new expanded structure of nine year compulsory basic education has become
operational.
2. At least 20% of government recurrent expenditures in the previous fiscal year were
allocated the education sector including scholarships, housing and other allowances for
teachers.
3. Reaching a primary school enrollment rate of about 50-56% of 6-10 year old girls, and
about 60-64% for 6-10 years old boys.
4. Private sector share of school enrollments has increased to about 5-8% in primary schools
and about 9-12% in middle schools.
5. Implementation of the action plan aiming at increasing school enrollment among girls and
children from poor families and from rural areas.
Phase III (tentatively US$10.0 mnillion, over five years starting July 2008) support will shift away
from recurrent costs. It is expected that by this time the Govemment would have addressed its most
pressing budget constraints and have implemented difficult public expenditure choices freeing up more
resources for priority sectors such as education. Phase III will finance more of the middle schools as
well as focus more on the teacher training for middle schools. Given the high population growth rate,
additional primary schools will also be financed.



10
C. PROGRAM AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION SUMMARY
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The first phase project supports the first five years of a ten-year program, designed to improve quality
and double enrollment rates in primary education. It will therefore address some inmmediate constraints
and also set a trend for the subsequent stages. The first phase project supports three components: (a)
Improve Access; (b) Improve quality; and (c) Support Government Capacity to Manage the
Sector Reforms.
(a) Improve Access (US$5.8 million): This component will finance 190 new classrooms of which
most will be in existing schools and rehabilitating 36 out-of-use classrooms, including furniture.
These 226 classrooms of which 210 will be in primary schools and the rest in middle schools will
increase the enrollment capacity by almost 20,000. The component will also rehabilitate existing
sanitation services, or promote more efficient and effective sanitation services in a drought-prone
country by studying, and if agreeable, implementing VIP toilets.
(b) Improve Quality (US$1.1 million): This component addresses seven basic elements of quality: (i)
teacher training, especially of contractual teachers; (ii) teacher motivation through gradually improving
the timeliness of salary payment; (iii) recruitment and training of additional contractual teachers; (iv)
training of head teachers in administration, pedagogic supervision, and improving community
relationships; (v) improving the curriculum and increasing availability of relevant books and education
materials, (vi) increased role of parents and the local community in the running of schools; and (vii)
increasing effective instructional time.
(c) Support Govermnent Capacity to Manage the Sector Reform (US$4.1 nillion): This
component will: (i) support the activities of CNOSEGE in its effort to coordinate the reforms and raise
resources to support the reform; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry of Education (Planning
Unit, and the Education Projects Unit) through provision of staff training, consultants and equipment;
and (iii) support strategic studies as necessary.
Indicative    % of      Bank-       % of
Component               Sector     Costs      Total    financing    Bank-
(US$M)                (US$M)   financing
Increase School Capacity                      5.80       52.7        5.20      52.0
Create the Conditions for Quality             1.10       10.0        1.10      11.0
Improvement
Support Government Capacity to                4.10       37.3        3.70      37.0
Manage Sector Reforms
11.00     100.0       10.00     100.0
Total Project Costs
Total Financing Required           11.00      100.0       10.00     100.0



11
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project
The project aims to implement key policy reforms as stated in the August 2000 Education Law,
specially:
*  the introduction of the compulsory nine-year basic education cycle;
*  the increase in instructional time;
*  simplified procedures for opening private schools and support for private education;
*  community participation in school management.
3. Benefits and target population
The primary beneficiaries will be children who do not have ready access to schooling because of lack
of classrooms. In addition, benefits will also accrue to those students who are in school but have
learning difficulties as they do not have regular access to books and teaching materials. Djiboutian
society as a whole should benefit in the long-run through the development of a better educated
workforce and the implementation of a curriculum more relevant to Djibouti's development needs.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements
The first phase of the program will be implemented from March 2001 to June 2005.
Organization of the MOE
Under the guidance of the Minister, the Ministry of Education (MOE) is headed by the Directorate
General of Education (DGEN-Direction Generale de l'Education Nationale) who is responsible,
among other things, for coordinating all activities including those financed by donor funding. The
DGEN in tum is supported by the Planning Unit which is responsible for preparing statistical reports
on the education sector, conducting surveys, school mapping exercises. The Project Unit (BEPE-
Bureau d'Ex6cution des Projets Education), working under the DGEN, is responsible for the
procurement activities and financial management of donor-funded projects. The BEPE works in
coordination with the Department of Housing, and Urban Development (DHU-Departement de
l'Habitat, de l'Urbanisme, et de lAmenagement du Territoire), urdra the Ministry of Housing, Urban
Development, Environmert, and Regional Development (MHUAT) for school construction activities.
The selection of sites, and the preparation of architectural plans and bidding documents are carried out
by BEPE and cleared with DHU. The DHU approves and is responsible for supervising works with
BEPE collaboration.
Project Management, Coordination, and Monitoring
The project is an integral part of the Govemment's action plan which came out of the Etats-Generaux
and which will be monitored by the CNOSEGE and its secretariat (Executive Committee) working
under the Minister.
The Executive Committee is comprised of the Chief of the Planning Unit, the BEPE, the directors of
primary and secondary education, the CRIPEN, the center for teacher training - CFPEN (Centre de
formation des Personnels de l1enseignement national), representatives from the Ministry of Finance,
and the Vocational Training Ministry. The Committee will meet on a quarterly basis for the first year
of the project, and subsequently meeting every six months. In addition, the Committee will meet every
six months when the project activities are being planned and the budget is being developed.
The Secretariat of CNOSEGE will be responsible for resource mobilization, strategic planning, donor
coordination, etc. and the Technical Committee, who translates the reform activities into



12
implementable actions, will coordinate closely with the DGEN who is responsible for the execution of
all activities in the Ministry and will manage the execution of the project with help from the BEPE.
The DGEN will develop the annual operations plan, with input from the other units of the Ministry,
and will monitor project progress (see below). The BEPE will be responsible for: (a) all procurement
activities; (b) project financial management; (c) producing project management reports; and (d)
producing quarterly progress reports. The BEPE currently has a total of 12 staff including a Project
Coordinator, an Accountant, an Architect, and an Engineer, a Procurement Officer and other support
staff.
Current Implementation Status
The list of schools for the first year was reviewed during appraisal, and bidding documents for the first
batch of schools were reviewed during negotiations. Criteria for school selection are outlined in the
Project Implementation Plan, and the Govermment provided assurances during negotiatons that there
will be no involuntary resettlement, and that site selection will not be in violation of World Bank
Group policies. In addition, BEPE will coordinate and execute the procurement for the primary school
textbooks for the first year of the project, which will be purchased through sole-source contracting
with the publisher who had previously supplied Djibouti's schools and holds the copyright. Middle
school textbooks, where there exists a choice of suppliers, will be purchased through Limited
International Bidding by contacting all potential suppliers. Pedagogic charts and teacher guides will
be designed by CRIPEN. Training for contractual teachers will be organized by the CFPEN working
closely with the unit responsible for primary schools. The latter unit will also be responsible for
training of head-teachers for which the first year program has been launched with assistance from
UNICEF under French financing.
Project's Financial Management Arrangements
An assessment of the financial management capacity of the executing agency, BEPE, took place
during appraisal. Given that this is the first education project to be financed by IDA in Djibouti after a
hiatus of five years, disbursements will be based on traditional methods of Statement of Expenditures,
Special Account replenishment, and direct payment. Project management reports (PMRs) will only be
used as a reporting mechanism and not for disbursement purposes.
The assessment of financial management systems was carried out for BEPE, in addition to the
consulting firm ADETIP, as they are presently managing an IDA project and have established a
financial and management system. The BEPE meet IDA's OP/BP 10.02 requirements. The BEPE's
current financial management structure is considered to be adequate in general, with a relatively
satisfactory internal control system in place, and the agency is staffed with capable personnel. In
addition, the BEPE has acceptable auditing arrangements. For increased efficiency, some
improvements to the BEPE financial management system are proposed and have been agreed upon
with the IDA team. The BEPE's current project management capacity will be strengthened by the
acquisition and implementation of an adequate software. In addition, the design and preparation of
financial and administrative procedures including the various working and reporting relationships
within the BEPE will be developed and implemented. The main recommendations contained in the
action plan are: the implementation of a management information system compatible with that of the
ADETIP, and the design and preparation of a procedure manual for the BEPE.
The BEPE will prepare and communicate to IDA quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs).
These will be used for reporting purposes only. They will include: progress against project
implementation indicators; a summary of sources and uses of funds; a summary of procurement status;
and a proposed work program for the next six months including the necessary budget allocations.



13
Monitoring and Evaluation
Monitoring will be done according to the development indicators given in the attachment to Annex 1.
The project will strengthen the capacity of CNOSEGE, and the Planning Unit of the Ministry so that
monitoring reports on the implementation of the reform can include key progress and impact
indicators. Currently the Planning unit generates statistical data on all aspects of the education sector,
however this can be further strengthened to monitor progress on key reform objectives such as access,
equity and quality. In addition, during the donors round-table UNESCO offered support to develop an
Education Management Information System (EMIS). If this is not in place by the end of Phase I of the
APL, this would be a priority item for Phase II.
Evaluation of the impact of the reforms will be done by CNOSEGE by recruiting experts in this field
and an initial evaluation will be done at the end of Phase I. Particular areas of impact assessment will
be student performance and success in reaching out to disadvantaged groups. Normally, student
performance would be measured by overall test results but as the pool of students widens to include
students from less advantaged socioeconomic groups, there will be a downward pressure on test
scores. The Planning Unit of the Ministry will be strengthened to monitor progress in reaching out to
disadvantaged groups and test scores of students by socioeconomic background. Staff will carry out a
random survey (5 to 10% sample) of students by socioeconomic background in 2001 to establish a
baseline. To keep the survey simple, the socioeconomic background questions will be limited to easily
identified categories such as day-laborers, civil servants, shopkeepers etc. The survey will be repeated
in 2005 and 2110.
D. PROJECT RATIONALE
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection
Originally, the project was designed as a Sector Investment Loan, however, given the Government's
commitment to the education sector, and the long-term assistance required, the APL was selected as
the preferred lending instrument. The proposed APL is designed to support the Government's
ambitious reform program which is expected to: (a) universalize basic education; (b) develop a more
relevant curriculum for Djibouti's development needs while maintaining the advantages of an
internationally accepted curriculum that they currently follow; (c) reduce gender and income inequities
in enrollment; (d) increase system efficiency; (e) increase the role of the private sector in provision of
education; (f) increase the role of communities in school management and maintenance; and (g)
improve the quality of teachers. These are long-term objectives and need sustained financing over a
longer period. In addition, some issues, for example reducing gender and income inequity in
enrollment, will need an evolutionary approach as the results of studies, etc., under Phase I become
available and can be used to develop specific actions in follow-up phases of the APL. The Government
had also requested funding for a "salary buffer fund" which was not included in the project because of
various legal and financial management implications.



14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned)
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                        Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed  roiects only)
Bank-financed                                       Implementation      Development
Progress (IP)    Objective (DO)
Enhance the living standards in Djibouti, through   Social                   S                 S
increased access to basic economic and social      Development &
infrastructure, and services, in addition to employment  Public Works
generation opportunities. Construction/ rehabilitation of    Project
commercial infrastructure, such as markets and public
places, will be included, in addition to social
infrastructure, i.e., standpipes, health posts, schools, etc.
Improve the coordination of vocational training in  Manpower and             S                 S
relation to labor market patterns; increase access to  Education
primary education; upgrade the relevance and quality of    Development
education at the primary and lower secondary levels; and   Project (closed
improve the management capacity of the Ministry of  in 1996)
National Education while reducing costs and better
allocating resources
Other development agencies
African Development Bank                           Support for
Classrooms and
adult literacy
Govemment of Japan                                  Build 80
classrooms
Proposed Project from Arab Fund for Economic and    Build 500
Social Development to appraised in 2001             classrooms
Proposed Project from Islamic Development Bank     Build 50
classrooms
France                                             Technical
Assistance,
support to
higher
education,
teacher training
and Lycees -
some budget
support for
educational
materials
European Union                                     Budget support
targeted to
education
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design
The Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) of the two IDA supported Education Projects were
positive in terms of competitiveness in the construction sector, simplifications in the architectural and
technical designs of schools, promotion of community maintenance, and good performance of the
BEPE after training and capacity building. The ICRs reported that insufficient attention was paid to



15
institutional aspects of the project, mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation, the Borrower's
execution due to lack of experience, and compounded by centralized administrative procedures. In
addition, IDA supervision was of short duration and inadequate, and did not fully focus on the
qualitative aspects of the project.
The project will maintain or further improve the positive aspects described above, by revising
architectural designs for their suitability to country conditions (a design which provides sufficient
lighting, air flow, use of local materials where available...), strengthening of the BEPE's management
tools, and sequencing core training with project execution. With regards to the purchase of textbooks,
experience will be sought from other francophone countries towards opening up the market and
supplying schools with good quality textbooks.
In addition, seven studies were planned and/or carried out under the financing of a Norwegian grant
towards the preparation of the present project, and were only recently completed, and are being
reviewed by the Government. These were:
1. The Institutional Audit of the MOE (completed);
2. Feasibility of local development and production of textbooks (completed);
3. Cost and Financing of Education (completed);
4. Factors affecting teacher motivation (completed);
5. Employment of technical school graduates (completed);
6. Factors affecting primary school achievement (completed);
7. Role of the private sector (recently underway);
8. Role of Community Participation (was not undertaken).
Study #1 (Audit of the MOE) made several recommendations regarding the reorganization of the MOE
and delegating some of the decision-making processes to the districts. Study #2 (Textbooks)
underlined the lack of textbooks and their inadequacy to the local environment, and made remedial
recommendations as far as privatizing the production of textbooks. Study #3 (Financing)
reconmmended budget decentralization among other things. Study #4 (Teacher motivation) outlined the
serious impact on motivation by lack of or delays in teacher payments and inputs which would
motivate teacher performance through access to guides and textbooks, school equipment, less
classroom crowding, and training. Study #5 (Technical school graduates) dealt with the fact that one
out of 5 graduates finds gainful employment. Study #6 (Primary school achievement) highlighted the
lack of availability of textbooks for home use, the economic status of each family, the penalties
imposed upon repeaters, and speaking the language of instruction within the home. Study #7 (Role of
private sector) was signed in October 2000 and is presently being undertaken. Study #8 (Community
participation) was not undertaken due to the selection process of the consultants concerned, and is still
pending.
Once the Government has been able to review the studies, the sunmmary of the recommendations
retained will be included in the project's Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership
The Government of Djibouti has developed a national strategy to respond to popular demand for
quality education. This strategy is the basis on which this project has been developed. The process of
consultation took place before and during the National Education Forum Etats-Generaux. The Forum
has been followed by a series of studies leading to a Donors Roundtable on Education held in Djibouti
October 9-11, 2000. A new Education Law based on the conclusions of the National Education Forum
has been approved. Many donors are involved in the planning and follow-up activities to the National
Education Forum and the Donors Roundtable, and the Ministries of Education and Finance have
repeatedly and urgently requested IDA support for an education project. The President of the Republic



16
addressed the Donors Roundtable and committed to increase Government resources to education to
over 25% of the budget and noted that the government viewed education as the main source of future
growth in Djibouti.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project
IDA has been supporting the national consensus building process through the National Education
Forum. The proposed project will help demonstrate that a consensus building approach that involves
all elements of civil society is effective and produces results.  In addition the use of an APL
demonstrates the long-term commitment by IDA to assist the Government in its strategic goal of
reaching full enrollment in basic education. It is also hoped that the use of the IDA credit will further
decrease the construction unit cost (as IDA is supporting the use of local construction materials which
should be cheaper), help develop more cost-effective classroom designs, and provide the environment
with a more efficient procurement process.
E. SUMMARY PROJECT ANALYSIS (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4)
Other (specify) NPV=US$ million; ERR = ** % (see Annex 4)
** ERR = Over 11% based on system efficiency gains alone without allowing for development
benefits, public goods nature of education and poverty reduction benefits.
Djibouti's main resource base is its population and in order to achieve sustained development, the
country needs to improve the quality of its human resource base. Quality starts with improved basic
education and school enrollments. In addition, the issue of equity arises. According to the household
expenditure survey data, in urban areas, the net enrollment rate (NER) at the primary level in the
survey year (1996) was 50% greater for the highest expenditure quintile compared to the lowest
expenditure quintile. The inequity is even more pronounced in secondary education (lower secondary
education is part of basic education but the survey data does not separate the two), where the NER of
the highest quintile was more than 420% higher than the NER of the lowest quintile. The income
differences in enrollment are significantly higher than other countries in Africa. The problem in urban
areas is access - demand exists among all groups but the rationing of school intake ends up benefiting
the better off. Any further expansion of places will help the poorer segments of the population. Thus,
public expenditure in basic education is justified both on the public good rationale and also on the
equity rationale.
The ten-year program proposed by the Government will also result in efficiency gains through lowered
repetition and drop out rates. This will result in reducing the average number of years to graduate
from the primary and middle school levels, resulting in large potential savings in recurrent and
investment expenditures in the long-run. The net present value of these public expenditure savings was
found to be significantly higher than the net present value of the investment costs required by the
program. This is based on the difference between what the Government would have had to spend in
the absence of system reforms to educate the same number of students to the basic education level and
what the Government would spend with systemic reforms. These savings yield an internal rate of over
11% which clearly justifies the investment. This rate of return is actually an understatement for the
program because the benefits do not include benefits from economic development, externalities and
reduction in enrollment differentials between the poor and the better-off.



17
The public finance impact is discussed in section 2 below.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5)
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
Fiscal Impact:
Djibouti is not in a position to increase its overall Govermnent spending as taxes are high and
expenditures amount to 35% of GDP. It is however in a position to reallocate from non-priority
sectors to priority sectors. With the end of the civil war in 1999, Djibouti is in a position to reduce
military related expenditures but it cannot be done rapidly. In the short-to medium-term, donor
finance is needed for recurrent costs as a bridge. Djibouti is working closely with the IMF and is
considering an IDA supported structural adjustment program to improve its fiscal management. This
should help ease the situation in the long-run. In addition, the proposed program includes significant
improvements in efficiency which helps reduce the public finance burden, and recurrent costs will not
rise in proportion to enrollment increases but instead take a much slower growth path. Thus, even
though enrollment at all levels will triple as a result of the reforms, the expected efficiency gains will
slow the increase in recurrent costs. These are expected to increase much more slowly to DF 9.6
billion in 2010 up from about DF 4.7 billion currently. This implies an increase in recurrent costs in
education from 15% of Government recurrent spending to 26% of Government recurrent spending
assuming that Government expenditures grow at 2.2% per year. This level of spending is comparable
to other countries and should be sustainable in the long-run particularly if the Government carries
through with the structural reforms necessary to move its expenditures away from non-priority sectors
to priority sectors such as education. As noted above, donors will need to finance some recurrent costs
in the short-to medium-term.
3. Technical
hicrease system efficiency through lower repetition and dropout rates particularly at the end of the
primary and middle school cycles.
4. Institutional
The Ministry of Education is the Executing Agency. In order to coordinate the activities following the
Round Table on Education, the CNOSEGE will be responsible for the overall monitoring of the
reform. The CNOSEGE will be supported by a Secretariat which will coordinate donor activities, and
a Technical Committee who will translate the goals into specific activities. These activities will fall
under the responsibility of the Directorate General of Education (DGEN-Direction Generale de
1'Education Nationale) working through both the Planning Unit which will monitor project indicators
and outcomes, and the BEPE who will be responsible for implementation. The BEPE will be
responsible for the procurement of works, goods, and services, and will provide the DGEN with the
monitoring and progress reports, through the Planning Unit. The BEPE will also be responsible for
producing Project Management Reports required under LACI.



18
Implementation organization chart
.......... ............ ...... ....... ... ... .........I................ .. ....... .......... .. ....... .... ............ ................................. .. .... ..................
MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
(CNOSEGE               
Monitoring of the Reforn  Program
i Technica                   Technical         .
Secretaiat                Committee I/                       ..   ... ..... ...... .......  .
i*Ministry of Habiitat                           I           \
i       and Urbanism
i ~J E        jCollaboration           - -
.    _.  _._. . _. _. .  . _. . _.  _. .. .. .. .  ................. ... .............. ........................... ............. ....................... ..............................................
1/ Includes representativesfrom the DGEN, BEPE, Planning Unit, CRIPEN, etc.
Internal Government procedures stipulate the conditions and relationship between the BEPE and the
Department of Habitat and Urbanism (DHU) which is responsible for all public sector construction.
The collaboration framework is working satisfactorily, however, as the DHU's capacity is weak due to
financing restrictions, the BEPE has proceeded with preparing architectural plans and bidding
documents, and clears the documentation with DHU. The BEPE launches the bids and the bid
opening, evaluation and selection are supervised by the Commission Nationale des Marches. Once the
contract is signed, both the DHU and the BEPE collaborate on site supervision and final handover.
The BEPE has developed over time into a small but functioning unit. The construction program is
large for the first phase, and therefore the BEPE's management capacity will be strengthened in
parallel through system's upgrading and in-house training.
An institutional assessment has been carried out of the MOE to review what areas need strengthening,
and what inputs will promote efficiency and capacity to implement the project. A procurement and
financial assessment was undertaken during appraisal and the findings are attached in Annex 6.
4.1 Executing agencies
Ministry of Education.
4.2 Project management
The project will be managed by the Directorate General for National Education in the MOE, with the
Executing Unit (BEPE) providing assistance in the implementation of project activities.



19
4.3 Procurement issues
The slow and cumbersome Governmental procurement procedures have caused delays in past projects.
At this time, the BEPE ensures that the documents follow specifications, and that the designs used
have been vetted and approved. The main bottleneck is at contract signing. The procurement
assessment has made recommendations to alleviate this bottleneck.
Procurement of primary textbooks will be through direct contracting with the current supplier. This is
necessary because textbooks are unique and publisher-specific, and there is no value added in
purchasing the textbooks internationally in the short-term as the existing publishers hold all
copyrights. Procurement of middle-school textbooks will be done through Limited International
Bidding by contacting all potential publishers. However, a textbook strategy will be developed to
open the market to all francophone publishers.
4.4 Financial management issues
The financial management under the project is considered acceptable and an action plan has been
agreed upon between IDA and the project management to improve project efficiency. Given that there
have been a number of IDA projects implemented under the same structure, the project financial
management risk is considered to be modest. To reduce the risk further, an action plan has been
devised to improve the project's efficiency and internal control systems. The action plan includes
financial and procurement management actions agreed with the Borrower.  It will be fully
implemented by December 31, 2001.
5. Environmental                      Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertakenfor environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this
analysis.
Of the three main project components (Improving Access, Creating the conditions necessary for
quality improvement, and Supporting the Government capacity to manage the sector), only the first
component should entail the following significant environmental impact. The main issues are lack of
sanitation blocks, use of inappropriate material in the construction/rehabilitation process, and lack of
water.
Several pilot activities have taken place to involve parent associations, and/or community participation
in the maintenance of buildings, but these have not been very successful as communities are also going
through economic hardships. The project will look into an O&M strategy and the cost implications of
such a strategy. In addition, the MOE will need to develop a sanitation strategy, what types of systems
to use in a drought-prone country, and how to implement and maintain the system. The project will
benefit from world-wide experience in this regard, and will work with the Department of the
Environment to develop a cost-effective system.
5.2 What are the mainfeatures of the EMP and are they adequate?
An Environmental Management Plan (EMP) was prepared, which includes as mitigation measures, the
proper use of materials (no asbestos) in the works specifications, the construction of additional
sanitation facilities, rehabilitation of existing facilities, preparation of an environmental training
program for school principals, and an awareness-raising campaign aimed at teachers, students, and
parents, and the design and introduction of an upkeep and maintenance system.  Rehabilitation is



20
planned under the project at specific sites. Terms of Reference will need to be developed for
environmental training and awareness-raising campaigns during the first year of the project.
The MOE will monitor the activities under the EMP, and will work in collaboration with the parties
concerned to educate and disseminate information on environmental best practices, towards proper use
of sanitation services, and maintenance procedures for the schools.
The EMP was reviewed and approved by the Government which authorized its release. On a more
general issue, the Government officially released its National Environmental Action Plan during April
2000.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA
Date of receipt of final draft: July 23, 2000 (EMP)
Disclosure requirements have been followed.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft
EA report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment managemlent plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
During the June mission, the Djibouti authorities were made aware of the importance of public
consultation, and appropriate' measures are being taken to involve the directors/teachers, and
communities in the management of schools through pilot studies. Consultation of some of the
stakeholders was done during the visits to a sample of schools identified for extension.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Within the EMP, a monitoring plan has been developed in order to ensure that the recommendations
for mitigation measures are followed and effectively carried out especially during the construction
phase. The sustainability of the sanitation measures will be carefully assessed from the point of view
of good practices, cost effectiveness, affordability and the Djibouti water shortage environment.
6. Social
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Djibouti is a small country and many key social issues were identified in the 1997 Poverty
Assessment. The issues raised included the percentage of the population classified as poor in 1996
(50-80% reaching the upper-bound when refugees, nomads and homeless are taken into account); large
numbers of refugees, nomads, and homeless populations; the majority of the poor live in urban areas
(85%) even if the incidence of extreme poverty is overwhelmingly rural. Urban households can take
advantage of safety nets derived from the commodity market and services, and job opportunities are
not available in rural areas. The key problems faced by children include: (a) the high number of street
children who have fled war ravaged Somalia and Ethiopia; (b) late entrance into school by poorer
children (one out of four starts school at age 9 and leaves school at age 14); (c) health issues (diarrhea
and malnutrition) are a leading cause of death for children under age 5. Other problems affecting the
whole population include respiratory infections on the increase (due to malnutrition); endemic health
problems (AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, cholera); the widespread practice of Female Genital Mutilation
(FGM); sanitation costs are high for poorer households not connected on the main water network as



21
they have to purchase water from trucks which costs four times as high than a household connection;
and qat consumption poses a major social, income and productivity issue.
In order to capture as much of the school-age population presently out of school due to the lack of
existing places, the project will construct additional/rehabilitate classrooms. In addition, sanitation
services will be rehabilitated, and a study will be undertaken on which sanitation services best serve
the area, especially in a drought-prone area, and the most cost-effective methods of implementation
and maintenance. The project will finance a study to analyze the factors that hinder girls' attendance
and achievement, and of the feasibility of measures to overcome them, including the issues
surrounding access to education by the poor. The problems are cross-sectoral which the project, in
Phase I, will not address (unemployed youth, health issues, non-Djiboutian school-age population,
etc.). See Section C above for program details.
The IDA's regional team will discuss with Government on updating the initial 1997 poverty
assessment in order to produce a better picture of the issues as they exist now. In addition, it is
envisaged that IDA will discuss the rising health issues with the Government and the best ways for
addressing these problems.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
Key stakeholders participated in the National Educational Forum (Etats-Generaux de l'Education)
which was held in December 1999. This included officials, teachers, parents, students, members of
parliament and the general public. The project is based on the outcome of the conference. The new
education law (approved in August 2000) sets in place the conditions for broadening participation in
Djibouti's education system. It provides for setting up school management committees with parent
and community involvement. The law also provides for the creation of conditions to increase private
sector participation in education.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
The National Educational Forum consulted all stakeholders including NGOs and civil society during
the initial preparation. In addition, the project foresees the increased involvement of parent
associations or community-based associations in the management of project activities on the ground
(i.e., operations & maintenance).
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The DGEN will be responsible for monitoring the gender gap in enrollment issues, and the gap
between the poorest and the richest quintiles, and related education services available to them. The
data collection on enrollment will be strengthened by the capacity building support provided to the
Ministry of Education's planning unit - thus over time these issues can be effectively monitored.
Triggers are included in the APL phasing to ensure that various social development goals are met e.g.
decreasing the enrollment gap between the rich and the poor, decreasing the gender gap and increasing
community participation in school management.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
The MOE planning unit will monitor enrollment paying attention to gender gaps, socioeconomic gaps
and performance of students by socioeconomic class through use of surveys of students.



22
7. Safeguard Policies
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                             Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)              Yes
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                      No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                         No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                      No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                                No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)      No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)            No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
The Ministry of Education has agreed on the EMP which was established for the project, and has
requested assistance in developing efficient and cost-effective sanitation services.  In addition,
construction and rehabilitation of school sites would be undertaken, as much as possible, during non-
school hours (afternoon, or non-school days). The project will also finance workshops and seminars
on sound environmental practices (issues dealing with waste containment, sanitation and building
maintenance). Parental/school associations will be key in monitoring the actions prescribed under the
EMP.
F. SUSTAINABILITY AND RISKS
1. Sustainability
Overall, Djibouti faces a problem paying teacher and other public servant salaries. However, from an
economic point of view, the project is a high priority for the development needs of Djibouti -
development cannot be sustained in a country with a 39% gross enrollment rate in primary education.
Djibouti's only resource is its people and the quality of human capital needs to be improved. An
increasing source of earnings for Djibouti is remittances sent by Djiboutians working abroad, and in
order to continue to benefit from this, Djibouti needs to improve the skill base of its population.
Inequities are high both by income group and by gender. The project will try to address equity
problems by financing schools in poorer areas of Djibouti-Ville and in rural areas as well as running
sensibilization programs. There is still a risk that the poorest will stay out school. The Government has
developed a ten-year strategy to reach full primary enrollment. There is significant donor interest in
financing the investment costs and some donors are also interested in fmancing recurrent costs to give
the Govemment time to reorient its own expenditures to priority areas such as education.
The overall public finance issues are currently being addressed through an IMF facility and IDA plans
to undertake a structural adjustment program. A key element of the policy matrix under discussion for
an IDA structural adjustment is a sufficient increase in allocation to the social sectors, particularly the
education sector. The strong level of support for education at the highest levels of Government is
likely to assure that adequate budget resources are found for the education sector.



23
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of
Annex 1):
Risk                       Risk Rating                Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Current Government fiscal situation does not       S        A structural adjustment program is being prepared to
improve.                                                    address macro-economic and public finance issues.
School capacity and enrollment figures, especially  M       Special campaigns will be undertaken to attract girls.
of girls, does not improve.
Government's desire to shift from double shifting  N        Assurances have been obtained that double shifting will
to single shifting in schools.                              be maintained in order to meet enrollment targets.
Government budget constraints result in non-       S        The problem is addressed in the short-term as the project
utilization of new classrooms.                              will finance additional teachers on a declining basis. A
longer run public finance solution is being worked out
through adjustment arrangements with the IMF and IDA.
Enrollment targets are not achieved due to slow    M        The Reform Law has been passed and decrees to
implementation of reforms or due to slow                    implement the law are included as APL triggers.
expansion of school capacity.
Low demand for schooling among girls or children   S        Special incentives are planned during the program to
from poor families.                                         attract girls and children from poor families to school.
From Components to Outputs
Availability of school places will not increase    M        Selection of sites in urban areas is based on unmet
enrollment.                                                 demand for schooling. In rural areas awareness
campaigns will be undertaken.
Availability of textbooks will not help to improve  N       Textbooks are of good quality and distribution is not a
education quality.                                          problem. New curriculum is being planned and will be
accompanied by teacher training.
School-based management training may not           M        Training will be carefully designed and implemented with
change behavior.                                            input from trainees on expected outcomes, and close
supervision by inspectors and advisory-teachers.
Donor funding may not materialize, or materialize  M        The CNOSEGE will be strengthened to conduct donor
as planned.                                                 visits and gamer support through marketing of the reform.
Despite the new curriculum, teachers continue as   M        Awareness campaign for teachers to focus on the whole
in the old system to emphasize subjects which are           curriculum and also the tests will move from being
tested.                                                     competitive examinations to assessments.
Overall Risk Rating                                S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk). N(Negligible or Low Risk)
In light of the overall macro-economic conditions of the country, the risk rating is categorized as an "S".
3. Possible Controversial Aspects
This project has no controversial aspects.
G. MAIN CREDIT CONDITIONS
1. Effectiveness Condition
Government has deposited the project counterpart funds for the first semester in the Central Bank.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]



24
During negotiations the following assurances were received:
1. Agreement on triggers for subsequent phases
2. Agreement on monitoring and impact assessment studies
3. Agreement on project monitoring indicators
4. Agreement on finalized bidding documents for the first batch of schools
Actions to be included in Development Credit Agreement:
Financial
1. Audits and Project Management Reports.
2. Dated covenant on the selection of the auditor before March 31, 2001.
Management
1. Daied covenant on a baseline survey to establish gender and social class distribution of students
before December 31, 2001.
2. Provide regular reports on monitoring indicators and prepare a draft midterm report for review
with IDA before September 15, 2002.
In addition the following Management conditions are included in supplemental letters attached
to the Developinent Credit Agreement:
1. Triggers from Phase I to Phase II in APL
2. Triggers from Phase II to Phase III in APL
H. READINESS FOR IMPLEMENTATION
L. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
D    b) Not applicable.
3 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
K/ 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
D 4. "he following 7tems are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):



25
I. COMPLIANCE WITH BANK POLICIES
1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
D    2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
-.4,,-. X -<G \ d _ Zs* _
Qaiser M. Khan               Jacques F. Baudouy                       K. Sud
Team Leader                    Sector Director               Country Director



Annex 1
Page 1 of 3
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Project Design Summary
Hierarchy of Objectives       Key Performance           Monitoring &          Critical Assumptions
Indicators              Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:    Sector Indicators:         Sector/ country       (from Goal to Bank
reports:              Mission)
Reduce poverty through     Increased basic education   Ministry of Education   It is assumed that
increasing education       enrollment.                 Reports.              Government's current fiscal
opportunities.                                                               situation will be resolved
regarding timely payment of
civil service salaries,
including teacher salaries.
It will also support long-term   Improved education quality.
economic growth through
human capital development.
Program Purpose:           End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:       (from Purpose to Goal)
The objective of the program   Primary GER overall     The Ministry of       There are no major external
is to get close to full    increases to 80% of 6-10 year Education has a     constraints which affect the
enrollment in primary      olds.                       detailed MIS system   Government's ability to
education by 2010.         Primary GER for girls       which can produce     deliver its program.
increases to 78% of 6 to 10    regular reports. Also,
year olds                  annual yearbooks are
produced.
Increase share of private  Private sector share of     Year books and reports. Private entrepreneurs and
sector in primary and middle   primary enrollment increases                  non-profits are interested in
schools.                   to 8%.                                            operating primary and middle
Private sector share in middle                    schools.
schools increases to 12%.
Higher promotion rates at the  Promotion rates at the end of  Year books and reports. Assumes enough space at the
end of the primary school  the primary cycle should rise                     middle schools to
cycle.                     from 36% in 1999 to 83% in                        accommodate the primary
2010.                                            cycle graduates.
Increase participation of girls  Enrollment rate for girls  Random surveys of  Economic situation worsens
and children from poorer   increases faster than boys.    school students    making it more difficult to
groups                     More children from poorer   including a baseline in  provide incentives to the poor
groups in school.          2001 and follow up    to attend.
surveys in 2005 and
2010.



Annex 1
Page 2 of 3
Project Development        Outcome / Impact           Project reports:      (from Objective to Purpose'
Objective:                 Indicators:
Expand access to basic     Increased number of school   Project Reports.    It is assumed that
education.                 places.                                          Government's current fiscal
situation will be resolved
(salary payment to civil
servants and teachers).
Enrollment increases in    MOE reports.          Expansion of facilities and
primary schools from 35,000                      quality will contribute to
to 80,000                                       increased enrollment
including among girls.
Increased availability of                        It is assumed that the
textbooks.                                       Government maintains
double-shifting.
Trained primary school head                      Headteachers have autonomy
teachers.                                        and authority in managing the
schools.
Better trained contractual                       Contractual teachers are
teachers                                        recruited early enough before
the school year to allow time
for training.
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:      (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Increased number of school   226 classrooms will be built   Monthly disbursement  Availability of school places
places.                    increasing capacity by over   summary.           will increase enrollment.
20,000 based on double
shifting.
Provide textbooks.         Numbers of textbooks per    Semi-annual          Provision of textbooks will
pupil increases.           supervision reports.    improve learning.
Trained primary school head-  Primary school head-teachers  Annual audit reports;   Better trained head-teachers
teachers.                  trained and Guidebook for    site visits.        will improve school
school management prepared                       efficiency.
and distributed.



Annex 1
Page 3 of 3
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives           Indicators             Monitoring &          Critical Assumptions
Evaluation
Project Components / Sub-   Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:      (from Components to
components:                 component)                                        Outputs)
Improve Access: provision of  US$5.8 million           MOE monitoring         Capacity within the
classrooms.                 Number of schools          reports                construction sector to handle
constructed per year;                             the volume of school
improved design and                               construction.
efficiency.
Create Conditions for Quality  US$1.1 million           School surveys; student Good textbook distribution;
Improvement: access to      Number of textbooks per    learning achievement   management training
educational materials;      student; autonomous school   reports (MOE         effectiveness; Government
improved school             management; salaries paid on  monitoring reports).    commitment to paying
management; teacher         a timely basis                                    teacher salaries.
motivation.
Improve Government's        US$4.1 million             Project monitoring     Purpose and integrity
Capacity to Manage Sector:   Project effectively       reports; study reports.   maintained within project
capacity building within the   implemented and                                management; stakeholder
MOE and its related services;  management improved;                           participation in pilot studies.
pilot studies.              reports with implementable
results.
Annexe 1 Attachment: Program and Project Monitorin Tar ets
Year              2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05 2005-06 2006-07 2007-08 2008-09 2009-10
Primary Enrollment Boys          19,125  21,506  24,300  26,627  29,867  31,696  34,457  37,217  40,129
Primary Enrollment Girls         14,875  17,994  20,700  23,873  26,133   29,804  32,543  35,283  38,171
Primary GER Boys+Girls             40%     45%      50%     55%      60%     65%      70%     75%      80%
Primary GER Boys                   45%     49%      54%     58%      64%     67%      72%     77%      82%
Primary GER Girls                  35%     41%      46%     52%      56%     63%      68%     73%      78%
Middle School Enrollment Boys     8,000   9,000  10,000   11,000  12,000   15,000   17,000  19,000  21,000
Middle School Enrollment Girls    5,000   6,000   7,000   8,000   9,000   12,000  14,000  16,000  18,000
Basic GER                          30%      34%     39%     43%      47%     54%      59%     64%      69%
Basic GER Boys                     34%     38%      43%     46%      51%     56%      62%     67%      72%
Basic GER Girls                    26%     31%      35%     40%      43%     51%      56%     61%      67;i
Private Enrollment as % Primary     2%       3%      4%      5%       6%      7%       8%      9%      10%
Pass Rate Primary to Middle        43%     48%      53%     58%      63%     68%      73%     78%      83%
Education Expenditures as % Total  16%      17%     17%      18%     19%     20%      21%     23%      25%



Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Detailed Project Description
Djibouti has a gross enrollment rate in basic education of 29% which is probably the lowest in the
world. The public education system is based on the old French model and comprises 65 primary
schools (ecoles primaires), 9 lower secondary (middle) schools (colleges), and three high schools
(two lycees techniques and one lycee). Transition from one level to the next is controlled by a
competitive examination. Primary schools offer six grades (CI, CP, CE1, CE2, CM1, CM2),
junior high schools offer four (6eme, 5eme, 4eme, 3eme), and high schools offer either two, three
or four grades (2nde, 1lre and Terminale) in the Lyc6e, two years (for the BEP) in the Lyce
d'Enseignement Professionnel, and two (for the BEP) or four years (for the Bac-pro) in the Lyce
Industriel et Commercial. Post secondary education comprises Ecole Normale (teacher training)
and the opportunity to study abroad. In addition, 13 registered private schools and as many as 113
unregistered private schools offer classes and test preparation classes at all levels. The repetition
rates show two very important bottlenecks: at entrance to grade 6 and entrance to High School
(2nde). The major cause of these two barriers are exams that are required for entrance into higher
level grades. The new system will combine the primary and middle school cycles into one basic
education cycle and eliminate the competitive examination between the two cycles.
The principal constraint to increasing enrollment appears to be the lack of school places though
over time it is expected that demand constraints will need to be addressed for girls and for poor
children. Furthermore, an inadequate supply of textbooks has negatively impacted on education
quality and therefore, the project will also finance the provision of textbooks. The project will
also finance training and capacity building for the management of the reform and key units in the
Ministry of Education. Most of the additional classrooms will be added to existing schools thus
the recurrent cost impact will be less. In addition, certain pilot activities will take place, such as
the involvement of communities in school construction, operations & maintenance, and campaign
awareness on environmental and health (namely the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV))
issues.
By Component:
Project Component 1 - US$5.80 million
Increase School Capacity: This component will finance 190 new classrooms of which most will
be in existing schools and rehabilitating 36 out-of-use classrooms, including furniture. All of
these classrooms will be furnished. These 226 classrooms of which 210 will be in primary
schools and the rest in middle schools will increase the enrollment capacity by over 20,000. The
component will also rehabilitate existing sanitation services, or promote more efficient and
effective sanitation services in a drought-prone country by studying, and if agreeable,
implementing VIP toilets.
Standard drawings will be used for the most part. However, the project will also look into more
efficient designs which would be best suited for the country and the climate, and how best to deal
with the operations and maintenance issues for school upkeep.
The list of sites for the Phase I schools follows. Note that the first year sites are fixed while there
may be some adjustments on the second year sites.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
Classrooms to be Built or Rehabilitated in First Year
Region         District             # Classrooms
Rehabilitation   Extension
Djibouti-Ville     ZPS                              6
Arhiba                           12
Balballa                         12
Q5 Ancien                          6
Ambouli 2                          8
Damerjog                           6
Doraleh                           3
Ali-Sabieh     Ali Sabieh 2                        3
Holl-Holl                          6
Assamo                            3
Dikhil         Gorabou                           3
Yoboki            2               4
CES Dikhil                         4
Kouta Bouya                         3
Tadjourah      Tadjourah 1                         6
CES                              6
Tadjourah
Sagallou                          6
Kalaf            3               3
Obock         Alaili-Dada        3
TOTAL                             8              100
Project Component 2 - US$1.10 million
Create the Conditions for Quality Improvement through: (i) improving the curriculum for
teacher training, upgrading the training staff qualifications, providing up-to-date documentation,
and expanding the capacity of the CFPEN to train primary school teachers by constructing and
equipping additional classrooms at the center; (ii) providing all newly recruited contractual
teachers with 30 days of pre-service training through the provision of stipends during training;
(iii) ensuring that all contractual teachers are paid regularly and on time; (iv) assisting CRIPEN in
the reform of the Grade 1-9 curriculum, and the development and testing of new textbooks to
support this curriculum, through technical assistance, and the re-equipping of its small printing
press; (v) ensuring that all primary school students have access to a French language text, that
students in CE and CM also have texts in Science (including hygiene and the environment),
Arabic, and History/Geography, through purchase and distribution. In addition all classes will be
provided with arithmetic charts to be used in helping students and teachers in the instruction of
that language; (vi) ensuring that lower secondary school students have increased access to
appropriate textbooks, through supporting schools' efforts to purchase texts; (vii) preparing a
guide for primary school head-teachers, and providing two-months training for thirty head-
teachers a year, on administrative, pedagogic and community relations responsibilities; and (viii)
increasing the hours of effective instructional time by reducing the number and length of school
holidays in the winter season.
Detailed Description of Sub-components:
(i) Improved Teacher Training: The supply of qualified teachers will not be able to keep up with
the rapid expansion proposed unless capacity of CFPEN is doubled which will require at least



Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
nine additional classrooms plus equipment and documentation. CFPEN is also increasing entry
qualifications to require at least a baccalaureat for entry. CFPEN will develop a new curriculum
for teachers once the new curriculum for Grades 1 to 9 is completed.
(ii) Training for new contractual teachers: New contractual teachers are recruited in September
and start teaching immediately without any pedagogic training. The recruitment is delayed
because the exact number of new zontractual teachers needed is not known till September as
many teachers who decide not to teach inform the Ministry at the last moment. This precludes
the possibility of any pre-service pedagogic training though they may receive training later if they
continue to teach. Currently, the need for new contractual teachers is about 100 to 120 each year.
It was agreed that MOE would recruit by examination a group of 120 potential contractual
teachers in July and give them a month's training. They would receive a scholarship financed by
the project for the training period.
(iii) Ensure adequate availability of teachers: The project recruit and train additional contractual
teachers (230 per year) contractual teachers for the first three years and thus free up resources
allowing all contractual teachers to be paid in a timely manner. The project funds and the
Government counterpart funds would be deposited in an account from which contractual teachers
will be paid.
(iv) Development of New Curriculum for Grades 1-9: CRIPEN would develop the curriculum
using mostly its own human resources, CFPEN staff, School Inspectors and Teacher-Advisors.
The project will finance any technical assistance needed and provide equipment and materials
needed for developing, testing and implementing the new curriculum. The CRIPEN would be
provided a small printing press to produce teacher guides and other pedagogic materials.
(v) Access to Textbooks and Pedagogic Materials: Nonnally the Government loans textbooks to
primary students; however, they are in insufficient numbers. The project will finance textbooks
ensuring that all primary school students have access to a French language text, that students in
CE and CM also have texts in Science (including hygiene and the environment), Arabic, and
History/Geography. In addition, all classes will be provided with arithmetic charts.
(vi) Lower Secondary (or middle) School Textbooks: The project will also finance textbooks for
middle schools ensuring that lower secondary school students have increased access to
appropriate textbooks.
(vii) Head-Teacher Management Training: Currently, UNICEF is undertaking this program with
support from the French Cooperation. The program includes preparing a guide for primary
school head-teachers, and providing a two-month training course for thirty head-teachers in the
first year, on administrative, pedagogic and community relations responsibilities. The project
will finance the program for the subsequent years of Phase I.
(viii) Increase Effective Teaching Hours: Currently, the schools follow a francophone calendar
which includes european religious and other holidays falling generally during the cooler months
of the year. In order to maximize classroom teaching hours during the cooler months, it was
agreed that the school calendar would be revised, thereby increasing classroom instruction hours
during the year when the weather is bearable. This is a trigger for moving from Phase I to II.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
Project Component 3 - US$ 4.10 million
Improve the Government's Capacity to Manage Sector Reforms will be addressed through:
(i) supporting the activities of the CNOSEGE in its effort to coordinate the reforms and raise
resources to support the reform; (ii) capacity building support to the Ministry of Education key
units such as the Planning Unit (Service de la Planification), and the Education Projects Bureau
(BEPE); and (iii) other technical assistance necessary to improve private public partnership in
education, development of an effective gender strategy, and possible reforms in textbook policy.
Detailed Description of Sub-components:
(i) CNOSEGE: The Executive Secretariat of CNOSEGE is responsible for implementing the
reform program. The project will finance the secretariat including its fund-raising activities.
(ii) Support to MOE Planning Unit: The project will finance capacity building of the Ministry of
Education's Planning Unit, through expert assistance in dealing with the collection of educational
statistics, the production of a carte scolaire and analysis of census or household survey data, and
key staff in the BEPE including the purchase of project management tools (finance and
procurement). The planning unit will also carry out the monitoring and evaluation studies
required under the project. In addition, the unit will implement and monitor the Environmental
Management Plan (EMP).
(iii) Additional Technical Assistance will also be provided to enable the ministry to develop more
cost effective strategies including exploring the possibility of cost effective public/private
partnerships. Technical Assistance will also be provided to develop strategies to reduce the
gender gap in enrollments as well as the gap by income group. Pilot studies will also be financed
under the credit for optimal designs in school construction, demand financing, sanitation upkeep
and maintenance, and innovative teaching methods. The pilot activities would be carried out with
the assistance of experts in the field, through workshops and seminars, and/or study tours on best
practices.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Estimated Project Costs
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Component         US $million   US $million   US $million
Improve Access                                0.90         4.50          5.40
Create Conditions for Quality Improvement     0.30         0.80          1.10
Improve the Government's Capacity to Manage   3.20         0.80         4.00
Sector Reforms
Total Baseline Cost                           4.40         6.10         10.50
Physical Contingencies                       0.03         0.20          0.23
Price Contingencies                          0.07         0.20         0.27
Total Project Costs              4.50         6.50         11.00
Total Financing Required               4.50         6.50        11.00
Local       Foreign       Total
Project Cost By Category         US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                          0.40           1.40         1.80
Works                                          0.70           4.00         4.70
Services                                       2.80           0.30         3.10
Training                                       0.02           0.08         0.10
Operating Costs                                0.20           0.10         0.30
Total Project Costs    4.12          5.88         10.00
Total Financing Required    4.12          5.88         10.00






Annex 4
Page 1 of 5
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Economic Analysis of the Project
A. Overall Approach to Economic Analysis
The economic analysis for this project is developed in the following sections. Section B shows how
the project fits into IDA's country assistance strategy and how it helps Djibouti's growth potential.
Section C deals with key sector issues and how the project addresses them while Section D discusses
the program/project benefits for the sector. Section E considers whether public finance can be
justified for the proposed interventions and Section F tackles the question of whether a project
approach or simple budget support approach is appropriate. Finally Sections G and H, respectively,
address fiscal issues and the cost-effectiveness of the proposed approach.
B. CAS and Djibouti's Growth Potential
1. CAS
The areas of emphasis for the CAS are:
-  Promoting growth and employment generation through: (a) structural reforms that would,
over time, lay the basis for sustainable growth and restoration of competitiveness; and (b)
focusing on the development of the port, the country's main economic asset, and
associated infrastructure services, and taking maximum advantage of the increased transit
traffic to Ethiopia.
*  Human development and poverty reduction, focusing on: (a) quickly reversing the
extremely low enrollment rate in education; (b) addressing the overwhelming needs in
health (AIDS and tuberculosis crises); and (c) preparing a possible program of assistance
for vulnerable groups to cushion the impact of adjustment and the inevitable decline
anticipated in real wages.
*  Mobilizing donor support for Djibouti through demonstrated improvements in the policy
and govemance environment and implementation, and aid coordination around well-
articulated sectoral strategies.
The project directly supports the second element of the CAS strategy and indirectly the first element.
2. Potential Sources of Growth
A major element in Djibouti's development strategy is its human resource base given that the country
has very few natural resources. Its growth strategy depends on its human resource base and
exploiting its strategic location, i.e., the port serving the region, particularly Ethiopia. To increase
the benefits from the port, Djibouti needs to become a cost-effective competitor; and a key element in
this is to increase the productivity of its workforce. Thus, improved quality of the human resource
base is essential for Djibouti to improve its revenues from the port. In addition, Djibouti's location
and good quality banking system allows it to provide other services to the region but again unit costs
are due in part to high wages driven in part by the high civil service wages.
Finally, one of the major and growing sources of income for Djibouti are remittances from
Djiboutians working overseas especially in France and the neighboring GCC countries. However,
these labor markets require educated workers, and to keep this source of income growing, Djibouti
needs to develop its human resource base.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 5
C. Current Situation in the Education System
1. Access to Schools
Even though there is consensus that Djibouti's future growth depends on the development of its
human resource base, Djibouti's primary GER is 39% (44% for boys and 32% for girls) which is less
than half of the 85% average GER for Sub-Saharan Africa and the 95% GER in the Middle East and
North Africa Region. The situation is even more surprising when one considers that Djibouti's
population is 70% to 80% urban with over 60% in one single city. In addition, Djibouti's education
system is geared to preparing students for the French Baccalaureate Examination and the curriculum
is less than suitable for Djibouti's development needs. There is almost no instruction in Somali or
Afars which are languages spoken by most of the people, formal education is almost entirely in
French with some limited instruction in Arabic.
The principal reason for the low GER appears to be the availability of school places, and in urban
areas, where most people live, the demand for schooling far outstrips the supply.
2. Internal Efficiency of the System
The problem of school places problem is exacerbated by the low system internal efficiency
characterized by high repetition and drop-out rates. These high repetition and drop-out rates imply
that the average students needs 8.6 years to complete six years of primary education and needs 5.5
years to complete three years of lower secondary (or middle school). The high repetition rates peak
at the terminal year of each cycle and are driven by competitive examinations which students need to
take to pass from one stage to another. It is also driven in part by the curriculum which is geared to
preparing students for the French baccalaureate examnination and may be contextually difficult for
Djiboutians from less educated families.
3. Income and Gender Gaps in Enrollment Rates
Even though the main constraint at present appears to be school places, there is already evidence of
gender and income gaps which cannot be explained by lack of school places alone. These are
expected to become more prominent over time as enrollment rates rise.
According to the household expenditure survey data, in urban areas, the Net Enrollment Rate in
Primary Enrollment is 50% higher for the highest expenditure quintile compared to the lowest
expenditure quintile. The inequity is even worse in secondary education (lower secondary education
is part of basic education but the survey data did not separate the two), where the NER of the highest
quintile is 420% higher than the NER of the lowest quintile. The problem in urban areas is access -
demand exists among all groups but the rationing of sets ends up benefiting the better off who live in
areas where schools have historically been located. Any further expansion of places will help the
poorer segments of the population more particularly if care is taken to site the schools in areas where
the poor live.
There are also significant gender gaps and research indicates that educated mothers play a key role in
the country's overall development. There is a shortage of school places and any rationing works to
the detriment of girls enrollment. Parents are less willing for their girls to attend school because in
par., they may view the curriculum as foreign. In addition, despite the fact the education is officially
free, poor families still have difficulty paying the cost of books and materials. They prefer to use
their constrained resources for their boys who they feel have a better labor market potential. Finally,
the data from the Household Survey, showed that even if girls go to school, their parents pull them
out at an age when they think they can help around the household.



Annex 4
Page 3 of 5
D. Program Benefits
The proposed APL is designed to support the Government's ambitious reform program which is
expected to: (a) universalize basic education; (b) develop a more relevant curriculum for Djibouti's
development needs while maintaining the advantages of an internationally accepted curriculum that
they follow currently; (c) reduce gender and income inequities in enrollment; (d) increase system
efficiency; (e) increase the role of the private sector in provision of education; (f) increase the role of
communities in school management and maintenance; and (g) improve the quality of teachers.
(a) Universalize Basic Education: The Government has made the legal changes requiring a nine
year compulsory basic education for all children. The major problem at this stage is the supply of
school places and the Government proposes to address the supply problem by increasing school
capacity particularly in areas where existing schools are overcrowded and also providing
incentives to the private sector to invest in schooling. The demand side will be addressed by (i)
making the curriculum more relevant to the country, (ii) greater use of local languages, and (iii)
specific incentives targeted to girls and poor children.
(b) Curriculum Change: The curriculum will be reviewed and changed to make it more relevant
to Djibouti and to introduce Arabic and local languages. The Government still wants to maintain
the high current standards of the curriculum while making it more accessible to Djiboutians. The
curriculum change will be done by a national team.
( c) Gender and Income Inequity: The Government wants to reduce the direct cost of attending
school by providing an adequate supply of educational materials. In addition, the Government is
convinced that a revised and more nationally-oriented relevant curriculum, which also includes
Arabic and local languages, will increase demand for schooling by girls and children from poor
families especially if combined with the effort to reduce costs. The Government is also
considering various incentives to make it more attractive to girls and poor children to attend
school. This will include the possibility of payment of uniforms and other direct costs, food
and/or cash incentives. If these do not materialize, the second phase project may include
scholarship incentives for girls and children from poorer families.
(d) Increase System Efficiency: This is driven in part by the lack of places at the lower secondary
level and repetition of the primary examination to secure enough points for admission. It is also
driven in part by the fact that the curriculum is not adapted to the country and uses primarily a
foreign non-regional language. The Government hopes to increase efficiency by: (i) removing
the supply bottleneck, (ii) developing a more relevant curriculum which children from less
educated families can follow, and (iii) increasing use of Arabic and local languages to serve as a
bridge for children from families with limited exposure to French.
(e) Role of the Private Sector: The Government realizes that it will be unable to meet its
ambitious enrollment targets by itself and needs to increase the role of the private sector. The
new education law provides for private education at all levels and the Government is also willing
to provide tax and other incentives to the private sector.
(f) Increase Role of Communities in School Management and Maintenance: The new law
provides for this and the Government has for the first time set up school management committees
that involve parents in addition to teachers and managers. The parents' associations are being
encouraged to play an increased role in paying for operations and maintenance costs.
(g) Improve the Quality of Teachers: The Government will be increasing the minimum
education level required to enter the teacher training program. In addition, it is planning



Annex 4
Page 4 of 5
extensive retraining of teachers and head-teachers. Temporary teachers will now be recruited
earlier so that they can benefit from pedagogic training.
E. Justification of Public Finance to Support the Program
There is a global consensus that universal access to basic education is the right of each child and this
has been widely endorsed most recently at the Education for All Conference in Dakar. The positive
externalities of basic education provide ample public finance justification for supporting universal
basic education with public funds. In addition, Djibouti's economic future depends heavily on the
quality and productivity of its work-force as it has few other resources. Basic education is an
essential pre-condition to improve workforce quality and productivity. Thus, public funding for it is
also justified on the grounds of improving Djibouti's development potential.
Public support for universal basic education in Djibouti can also be justified on the grounds of
reducing income and gender inequities in enrollment which the Government proposes to address
through a variety of ways discussed above. Random surveys of school children will be done over the
ten year period (including a base-line in 2001) to assess progress in reducing gender gaps and income
gaps in enrollment.
F. Project Approach versus Budget Support Approach
The project approach is considered more appropriate in Djibouti's case because given the urgent fiscal
constraints, budget support money may get diverted to finance immediate current needs and the
schools may never get built. The supply of school places and the quality of schooling is easier to
address through a project approach.
G. Fiscal Impact of Program
Annex 4, Table 1 illustrates the potential fiscal impact. This appears to be quite manageable. The
required cost estimates include all levels of education, ministry overheads and potential grants to the
private sector. The Government projects the most likely scenario for Djibouti's growth to be 2.4% per
year during the period 2000-2010 and expects the budget to grow slightly slower at 2.2%. Under this
scenario, the education sector will require just under 26% of the budget. Should GDP grow at 3% per
year and the budget at 2.8%, then the budget share required for education will be under 25%. These
shares are in line with other countries in a similar situation.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 5
Annex 4, Table 1: Djibouti  Ten Y   Expenditure Plan in DF millions to Achieve Enrollent Targets
2000-01 2001-02 2002-03 2003-04 2004-05    -06  2006-07 12007-08 2008-09 2009-10
Education Recurrent Expenditure Requirement to
Finance Universal Basic Education and other parts
of the Education Reform Agenda             4,744   5,146   5,622   6,055   6,265   6,865   7,571   8,013   8,952   9,956
Primary Enrollnent Target Rate              39%     40%     45%      50%     55%     60%     65%     70%1   75%       80%
Scenario 1: GDP     at 2.4% Per v  and Bud et at 2.2% per year
GDP                                       90,766  92,944  95,175  97,459  99,798  102,194 104,646 107,158 109,729 112,363
Total Recurrent Budget                    31,487              0   33,641  343921  35       3        6,745  37,564|  38,402
Budget as % GDP                            34.7%   34.6%   34.6%   34.5%   34.5%   34.4%        34.3%   34.3   34.2%   34.2%
Required Education Expensditures as % GDP   5.2%    5.5%    5.9%    6.2%    6.3%    6.7%    7.2%    7.5%    8.2%    8.9%
Required Education Expensditures as % Budget    15.0%   16.0%   17.1%   18.0%   18.2%   19.5%   21.1%   21.8%   23.8%   25.9%
Scenarzo 2: GDP grows at 3% Per ear and Bud,et at 2.8% per year
GDP                                       90,766  93,489  96,294  99,182 102,158  105,223 108,379 111,631  114,980 118,429
Total Recuurent Budget                    31,487  32,369  33,275  34,207  35,164  36,149  37,161  38,202  39,271  40,371
Budget as % GDP                            34.7%   34.6%   34.6%   34.5%   34.4%   34.4%   34.3%   34.2%            34.1%
Reqd. Educ. as % GDP                        5.2%    5.5%    5.8%    6.1%    6.1%    6.5%    7.0%    7.2%    7.8%   83.4%
Expected Education Expenditures as % Total  15.0%   15.9%   16.9%   17.7%   17.8%]  19.0%   20.4%   21.0[  22.8%   24.7%
H. Cost Benefit of Proposed Approach
While the financing for the program can be justified on public finance grounds of externalities,
poverty reduction and gender inequity reduction grounds, this section addresses the cost-effectiveness
of the chosen approach. Djibouti needs to provide all its citizens with access to full basic education
as part of its long-term development strategy. Currently high rates of dropouts and repetition increase
unit cost per graduate. As a result of these reductions, an average graduate of the primary cycle in
2010 is expected to take 6.6 years to complete the 6-grade cycle as opposed to 8.5 years in 1999.
Also, the average time to complete the four grade middle school cycle will effectively decrease from
7.9 years in 1999 to 4.3 years in 2010. The increased system efficiency will reduce the number of
class-places needed to increase enrollment rates and significantly lower the annual recurrent cost
implications of the Government's goal to reach full-enrollment rates.
A Cost Benefit analysis was done for the whole program and is shown in Annex 4, Table 2 below.
Benefits are calculated on the basis of reductions in years needed to graduate from primary and lower
secondary schools. Time saved can be translated into direct cost savings as each student year in
primary costs an average of US$178, and each student year in lower secondary is expected to cost
US$290. Based on this the cost per graduate is calculated and the difference in cost from the 2000-
2001 (pre-reform) cost and the cost in the year of graduation is taken as the benefit per graduate. As
part of the reforms also entails reducing the primary cycle from six to five years by eliminating the
interim first year, a "synthetic" pre-reform five year primary graduate cost is estimated. The number
of years for this synthetic pre-reform five year primary graduate has been calculated based on the:
repetition and dropout rates prevailing currently in the primary cycle after eliminating the current:
first year which is used as an interim year. This yields a cost of $1,531 per graduate. The new system
graduates start in 2007; 2007 will have a mixed pool of old and new systems. This is also the last
year for old system graduates. Based on these benefits and the estimated investment costs (buildings,
equipment, books, teacher training, etc.) the intemal efficiency gains from the approach chosen yields
an 11% economic internal rate of return.






Annex 5
Page 1 de 1
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Financial Summary
Years Ending
2001-2004
Implementation
period
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4
Total Financing Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs             0.4      3.0       4.5      2.8
Recurrent Costs                       0.1       0.1      0.1
Total Project Costs            0.4      3.1       4.6      2.9
Total Financing                0.4      3.1       4.6      2.9
Financing
IBRD/IDA                    0.3       2.8      4.0       2.5
Government                  0.1       0.3      0.6       0.4
Total Project Financing        0.4      3.1       4.6      2.9






Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Organization
The project will be executed by the Ministry of Education (MOE). The CNOSEGE [Comite' National
d'Organisation et de Suivi des Etats Generaux de I'Education] will lead and coordinate the efforts of the
education reforrn, and will be supported by a Technical Committee who will translate the directives into
concise and implementable activities. These activities will be undertaken by the Directorate General of
National Education (DGEN-Direction Generale de V'Education Nationale) who will develop the yearly
project implementation plan, with input from other key departments in the MOE, and prepare the
monitoring and evaluation reports. The project activities will be implemented by the Executing Unit
Bureau d'Execution des Projets Education (BEPE), located in the DGEN. The BEPE will be responsible
for all procurement activities (including procurement planning and monitoring) and the financial
management of the project. In addition, the BEPE works in collaboration with the Department of
Housing, Urban Development, Environment, and Regional Development - Direction de l'Habitat et de
l'Urbanisme (DHU), for school construction activities. The selection of sites, and the preparation of
architectural plans and bidding documents are prepared by the BEPE and cleared through the DHU. The
DHU approves and is responsible for monitoring works with BEPE collaboration.
The BEPE will be responsible for drawing up the list of schools to be constructed/rehabilitated for each
year of the project, as well as conducting site visits.
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) will be forwarded to IDA for publication in the United Nation's
journal Development Business, so as to advertise major activities with regard to works, goods and
consultant services which would be required under an international competitive bidding process. Such
Notices are to be updated every year until all contracts and assignments have been awarded.
The BEPE has on its staff a junior procurement officer who has been trained by a seasoned resident
procurement consultant (during the course of 8 months). In addition, two other staff working in the BEPE,
(the architect and the financial officer) are both familiar with IDA procurement guidelines, both having
received on-the-job training from experts or from procurement staff on past IDA projects. The:
procurement assessment recommended that a seasoned senior procurement officer be recruited, who
would be responsible for the overall procurement process, and who would manage the procuremenlt
planning and monitoring, and supervise the junior procurement officer. This is necessary to ensure
quality and internal control. It is recommended that the junior procurement officer benefit fromn
additional procurement training, and that the senior procurement officer be recruited within the next 8
months, under TORs acceptable to the Bank.
Procurement Documentation
The Credit would finance civil works, goods, technical assistance, and contractual teacher salaries.
Procurement under the Credit would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's Guidelines for
"Procurement under IBRD Loans and Credits" - January 1995, and revised up to January 1999, and
"Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" - January 1997 and revisions up to
January 1999. Project components financed by other external donors would follow the respective donor
regulations.



Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
During the appraisal mission of October 2000, a Financial and Procurement Assessment was carried out.
The recommendations for both assessments are recorded in the attached action plan, and will be available
in the project file.
Procurement methods (Table A)
Civil Works:
The works would be generally concentrated around Djibouti-Ville, as well as in some remote areas. The
contract values are estimated to range between US$25,000 to US$300,000, and would not be of interest to
foreign bidders. Therefore, the works would be carried out under National Competitive Bidding
Procedures (NCB) and where applicable, simplified NCB procedures, as follows:
Civil works with an estimated contract value above US$50,000 would be awarded through National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) with advertisement in at least one national newspaper. Civil works below
US$50,000 would be awarded through simplified NCB procedures with advertisement in a local paper or
posting public area, up to an aggregate of US$0.5 million. Bidding would be based on simpler
documentation and contract forms. Bids would be opened and read in public.
Goods:
Goods would primarily consist of equipment and consumables for the executing agency, including heavy
duty photocopiers for CRIPEN, and school materials, such as textbooks and teacher guides. Textbooks
and teacher guides for the primary grades would be purchased through direct contracting (DC) in order to
make up for existing shortages during the first two years.  Current publishing rights reside with 1-3
French publishers (each publisher being responsible for certain textbooks), and the Government has been
unable to obtain the textbook copyrights. In addition, the MOE is exploring ways on how to strengthen
national capacity in printing textbooks. The current curricula will be revised and new sets of textbooks
developed. It is expected that the purchase of these new textbooks will be undertaken using Limited
International Bidding (LIB) procedures.
The purchase of computer equipment will be done through the United Nations Agencies (UN), acting as
suppliers, pursuant to their own procedures for an amount not exceeding US$80,000.
Goods with estimated contract values above US$100,000 will be packaged to the extent possible, and
would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The goods purchased through ICB
will be published in the Development Business, and a Specific Procurement Notice will be published in at
least one newspaper of national circulation. Goods with estimated contract values below US$100,000
would be procured through National Competitive Bidding (NCB) with advertisements in at least two
national newspapers, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000. Goods with estimated contract value
below US$50,000 would be procured through International Shopping (IS) up to an aggregate amount of
US$80,000 in all cases except where three capable suppliers exist in the country (Djibouti), then National
Shopping (NS) procedures would be used. International Shopping does not preclude national suppliers;
IS can include at least one national supplier. Direct Contracting would be used for amounts below
US$10,000 up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$20,000.
Services:
Expert services and training would be required under the school headmasters, and contractual teacher
training program, and additional assistance would be required for innovative pilot studies in the field of
private/public partnerships, improvements in school construction (cost-efficiency), operations &
maintenance, community participation, and demand financing, and innovative teaching methods.



Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
Large consultant contracts for amounts above US$200,000 will be advertised through the UN's
Development Business, for which expressions of interest will be requested. Following the short-listing
process, Quality and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) will be the preferred method of selection.
Impact assessments and small-size sampling surveys will be carried out using Selection Based on
Consultant's Qualifications (CQ) for contracts estimated to cost less than US$25,000, and Single-Source
Selection (SS) for services not exceeding US$15,000.
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                   Procurement    Methodl
ICB           NCB           Other2         N.B.F.      Total Cost
1. Works                      0.00           5.30           0.60          0.00           5.90
(0.00)        (4.90)          (0.50)        (0.00)        (5.40)
2. Goods                      0.80           0.41           0.05           0.00          1.26
(0.76)        (0.30)          (0.04)        (0.00)        (1.10)
3. Services                   0.00           0.00           3.41          0.05           3.46
!:_________________ _   X  :(0.00)          (0.00)         (3.30)        (0.00)         (3.30)
4. Incremental Operating      0.00           0.00           0.30          0.08           0.38
Costs                      ____l
(0.00)        (0.00)          (0.20)        (0.00)        (0.20)
Total                      0.80           5.71            4.36          0.13          11.00
(0.76)        (5.20)          (4.04)        (0.00)        (10.00)
1/ Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2/  Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff of
the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs..



Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ mnillion equivalent)
Consultant Services                                    Selection   Method
Expenditure Category      QCBS        QBS       SFB       LCS         CQ       Other   N.B.F.    Total
Costl
A. Firms                     3.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.11      0.00      0.00      3.11
(3.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.09)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (3.09)
B. Individuals               0.25       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00      0.10      0.35
(0.21)    (0.00)    (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (0.21)
Total    3.25       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.11      0.00      0.10      3.46
(3.21)    (0.00)         (0.00)    (0.00)  (0.09)    (0.00)   (0.00)    (3.30)
l\ Includingcontingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Comnmercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
All contracts under ICB would be subject to prior review (Works/Goods). The first five contracts,
regardless of contract value, and for each category (Works/Goods/Services) would be subject to prior
review. For the subsequent years of the Phase I project, starting on January 1, the first three contracts,
regardless of contract value, would be subject to prior review.
Works: All contracts for NCB above an estimated value of US$150,000 equivalent would be subject to
prior review.  Post-review  would be conducted during supervision missions and procurement audits.
Procurement audits would be carried out at least once a year.
Goods: All procurement of goods under ICB would be subject to prior review. All contracts for NCB
above an estimated value of US$70,000 equivalent would be subject to prior review. Procurement audits
would be carried out at least once a year.
Services: With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimnated to cost the
equivalent of US$50,000 or more and each contract for the employment of individual consultants
estimated to cost the equivalent of US$25,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 and 5
of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines will apply.



Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review 1
Expenditure Category    Contract Value                                  Contracts Subject to
Threshold           Procurement                 Prior Review
(US$ thousands)          Method                    (US$ millions)
1. Works                  > US$50,000              NCB            All ICB if any.
< US$50,000         Simplified NCB      NCB contracts above US$150,000
First 5 contracts regardless of
value; first 3 contracts for each
year starting January 1.
2. Goods                 > US$100,000              ICB             All ICB.
< US$100,000             NCB             NCB contracts above US$70,000
< US$50,000    IS or NS where there are at First 5 contracts regardless of
least 3 capable national  value; first 3 contracts for each
suppliers.       year starting January 1.
<US$10,000               DC
3. Services               > US$50,000              QCBS           Contracts above US$200,000
(Firms)                               would be advertised in the UNDB.
> US$25,000                             Contracts for firms above
(Indiv.)               CQ             US$50,000, and for individuals
SS            above US$25,000.
< US$25,000                             First 5 contracts regardless of
=< US$15,000                             value; first 3 contracts for each
year starting January 1.
All TORs
_____________________________________________________________IAll Sole Source
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement Documentation" and contact the Regional
Procurement Adviser for guidance.
Total value of contracts subject to prior review: 35%
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment: High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 8 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)



Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Ex enditure Cate o              Amount in SDRs             Financin Percentage
Civil Works                                 3170000.00       100% of foreign expenditures; 90% of
local expenditures
Goods                                       1730000.00       100% of foreign expenditures; 90% of
local expenditures
Consultant Services and Training            2120000.00                     100%
Incremental Operating Costs:
(a) audit fees                               30000.00                      100%
(b) other expenditures                      240000.00                      90%
Refund of the Project Preparation Fund      220000.00
Unallocated                                 290000.00
Total Project Costs                         7800000.00
Total                                      7800000.00
Operational costs include communication expenses, office supplies, furniture, audit fees, vehicle insurance and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment.
World Bank User
P:\Djibouti\Hd\44585\NEG\EnglishPAD\Annex6.doc
1 1117/00 9:56 AM



Annex 6 (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
1.    Financial Manaeement Assessment
During the appraisal mission, an IDA consultant conducted a financial management assessment
of the BEPE and the current system being used. The following were reviewed: (i) the
organization structure of the BEPE and the staffing of the financial management function; (ii)
accounting practices; (iii) internal controls; (iv) audit arrangements; (v) reporting; and (vi)
special account arrangements. An action plan to improve the financial management arrangements
and allow the BEPE to produce PMR-based reports, was prepared and agreed between the
mission and the Ministry of Education.
i.l. Current Financial Management system:
Organization structure: The staff structure at BEPE comprises of a Management Unit staffed by
the Project Coordinator, a Finance Unit staffed with one financial officer and an assistant
accountant, a Civil Works Technical Unit staffed by two engineers, one architect, and one
technician, and the Technical Unit staffed by one technician. The agency is supported by one
secretary, two chauffeurs, and a cleaning person. The structure as it stands will be responsible for
managing the launching of bids, contract management, administrative and financial management
of the operational expenses, and management of funds (payments).
Accounting: The principal activities devolved to the staff in the administrative and financial
units are as follows:
Opening of credit account > total financial amounts allocated in the General Government
Budget for the specified year. Only the investment credits will be delegated to the BEPE
(both the IDA Credit and the counterpart funds). The accounts maintained by the BEPE will
be disaggregated by component and sub-component.
Expenditure commitments > translated by the expenditure of credits charged to an accounting
line item. For all expenditures, the supporting documents (contract, bill of sale, etc.) are
established only after verification of available funds has been made, and control of such
expenditures is justified.  On the accounting side, the expenditure is reflected in a
commitment form established by the financial officer. The commitment form must spell out
the subject, the timing, amount, budget line item, and payment category.
Commitment operation > for funds committed and expensed (clearance by the technical unit
upon final handover/certification of completeness, on the amount to be paid, and certification
of expenses made), transactions are recorded in the accounting system following verification:
(i) validity of the expenditure on the basis of supporting documents, receipts, etc., bill of
sales, completion of contract respecting contract clauses and articles, and proper procurement
processes followed, invoices, advance payment, etc., and (ii) verification of sums/invoices
with regard to specific clauses in the contract and those of payment.
Administrative management and internal control of the BEPE: In addition to the information
system which needs to be established in the BEPE, the agency needs to prepare guidelines
governing regulations and procedures for project and financial management so as to: (i) ensure a
good comprehension of the way the financial information is being handled; (ii) standardize the
procedures; and (iii) access to information. The agency would need to organize working
meetings with all responsible parties to prepare an operational manual. The manual would



comprise: (i) the supporting documents (input and output); (ii) information flow chart; (iii)
responsibility; (iv) activity flow chart; and (v) control mechanisms.
1.2. Reporting and Database Management
During the assessment, a visit was conducted to the consultant firm ADETIP which has a
project/financial management system which encompasses different steps key to the process of
expenditure, contract management, and payment, in addition to day-to-day activity
planning/execution. The system used is Tompro on Windows (commercialized through the
company: Tomate), which has been adapted for the specific use of the ADETIP. It is to be noted
that the ADETIP is managing an ongoing IDA project, and has benefited from extensive
financing and training to bring it up to par with LACI requirements.
In its present form, the system has eight modules: (i) parameters, (ii) financial accounting ledger,
(iii) managerial and cost accounting, (iv) budget control, (v) financial control, (vi) fixed assets,
(vii) financial statements, and (viii) contract management. The system was ascertained as
efficient and responding to the needs of the ADETIP agency, and this system could be applied to
the BEPE. Principal characteristics are listed below:
Module                      Main functions
Financial Accounting        -Operational  database  (general  account  debit;
auxiliary; debit credit amounts; local and foreign
currency, analytical)
*Reconciliation with bank accounts
*Management of Accounts receivables and payables
General ledger and subsidiary accounts in local and
foreign currencies
Closing of accounts (monthly, annually, etc.)
Managerial    and    Cost  *Components
Accounting                  *Sub-components
-Budget reports
-Geographic location
-Financing source
-Reporting (general ledger, trial balance, etc.) with
possibility to retrieve data for multiple fiscal years.
Financial Control           -Accounting currency  (local plus and two foreign
currencies)
-Disbursement requests/funds withdrawal applications
*Characteristics of disbursements/withdrawal requests
-Reconciliation between actual payments requests and
actual disbursements
-Management of direct payments
Budget Control              *Budgetary control (financial and quantitative, monthly
or annually ; local or foreign currency)
Budgetary control based on agreement: financial and
by geographic area;
*Reports (budget, actual budget, various analysis:
single or multi-criteria)
Contract Management         -Type of contract
Contract  accounting:   advances,   withholdings
(guarantees), penalties, etc.



Disbursement forecast
Contract number
*Contract subject
Awardee
*Launching date
-Expected delivery date
-Non objection date
*Expected date of final delivery
*Bidder nationality
*Contract allocation (general account, budget, loan
category, geographic area)
*List of contracts
Management  of  financial  -Standard  financial  statements  (balance  sheet;
accounts                    statement of sources and uses of funds/income
statement, ...)
*LACI reports for the project duration
Fixed Assets management    -Inventory of Fixed Assets (type, quantity, valuation,
date of service, etc.)
Supplier
Accounting category ; budgetary and accounting
allocation of fixed assets
Location
Depreciation
-Disposal of Fixed assets
Module                      Functions
Sorting parameters           Project ID and currency used
* Fiscal years
Currency
Decentralized data entry locations
Chart of accounts, managerial reports, geographic
areas of intervention, etc.
* Books of accounts
Donors
* Contracts
Categories of disbursement
User Management              Data storage ; restitution ; correction; cleaning; etc.
* Import/export of data to other Tempro modules
It is expected that the application would be modified to differentiate the operations from the
projects, as well as funding sources to allow for reporting in financial and accounting terms of the
project objectives and activities. The concept should allow for proper monitoring of the project
during the life of the credit, namely: (i) chart of accounts; (ii) by category, component, and sub-
component; (iii) by geography (type of establishment, site and district); (iv) by category of
expenses; and (v) in local and foreign currency. Reporting of multi-level data is planned, which
wiU bring about a more dynamic approach to the management of the project, and which should



enable good analysis of the project outcomes and the interpretation of such data, but also a means
to disseminate project outcome/impact to the various stakeholders (Government, IDA, Auditor).
Each procedure is programmed in a transactional mode. Each user has access to certain
transactions which will permit him/her to supplement the data with valid input.
It is to be noted that the Tompro on windows system has certain inherent weaknesses to the
monitoring of the project. Monitoring of the procurement process from bid launch to award is not
developed or planned. The following data could be included to avoid future problems: (i) bid
number; (i) procurement method; (ii) date of publication; (iv) bid submission; (v) date of receipt
of bids; (vi) number of bidders; (vii) date of request for bid opening by the Commission des
marches; (viii) date of bid opening; (ix) date of award; (x) date of no objection sent by IDA.
The BEPE has developed a simplified activity planner/project management tool using Excel
Microsoft for the projects they manage (BAD, Norwegian Fund, etc.). In addition, the BEPE is
also using an accounting package called "Ciel Compta" to monitor debits/payments for its
operations. Though these systems may well respond to the actual situation, in terms of future
project volume and complexity, they do not respond to the requirements of project management,
nor to the necessary security and coherence of the data being entered. The systems are delinked
from each other and do not build upon an integrated system which is flexible and demand-
oriented. It is recommended that the BEPE purchase a system like or comparable to the one used
by the ADETIP.
2.    Audit Arrangements
The BEPE has used private independent auditors for all the projects it has managed in the past,
namely because the country did not have a Financial auditing function within the government. It
has been the norm to use private auditors.  The field review of past audits highlighted that the
auditor findings related mainly to the lack of equipment and software, and delays in payment
from Government counterpart funds. The proposed project would finance equipment and project
management software, and the counterpart funds will be established in an account held in the
Central Bank which would be replenished by the Government once every semester. The auditor
will be required to review the financial accounts of the BEPE, in addition to the special account
managed by the Treasury for the payment of contractual teacher salaries. The BEPE will appoint
auditors according to audit terms of reference acceptable to the Bank by March 31, 2001. The
cost of the audit will be financed under the proceeds of the IDA Credit.
To facilitate disbursements against eligible expenditures, the BEPE will open a Special Account
(SA) at a Commercial Bank in Djibouti, to be operated by them under terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.
The special account will be opened in a commercial bank, and the counterpart funds in the
Central Bank. The request for withdrawals will be done by the BEPE. It has been agreed that the
counterpart account will be managed by the BEPE and will be replenished in two installments
(once every semester) based on the amounts earmarked in the Government's budget. The
budgetary controls will be done following the use of funds. The special account will be used
based on the procedures described in the Credit Agreement. Invoices of a certain threshold will
be paid directly by IDA or by local payment by BEPE. The counterpart account will require two
signatures (BEPE and the General Directorate of Finance).  With regard to payment of
contractual teachers, the national regulations will apply to the procedures of payment slips et
method of payment. However, given the special financing method being put in place, the BEPE
is to be informed on a monthly basis of the nominative list of contractual teachers, school to



which they have been assigned, and the amount to be disbursed through the Special Account. In
addition, the project auditor will be required to certify the accounts for this activity.
3.2. Chart: Flow of Funds
Govt         0         __               _
Counterpart Account Govt.
2      Special Account BEPE
Local payments
Direct payments
Third
Party
IDA will, upon request, make an authorized allocation of US$0.8 million to the SA. Initially, the
allocation would be limited to US$0.5 million, while the full allocation could be claimed when
the total disbursement and commitment reach US$3.0 million.  The BEPE will submit
replenishment applications for the SA on a monthly basis with all supporting documentation as
required by IDA.
3.3. Use of Statements of Expenditures [SOEsJ:
The project funds will be withdrawn from IDA based on traditional methods of disbursements.
PMRs will be provided quarterly for reporting purposes only. The first PMR-based report will be
due to IDA for review by December 31, 2001. Disbursements would be made against SOEs and
full documentation in accordance with traditional withdrawal procedures. Civil works under
US$150,000, Goods under US$70,000, and consultant services under US$50,000 for firms and
US$25,000 for individuals would be subject to SOE procedures.



ANNEX 6(C): LACI Certification 4-B
Djibouti School Access & Improvement Project
Report on the Assessment of the PMR-based Disbursements
Ineligiblefor PMR-based Disbursements at Appraisal Stage
Part I: Financial Management System
I have reviewed the financial management system relating to this project. The objective of the
review was to determine whether the project has in place an adequate financial management
system as required by the Administrator under OP/BP 10.02.
My review is based on the IDA's financial management consultant assessment of the project
implementing agency. The assessment took place during appraisal and was based on the World
Bank Group's guidelines for "Review of Financial Management System," and focused on the
assessment of the project accounting system, internal control, planning, budgeting and financial
reporting system, selection of an auditor, and the format and contents of the Project Management
Report (PMR) to be submitted by the Borrower in support of Withdrawal applications.
I confirm that the project satisfies IDA's minimum financial management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate project financial
management system that could provide, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely
information on the status of the project as required by IDA for PMR-based disbursements.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious
enough to withhold certification. I have detailed in the attachment the inadequacies that I found
in the system, and included an action plan for remedying the situation that was agreed upon with
the Borrower.
Signed by:
Financial Management      v                                       N  I
Specialist                K           {dO'.i1,  O0
(FMS-OPR)                 Rafika Chaouali, MNSHD                 Date
Part II: Procurement/Contract Management System
I have reviewed the procurement/contract management system relating to this project, including
the format and content of the section on Project Management Reports (PMRs) on procurement
monitoring. The objective of the review was to determine whether the procurement/contract
management system adopted by the project conforms to IDA's guidelines for procurement in
investment projects. My review was based on the "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to
Implement Project Procurement, Setting of Prior Review Thresholds and Procurement
Supervision Plan" guidelines issued by IDA.
I confirm that the project satisfies IDA's minimum procurement management requirements.
However, in my opinion, the project does not have in place an adequate procurement/contract
management system that can provide the appropriate data on major procurement and contract
management (PMR - Section 3) as required by IDA.



During my review, I observed some inade acies in the system; however, they are not senrous
enough to withhold certification.   hav  detailed these inadequacies in the attachment, and
included an action plan for remedy  thsituation that was agreed upon with the Borrower.
Signed by:                                               0 1
Procurement Specialist                                  TQI " i S   1 3  ,L
Christi fitAccraiT&~                      Date
Procureme   taff, MNSt
Part III: Physical Monitorable Indicators and Overall Assessment
I have reviewed the project's system for monitoring physical implementation progress, including
its monitorable indicators for major outputs. In my view, the system cannot provide the
appropriate data on physical progress (PMR-Section 2) required by IDA.
During my review, I observed some inadequacies in the system; however, they are not serious
enough to withhold certification. I have detailed these inadequacies in the attachment, and
included an action plan for remedying the situation that was agreed upon with the Borrower.
Signed by:                  i  A
Task Team Leader      1/ 4-L-   UJ                                 2, dO
Qaiser Khan, MNSHD                     Date
Part IV: Concurrence of LOA for Eligibility of Project for PMR-Based Disbursements
I have conducted a reasonable review of the process followed by the Task Team in assessing the
project, and I concur with its recommendation that this project is not eligible for PMR-Based
Disbursements.
Signed by:            C____ __a              _
FMS-LOAADO                Andrina Ambrose, LOAEL                Date
T.
Thu-Ha Nguyen, LOAEL                 Date



Date: October 27, 2000
Issue                           Actions                          Respons.    Date
._            ~~~Agency
B. FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT
BR. Financial Management
System
B1.a Identification and selection    Emit order.                  BEPE         31 March 2001
of a project management system.
Installation.                    Supplier     31 March 2001
Bl.b Training of users.         Training in:                      BEPE         30 April 2001
- system procedures/use.
- security options.
- functionalities
B1.c User tests.                 Verify functionality of each     Users/       30 April 2001
module et system coherence on the   BEPE
basis of testing and report outputs.
B 1 .d User manual on parameters    Description of parameters to  BEPE         30 April 2001
and reports.                    determine managerial reports
which respond to effective project
_____________________________ management.
B .e Identify fixed parameters.  - Credit characteristics        BEPE          30 April 2001
- Disbursement methods
- Identification of chart of
accounts, components and sub
components
- Identification of sites and
districts.



Bl.f Project Management Reports  In order to prepare quarterly   BEPE         31 December 2001
(PMRs)                          PMRs, one must be able to print a
budget situation on an automatic
and punctual basis, to conduct
analyses on variances, establish
unit costs for different program
indicators, and plan commitments
and expenditures.
The BEPE will prepare the first
draft PMR for IDA review.
Following comments/approval, the
final report will be prepared and
used by the BEPE on a reporting
basis only.
B.2. Procedures manualfor
financial management
B2.a General Operations Manual    Organization guide which would  BEPE        30 June 2001
define the roles and responsibilities
of the BEPE in order to facilitate
communication and exchange of
project inforrnation.
B2.b Formalizing procedures by  Description of each operation:   BEPE         30 June 2001
an Organizational Procedures    - supporting documents for
Manual.                         inputs/outputs
- information flow
- roles of each agency
- data needed
- control mechanisms
B2.c Formal presentation of     Project indicators (following data    BEPE    30 June 2001
management reports.             consolidation): internal, external
audit, IDA.
R3. Audit
B3.a Appointment of an auditor.    Selection of an auditor whose  BEPE        31 March 2001
contract would be renewable based
on satisfactory performance.
C. PROCUREMENT
C.l. BEPEFunction
Cl .a No procedures manual exist.   Prepare a detailed procedures  Technical    30 June 2001
manual which would outline the  unit/
function of the organization, the  BEPE
various activities being
undertaken, the steps for each
activity and the respective
_  responsibilities.
C .b Procurement function lacks a  Recruit a qualified and seasoned  MEN/     30 June 2001
senior officer.                 procurement officer, and train   BEPE
existing junior procurement staff in



IDA procurement, through the
ILO/Bank training in francophone
Africa.
Cl.c Filing procedures need     Amalgamate filing in one area, and   MEN/    30 September
improvement.                    follow a filing method which links   BEPE    2001
contracts with donor funding.
C .d No system to monitor       A computerized system needs to be  Technical    31 March 2001
procurement or contract         implemented to record dates and  unit/
management.                     types of contracts from launching    BEPE
to contract award, and payments.            _
C.2 Proceduresfor Evaluation of
Bids
C2.a Delays in BidopeThe Commission des Marchds      Govt/        15 March 2001
C2.a Delays mi Bid opeming      should be called upon to conduct    MEN
the opening of bids the same day,
shortly after the deadline for the
submission of bids.
C2.b Bid evaluation.            The process of evaluation within  MEN/       28 February 2001
the BEPE must include a         BEPE
committee of at least three people
with adequate qualifications.
C2.c The bid evaluation report is   The final evaluation report should    Gov't/  31 March 2001
missing information such as what   comprise three reports: A-minutes   MEN/
has been read in public in addition   of the bid opening; B-technical and   BEPE
to details regarding the basis for  price evaluation report; and C-
award or rejection. The evaluation   Award evaluation report. For
report does not make a firm     report A, all information on what
recommendation for award.       was read in public (name of bidder,
proposed lots, price, etc. ), and the
report must make a firm
recommendation on the bidder
who was substantively responsive
to, and the lowest evaluated
bidder. For all ICB, the bid
evaluations will be submitted on
IDA's Standard Bid Evaluation
Report document.
C2.d Delays in contract signature   Improve the process of contract  Gov't/  31 March 2001
due to the number of required   signature.                      MEN
signatures.
C3. Standard bidding documents
C3.a Evaluation criteria are weak    Evaluation criteria should be better  MEN/  31 March 2001
and are not being necessarily used   defined and respected during bid  BEPE
during the analysis of bids.    evaluation. For all ICB, IDA's
Standard Bidding Documents
(SBDs) will be used. These SBDs
will also be adapted for use in
NCB.



Annex 7
Page 1 of 1
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Project Processing Schedule
Project Schedule                               Planned              Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)        7
First Bank mission (identification)          06/01/2000
Appraisal mission departure                   10/01/2000          09/30/2000
Negotiations                                  11/08/2000          11/08/2000
Planned Board Date                             12/19/00
Planned Date of Effectiveness                 03/31/2001
Prepared by:
World Bank (Qaiser Khan, Task Team Leader/Sr. Economist); Ministry of Education of the Republic
of Djibouti
Preparation assistance:
Ministry of Education staff; World Bank staff (listed below)
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                Speciality
Marlaine Lockheed             Education Sector Leader
Nicholas Bennett              Sr. Education Specialist
Eileen B. Sullivan            Operations Analyst
Claude Ghcuzi                 Consultant - Financial Specialist
Stephanie Cohn                Consultant Researcher
Christian Rey                 Lead Operations Officer - Accredited Procurement
Karine Pezzani                Language Program Assistant
Rafika Chaouali               Sr. Financial Mgt. Specialist - Accredited FMS
Ghada Youness/Ferid Belhaj/    Legal Counsels
M. Al-Sheikh
Thu-Ha Nguyen                 Disbursement Officer
Andrina Ambrose               Sr. Financial Management Specialist - LOAEL Accredited
FMS
Hocine Chalal                 Environmental Specialist
World Bank User
P:\Djibouti\Hd\44585\NEG\EnglishPAD\Annex7 .doc
11115/00 2:10 PM






Annex 8
Page 1 of 1
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Documents in the project file
A. Project Implementation Plan
a. Standard Bidding Document for Works
b. Standard classroom drawings with seating space (desk/chairs)
c. Textbook and teacher guides requirements
d. BEPE Operations Manual
e. MOE Organigramme
f. First Year Classroom Sites
B. Bank Staff Assessments
a. Environmental Assessment
b. Procurement Assessment
c. Financial Assessment
C. Other
*Including electronic files






Annex 9
Page 1 of 1
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Statement of Loans and Credits
Odginal Amount in US$ Millions    Difference between expected
and actual
disbursementsa
Prolect ID    FY   Borrower  Purpose                                   IBRD     IDA       Cancel.        Undisb.     Orig   Frm Rev'd
P056419      1999  Djouti    DJ-EX-COMBATANTS REINTE                    0.00        270        0.001        2.49 1    1 58   3    0.54
P069930      2000  Djiboutl    DJ-INTL. ROAD CORRIDOR REHAB. PROJECT    0.00       15.00       0.00        1517       0.44        0.00
P044584      1999  DjibouHl _ DJ-PU8LIC WORKS/SOC.DEV                   0.00       14.80       0.00        12,45.    -0.68        0.00
P044174      1997  Djlboutl    DJ-TECH.ASSIS (PATARE)                   0.00       6.50        0.00         3.53      3.86        0.00
Total:      0.00      39.00        0.00        33.64      5.20        0.54
DJIBOUTI
STATEMENT OF EFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                         Disbursed
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
FY Appr-al            Compny                      Lon   Eulty   Quasi  Partic    Loan   Eaulty   Qwsl   Parfic
Total Portfolio:       .         000|                  0.00   Z0   OX           OX.0 .00
________________                                      Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval           Company                         Loan      Equty    Quosi    Paric
|______________ |Total Pendino Commitment:             0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00






Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Country at a Glance
M. East   Lower-
POVERTY aWd SOCIAL                                            I North   middw_-
Dillbouti    Africa   Incsome    Development diamond'
1 999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        0.65       291     2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$                     790      2,060      1.200
GNP (Atlas method, USS billions)                       0 51       699      2.513                       T
Average annual growth, 1993.99
Population (%)                                          2.3       2.1 1t     l
Labor force%)                                                      3.0       1 2     GNP            7                 Gross
Most recent etimate (latest year avalatble. 1993-99)                                 capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% of poDulation below national pove ty line)
Urban population (% ot total oopulatton)                83        S5         43
Lite expectancy at birth (years)                        50         6t        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 IWe birtIs)                106         45        33
Child malnutrition Iy% of children under 5)                        1 5       t6                Access to sale water
Access to improvead water source (% of populatlon)       ..        71        86
lltiteracv (% of pooulation aae 15+)                    37         36        16
Gross Drimarv enrollment (%of school-age population)    39         9S       114         --Djibouti
Male                                                  45        102       114         ------- Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                33         88       116
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1991       1999     _ _        _              _       -_
Economic ratios,
GDP eUSS bilhonsJ                                      0 40      0 52
GroDss domestic rtvesumentIGOP                                                                       Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP                                                                    Trade
Gross domestic savinps/GDP
Gross national savings/GDP
Current account batance/GDP                                                          Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                                   06        0 3                D        ic   i J            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                         44 6      5S 5                Savings
Total debt serviceexoorts
Present value of debt/GDP                                        36.1
Present value of debbexports ,
Irdebtedness
1979.8t9  1989-99    199S      1999   1999-03
(averapo annual growth)
GiOP                                          -2 7      0.7                             -Djibouti
GNP per capita                                         -O 2       -0 5                        Lower-middle-income group
ESports of goods and servic"s-
STRUCTURE ofthe ECONOMY
1979     1989      1998       1999     Growth rates of output and Investment ()
{%I ol GOP)
Agriculture                                             3.4        ..        2.
Industry                                               21.0                          O.-
Manufacturing                                         5.6                          -2     94   as   se            s
Services                                               75.6 6        
Private consumption                                                 -r.
General government consumplion                                                                      G                 
Imports of goods and services
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999
(average annual orowth)
Agriculture
Industry
Manufacturing
Services
Private consumption
Generai government consumption
Gross domestic investment
Imports of goods and services
Gross national product                                             1 7       1.4
Note. 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.
The diamonds show four kev midicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. 11 data are missing, Ihe diamond will



Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Country at a Glance
Djibouti
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998      1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)
Consumer prices                                  .
Implicit GDP deflator                                              3.0               4
Government finance                                                                   2
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                  o                    , 
Current revenue                                  .4    95    Os    97    98    99
Current budget balance                                                                      - GDP deflator    e  CPI
Overall surplus/deficit
TRADE
1979     1989      1998      1999
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)
n.a.
n.a.
Manufactures
Total imports (cif                              ..
Food
Fuel and energy
Capital goods
Export price index (1995=100)                                        .
Import price index (1995=100)
Terms of trade (1995=100)                                 .
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ rrillions)                              1979    1989        1998      1999      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                    .
Imports of goods and services
Resource balance                                 ..       ..                           4
Net income
Net current transfers                                                                1.8 11
Current account balance                          .        .2
Financing items (net)
Changes in net reserves                          ..                            .
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)
Conversion rate (DEC, locaW/US$)                      177.7      177.7    177.7
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998      1999
(US$ millions)                                                                       Compositlon of total debt, 1998 (USS milIlona)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            26      179       288
IBRD                                           0        0         0
IDA                                            0       26        50        49                      G        15  B
Total debt service                               2       15          6
IBRD                                           0        0         0                                                C: 9
IDA                                           0         0         1         1
Composition of net resource flows                                                       E: 119
Official grants                                5       32        48
Official creditors                           -1         3         2
Private creditors                             0        -1         0
Foreign direct investment                      0        0         6                                            D: 95
Portfolio equity                              0         0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0        9         3                A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                  0        2         2         1      B - IDA    D - Other rrultilateral   F - Private
Principal repayments                          0         0         0         0      C- IMF                        G - Short-term
Net flows                                      0        2         2          1
Interest payments                              0        0         0         0
Net transfers                                  0        2          1         1
Note: This table was produced from the Development Economics central database.                                          9/13/00



Annex 1 
Page 1 of 4
Additional annex
DJIBOUTI: School Access and Improvement Program
Environmental Management Plan
The School Access and Improvement Program is intended to provide the Government of the Republic of
Djibouti with effective support in developing the country's education capacities through three types of
actions:
* Improving access by increasing the capacity of a number of existing primary schools.
Improving the quality of instruction by providing textbooks and contributing to better training of
principals with regard to school management.
Supporting Government's capacity to manage the sector.
This Program, financed by IDA through a Adapatble Program Loan (APL), is subject to IDA's
implementation criteria for Category B projects, as set out in its Operational Manual (Section 4.01).
Accordingly, this Environmental Management Plan (EMP) will form an integral part of the project
implementation documents.
Institutional and Legal Context
Institutional Framework
From the institutional standpoint, the holding of the Education Etats-Generaux over the period December
2-7, 1999 was of great importance for the education sector. The event resulted in an enactment of a
framework law on the education system.
The education sector benefits from several multilateral (European Union, UNDP, IDA, African
Development Bank, etc.) and bilateral (Japan, Saudi Arabia, France, etc.) cooperation programs, with an
emphasis on school construction.
Where environmental matters are concerned, this sector was recently placed under the Ministry of
Housing, Urban Development, Environment, and Regional Development (MHUAT). Here, too, an
extensive participatory process was launched in the context of preparation of the National Environmental.
Action Plan (NEAP), with the national NEAP validation forum held April 10-12, 2000 playing an
important role.
Regulatory Framework
A national education master plan will be the subject of extensive consultation among the parties
concerned, particularly on the occasion of the national conference scheduled for next October.



Annex 11
Page 2 of 4
The country's General Environmental Law, expected to be promulgated very shortly, is divided into four
major titles:
Title 1:         Concepts, Objectives and General Principles, and Institutional
Organization
Title 2:         Protection of Environments
Title 3:         Protection of Animal and Plant Species
Title 4:         Regulation of Pollution
Implementing decrees should quickly specify the conditions for putting the main chapters of this
framework legislation into effect.
Other Agencies And Bodies Involved
As regards environmental education, the Directorate of the Environment maintains close collaboration
with the National Education Research and Pedagogic Information Center [Centre de Recherche, et de
Production dInformation de l 'Education Nationale- CRIPEN], in particular through the formulation of an
awareness campaign strategy on environmental problems.
Infrastructure facilities in the education sector are provided by the Directorate of Housing, Urban
Development, Environment, and Regional Development (DHU). However, as the current reform process
is not yet completed, a number of serious malfunctions are preventing the Directorate from perforning
the role of executing agency assigned to it in the past. The Planning Unit of the Ministry of Education
will be the contracting authority's representative for implementation of this project.
Because the system for gathering and analyzing data on the public health system is no longer operational,
as was confirmed during the visit made to Djibouti's Pelletier Hospital and to the Djibouti-City health
district, reliable country-wide epidemiological data are unfortunately unavailable. This state of affairs
applies to the school population in particular. Under these conditions, it will be difficult to define and use
indicators capable of measuring the success of actions to mitigate the environmental impacts of the
project.
Potential Impacts of the Project
The mission by an IDA environment specialist to the Republic of Djibouti in June 2000 confirmed the
degraded situation of the sanitary facilities in all of the schools visited. Discussions with school staff and
parents of students revealed the concern felt by the latter regarding the adverse effects of the situation on
the students. The keeping of photographic archives was begun during this mission.
The impacts considered will not be due solely to the project but also to the prevailing situation, which is
characterized by significant degradation of the existing facilities. Since a particular aim of the project is
to increase the capacity of schools, the main environmental measure to be included in the project will be
to construct or rehabilitate the sanitary facilities of these schools, and to design a system of upkeep and
maintenance that will ensure the appropriate functioning of the schools.



Annex 11
Page 3 of 4
Mitigation Measures
Activity           Potential impacts           Mitigation measures   Responsible
Use of unsuitable materials in   Technical works  Ministry of Education
the construction of classrooms   specifications
Rehabilitation and                              prescribing the quality
expansion of schools                            of materials to be used
for fireproofing and
insulation (no asbestos)
and also prohibiting use
of lead-based paint
Health risks on account of  Construction of       Ministry of Education
expansion of the schools and the additional sanitary
increased need for sanitary  facilities
facility
Health risks because existing    Rehabilitation of  Ministry of Education
facilities not in good operating  existing facilities
order
Improvement of     Degradation of health       Preparation of an     Ministry of Education
school management  conditions due to limited   environmental training
management abilities of school  program for school
principals                  principals
Improvement of     Health risks due to ignorance of Preparation of an  Ministry of Education
teaching conditions.  collective and individual  awareness-raising   (CRIPEN)
hygiene measures in the school  campaign aimed at
environment.                teachers, students and
parents
Risks stenmning from upkeep    Design and introduction Ministry of Education
and maintenance problems    of an upkeep and
-maintenance system
Although a number of actions cannot be included in the project, the Djiboutian authorities have been
advised to take the following steps in order to facilitate subsequent decision-making on health and
environmental issues in the school environment:
An epidemiological study on the health situation of children attending the schools, including an
attempted breakdown of the causes of the morbidity observed.
*  In conjunction with the preceding action, improvement of the school medical system in order to
track the development of the health status of children enrolled in school.
* A national awareness/sensitization program regarding individual and collective hygiene,
especially in schools.



Annex I 1
Page 4 of 4
Monitoring Measures
Activity                     Indicator                     Responsible entity       Frequency
Construction of additional   Number of toilets built       Executing agency         Six-monthly
classrooms
Rehabilitation of existing   Number of toilets repaired    Executing agency         Six-monthly
sanitary facilities
Training and sensitization   Number of principals trained.    Ministry of Education  Six-monthly
actions                      Number of teachers/students/
parents reached by sensitization
actions.
Upkeep and maintenance of    Number of repair and          Ministry of Education    Six-monthly
sanitary facilities          maintenance interventions.
Promptness of response by
responsible entities
Planning of EMP Implementation
Table 1.   Implementation Planning
Activities                    Year 1                       Year 2                       Year 3
Q1    Q2    Q3    Q4    Qi    Q2    Q3    Q4    Ql    Q2    Q3    Q4
Construction of            XX    XX                      XX    XX                     XX    XX
additional
classrooms
Rehabilitation of   XX             XX            XX             XX             XX             XX
existing sanitary
facilities
Training and                       XX    XX                     XX    XX                      XX    XX
sensitization
actions
Upkeep and                  X              X              X              X             X             X
maintenance of
sanitary facilities                                                             _
Cost of EMP Implementation
Table 2.   Estimated Implementation Cost
Activities                                                 Total cost in US$
Design and construction of sanitary facilities             Included in infrastructure cost
Rehabilitation of existing sanitary facilities             Included in infrastructure cost
Training and sensitization actions                         10,000
Upkeep and maintenance of sanitary facilities              30,000
TOTAL                                                      40,000



Annex 12.
RU8URUQQ.U DE OJIBOUfL                4        0E4.                            Pag{e f3 f
Vng a   . i-?l.                   (0                                            -,
Ag~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;r
W         D STS*    U LIUCATON NAMONAiE                                               yJ ,
........ ./MEN
Du 02 au 07 D.&remrre 1999
LE MtINLlSE,
-------- -MA Monsieur Ican-Louis SA2-B1
r-      '7t             H7 -                              Vice-President
Bureau Regional dui 4eyen Orient
*-   g2  __ _< * l - ei-4 !eP;*t 0W' '                  t t de 1'Aftriquc du Nord
Obiet: LETTRE DE POLITIQUE SECTORIELLE
Monsieur la Vice Pr6sident.
l'ai "hoaneur de vous info.rmer par la present leere sur la poltiique sacorielle an
mziere d'6ducaion arr6t6t par Ic Gouvenement pour la dtcennie 2001-2010.
Depuis mai 1999, nous avons inii& ulne vaste rcflexion sur le devenir du sysrkme
4ducamif at a Travers une concerration ouvertc, large at approfondie dont le point culmiinana a ctc
ies Etats Gdn6raux de 1'Education, organises en d6cembre dernier, sous le Haut[ Pananage dtL
P?rsidcnt dic la. Rpublique, le Gouvernenent a ddcid6 de crier les conditions favorabies ;a
l'6aCrnen1ce d'une eccie nouvelle at renov6e ripondant aux psroccupations du peupil
djibouti5n. Aujourd'hui. le systeme 6ducatif est limite par sa capacitc de repondre aux at7ente;
de la aation cr raison de son inadaptation au contcxte economnique, social et culturel. .4 peine, un
enfan-L sr deux frequence V'*coi eat les d6perdirions scolaircs sont extrdemernnt dievc:s. Jusqu i
present pcu d'afforts ont 4te fourmis pour nettrea 1 la disposition des 61vve-. ^I ies ensI.nani;
des supports didactiques adaptes.
Conscienw  de ces riaux qui fragilisant [a systr,   a dati  at d  coup
comprozternt les ;ilssions qui lui sonW  assignces, ]'Etat a decidd, conrforme=nt aux
recOxmazdations issues des E ats Gin*aux dc I'Education de proccder & une veritabie
refondation dci systeme educanif. C'est dalas ce cadre qu'a ae adoptec, en an0.t 2000, urze
nouvelle Loi d'Ozienration, et, ont: it d6&ijs un Schema Diracteur ddcennal (2Oli0'10) ainsi
qu'un Plan d'Action quinquennal (2001/2005). D'une maniere ginerale, la nouve'"j dynarniqua
du Sacteur cducarif reposc sur unc volontr: i) dIaccompagner de rnanicxre cr6ative une decennie
axccpoarnelle marquee par La fin d'un millinaizc et le commencenient d'un aurre dont le savoir
consiruera le ceatre focal, ii) de mnieux rnobiliser Ies ressources de l'Etat en faveur dz
.'Education cn portant la part du secteur 6ducarif dans le budget national de 14% a 25% au termc
de la dxcnn2ie, iii) dea pnvilegier l'approche panicipative fondec suT ['irnplication des
zollectivitjs locales, ces parents d'dlevess. des ONO , du aecteur privc et des acteurs du sysieme
Les priorit6s et les objecrifs sectoriels se prcsenteat comme suit:
~ = ><57 <' EB htt /J.eur.di - Fcx:. (2S31 35 42 34 (*-)-*>~( 



rnne, 1 2
Page 2 of3
I.rincipale innovation de la nouvclie Loi d'Orientation, I'enseigement
fordamerintai de nruf anndes obiigatoire et grawuit cons-itue Ic socle du systemc 6ducarif . C'esc la
?rec;Xre pnoritc de V'Etat et il va &cre developpe pour apporter une r6pon.sc aux bSsains
o&. caTifs essentiels de toutcs les couclies sociales afin d'a.ider celles-ci A contshuer ecfce tenr
a  devclopperrcnt dconomique e; social du pays. Cet effort aura un impact de;eriminant sur le
taux de scolarisation qui va doubler en 10 aws pour ateindrc la scolaritc universelle au niveau
pr..aire en 2010. Daas cctte perspective. un acccnt paxticulier sera mis sur la scolarisaaon des
d1les qui connattra egalenernt des progres substantiels. Pour soutenir cettc vastv cxteasion de la
scolarisation, ou utn accent particulieT sera mis sur la scolarisation des filles, un minimum de 32
sernanies effectives de cours par an sera assure a i'cnsemble des eleves et pour dinmnuer le ccakL
des investisseTnents, ies sailes de cla.sscs scront utilisees au maximum.
Dans le souci de reriforcer la credibilitn  de 1'Ensciggierreni  Technique et
Profession-nel, qui est la deuxieme priorit6, l'Etat S'engage a prendre des dispositions suivantes:
i) ia resiracturation ae 'ET? er. cri:anr des filicres adapLUes a I'cnvironnemcnt et aux besoins du
rnonde du travail, ii) le recyclaze des enseignants en rnettant en place des modules de fornnaion
contin.ue appropriee, iii) la g6ndralisation des stages d'entreprise pendant la forration dcs elves
afin de. ceer un cadre d'echange et d& partenariat entre les eleves et le r   professionnel, el
wi) ia czeation d'un observaLoire de 1'emnploi pour aider les jeunes a disposer cCinformations str
les opporunait6s qu'offie le marche du travail
Trois,mrne priorite, l'enseigncmert supericur va connaitre '.mn d&,eloppement
progressif Ainsi, des la recmre- 2000/2001, arLnee d'ouvenure du P?le Universitaize, 65O
d-udianrts som axtendus. Conformnemcnt aux mesures arretees par le 0ouvernoment. los boursds
locales sont supprimees et le oiomnbre d'6tudiants boursiers a ['etranger, doint Ie cout es.
actueilerneent exorbitanr, va dimninucr progressivemenL De 936 erudiants boursiers er. 1999/00,
On passera A moi.ns de 200 en 2010. Les economies realisees dans le cadre de cette nouveilo
poiitique vont etrc reparties entre i'enseignement foridamental et l'enscignerment .echnique ot
professionnel. Par ailleurs. l'accent sera mis sur l'utilisation des nouvciles technologies de
i'information et de la communication ( NTiTC ) afin de permettre aux universitaires et aut.es
utalisateurs d'avoir acc&s a tous les avantages qu ofEent ces nouvelles technologics.
En maniere d'ernseignement secoindaire gdnCrai, I'accenE sera rnis particuiirement
su- le renforcement de la qualit6 avec la mise en place d'uae v6ritable politique de formation des
enisci gtants sur le plan initial et continu.
L'enseignement de I'arabe va etre renforce en vue de lui permnee ae jouer
pieinc.mernt ie rolc qui lui revieM  dans un pays de culture arabo-islamiquc. A cet cffet, les
dispositions suivantes seront prises. iitroductior, de la langue arabe A ?arLir de la 3 annde, ii)
rdam6nagemeznt des proamrnmcs et des horaires d'enseignement A - to,Ls Les niveaux iii)
inTroduction de 1'enscignenent en arabe i travers certaiics disciplines i-v    a    d'une
inspec-.ion de la langue arabe er v) r6glementadon et encadreiricit de I'enmcignerenm prive en
iLangui arabe.
En vue de favoriser l'essor de l'enseignement priv6, 1'Etat: iv ,implificra les
Proceisures d'ouvermue des ecoles privees, ii) accordera des subventions sur la base dc crizeres
Objcczifs et transparcnts, iii) rernorcera la supervision et le cortrdle de.^ -czies prives par ies
'n`sp-ctours ot les conseillers p6dagogiques, iv) p=nettra aux en]scignants du prive de partciper
aux sessions de recyclage au mndme Eitre que Icurs colltgues du public, et, enf3- v) procedera a
T"iarmonisation et a l'icit6 des prograrmes. Sur 'Le planl quantitat:f, las cfectizfs dc
Ienseignement primaire privc devraient passer de 3 500 en 2001 a 13 000 s 2010. soit un taux
d accroissement amnuel moycn de 37%. Dans la im.ere pAriod-. lcs effectifs des COllgees privcs
vouLt passer de 1 600 A 7 000.
2



Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
En rnatiere d'Alphabeiisation et d'Educarion non forTnelle, le Gouveracment
avant znesure l'importance de l'eradication de l analphabttisme s'cst fixd pour objeciif dd
d.veliopper une vision eIargic de la politique de lutte .ontre l azalphabetisrne. A cet :ffCe, il sera
Im.s en place un vaste programme d'alphab4tisation en direction des non scolarisds et des
analphabcees ou aeo-analphabetes. Ces programmes cibleront en priorite ICs jeunes files oa .es
Iettrnes agees de 1 ai 45 aas.
Lls principales actions a mener en vue d'arneliorer la qualite de P'enseigem.ext et
des apprentissages passent par la motivation, la formation et lc renforcement des com?pteaces
des personnels, la rdacnialisation Ct I'adaptation des conterus et strategies d'enseigmnenm et de
formnation ainsi que La productica de manuels et de rnattriels didactiques adaptes aux nouveaux
curricula. Dc Demanire operanonclie, les actions suivantes seront entreprises: i) I'amdnloration
de la reg-ularite des salaires des enseignants, ii) la renovation des programmes d'eseigrnment,
iii) la revalorisaLion de I'Education Physique et Sportive, iv) l'elaboration d'une rouvellc
politiquc editoriale, v) le renforcemaent des comp6tences des enseignants et vi) 1'6va.Uaton
systymatique des apprentissages.
Les faiblesses idertifl6es dans les dornaines des capacites iiwstirutiornelles e;
oper3atonnelles seront corrig,es par: i) le renforcement de La dtconceatration e. da la
d6cerinallsation avec la creation au niveau national d'un Comite Supdrieur d: L'Education
(C.S.E), au sein da ch.aque district. d'un Comite R.egional de l'Educarion (C.R.E, et ecin, dans
caaque ecole d'un Comite de Gestion de l'Etablissement (CGE), ii) p'am6inoratiolI des C=acitcs
d'organisation, de pianification, de gestian et d6valuadon du systeme educatf, et i;i) le
renforcemcnt des capacites op6rationnelles d'administratioa, d'inspection et dz su?ervisan des
cnsei-9nements.
L e MinistFrt de I'Education Nationale sera profondemnent reorganise en donnanr
plus de pouvoirs et de respoasabilites aux etablissemrents, ea focalisant sa mission sur le pol5-
pedagogique ct cnfin, en resporLsabilisant les agents et les structures charoes d'cx6c-.ter les
tiches qui leur sont devolues. Ces mesures se-ont accompagees d'une dotation coasequenre en
M..oyens humains et logistiques.
Enftn, Le Comite d'Organisation et de Suivi des Etats G6n6raux qui a conauir le
processus depuis la preparation des ctats Gendrauix jusquu'i la Table Ronde Se-torielie
d'Octobre 2000, sera restrucnird et rentorc6 pour qu'il puisse piloter certe vaszz -eforme Ci
s;ivre Ia raise en cuvre du Plan d'Action 2001 -2005.
La dynarnique  en place dans le pays pour la renovation et la rebrmce dc
e'6ducatior, la nise en xuvre des mesures ci-dessus. ainsi que le soutien de la communaute des
bailleurs, assureroat que d'ici la fLn de cette ddcennie tous ,es enfants djiboutiens bcin.,flcieront
d' uLe oducation de meileure qualie, utile et constructive.
le vous remercie de vctre soutic2 et vous prie de recevoir, Monsieur le Vice
Pr6sidcnt, l'assurance de ma haute considerarion.
Le         adtu    t         onaic
RA EM ABSMEH






IBI 23069
.42'30                                                       4300                                       REPUBl:
ERIT                           REPUBLIC                                                                                                                                                            O
ERI    %                 OF                   \,                                                                                                ,/lt                      'F YEMEN 
, ' \ ~~YEMEN ,,o..4
YEMEN                              K   \ERITREA                                                          \/            X                  ,IME
.UT
ETHIOPIA n                                     2at;                                            \80-2g fvr
SOMALIA                _                                           \,  ;                                                                                      S   i :
This MaP Isoo prepfared                                               -..                                     x         dE 
h~the  Mopddnit. of        4}1000'j                                                                                                                         Ooo( sIs            l,  '
The boundories, colors,
der nmintlon-  and any                                                                    3-
other information shown
on this mop  do  oat                                    /                                                                   -
i"ply, an  herpartcof 
The Worl  SakGop,
any udgioco on the l.ega1*
stotus   of ay territory, 
or any  endoroe`"enur 
or acceptance of such ,,,3)lfid   +<R)
boundaries.
ETHIOPI IA!:
5,                                                                                                                                  ,   7< SO AI                    -       lnprne  Eat  od
\ S3                        PLiN                                                                                       -i +.Dt I p{:  
GRAND _ f _</i ~~~~DJIBOU[TI
t        t8\   / <    T                                 p~~~~~~~~~ Wenr;;g                 /  \          > t/ ~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA              _   Improvec Earth R.ods
^  t   \  FLtA W O               Lh    X       }                 j            laoh                X        ff     \    ff                                 -       Main Tracks (Nationl)
PX                                        A_              // Elevations in Meters   (     s        : UJ  *
I--,' . ~          (Simplified Contoars)   l                                                              Other Tcks    1100
, -                                                                 Greaterth-n 1,000                      7                                    -j -  Roilroaod
ETHIOPIA                             8000  1000                               0      Selected Villgsond Towns       *    InbrntionolAipor
600 - 800                                                                    +       A,fields and Ainsnp
400 - 600                                     Distrid Copitols
KCoEtrTS 5          10         20         30          0          50                                                                    (I     National Capitals
I                               ,                               | r s 200- 400                                                                     Seasonsl Rivers (Wodis)
__ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _                                                                            Dstricd    Boundaries
s.Ls                  'IO               20                30                              0 - 200                                         DIstrict B..nd.,ies                  SIrt Flat
---  Inter..tiarot Boundaries
.12i7n  Spot Elevobns in Mdets                                                            *    Driekinij Water
42000'                                                       42030                                                        400
DECEMBER 1996



