Report No. PID9236
Project Name                     Djibouti-Djibouti School Access and (@)
Improvement Program
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Primary Education; Secondary Education
Project ID                       DJPE44585
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF DJIBOUTI
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
www.educ.dj
BP 2, Djibouti Ville, Republique de Djibouti
Contact Person: M.Fathi, Directeur
General de l'Education Nationale (MEN)
Tel: +253-35-08-50
Fax: 253-35-18-69
Email: bepe@intnet.dj
Environment Category             B
Date PID Prepared                October 25, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         September 30, 2000
Projected Board Date             January 16, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The main sector issues are:Djibouti's education indicators are among the
lowest in the world with primary gross enrollment rates at 39t in 2000;The
gross enrollment rate in basic education (enseignement fondamental) is
29t (basic education   includes primary and middle school - middle schools
are also referred to as lower secondary);Low participation due to lack of
school places;Gender, regional and income inequities;Poor quality;Poor
system internal efficiency (high rates of repetition and dropout);Poor
teacher motivation due to delayed payment of salaries;A competitive
examination is used to screen out the majority of students at the end of
six years of primary education - well short of the target of Basic
Education for All which the Government supported at the recent conference
in Dakar; andThe curriculum is not adapted to the Djiboutian context, and
is primarily based on the French system - Djibouti students take the
French Baccalaureate Examination at the end of secondary education.The
Government's strategies are:The Government's Plan Directeur has a target
of increasing primary school enrollments to over 90t in ten-years;The Plan
Directeur plans on absorbing all primary school graduates in middle
schools, eventually increasing the overall enrollment rate for basic
education (primary + middle) to 70t in 2010;The Government will increase
the supply of school places by the construction and rehabilitation of
additional classrooms;The Government modified the law to increase the role
of the private sector by expanding the pool of recognized private schools
through assessments, and assistance in meeting Government standards;The
Government will provide incentives to private providers of education
ranging from teacher training to cash support to tax-free status;The new
law provides the legal framework for community participation in school
maintenance through school management committees (which includes parents,



teachers and administrators (at the higher levels students will also
participate in these committees)). Better provision of education materials
and developing a curriculum more suited to Djibouti's needs; andThe
Government has decided to maintain double shifting to ensure the efficient
use of the existing facilities.The Government aims to control the increase
in recurrent costs that would result from these reforms by: (a) decreasing
scholarship costs for higher education; and (b) increasing system
efficiency by reducing repetition and drop-out rates.     Unit costs for
higher education will be lowered by educating students in Djibouti for the
first two years of a four-year program through the use of distance
learning. Efficiency will be improved by eliminating the examination at
the end of the primary cycle and replacing it with an assessment of
learning outcomes. There is strong support in the Government for
increasing resources for education, and the Government made a commitment
to increase education's share of budget from 16t in 2001-02 to 25t in
2009-10. One of the reasons for choosing an APL with a ten-year
perspective is that education budget shortages will continue to be a
constraint in the next few years. Over this period, Government
expenditures in non-priority areas will be brought under control and
government expenditures on education can be expected to increase
significantly. Despite the manageability in the long-run, the short-run
prospects on the budget are more challenging and donors will need to
finance some recurrent costs. The proposed APL will be implemented in
three phases with distinct triggers (see Section B. 4). As a result, a
10-year projection of enrollments and education costs has been developed
(which is the overall framework for the APL), and a detailed five year
plan and project proposals has been prepared (which is the framework for
the first phase of the APL).
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to increase access to a relevant quality
basic education (Grades 1 to 9) and to reduce gender gaps in enrollment
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
IDA has been supporting the national consensus building process through
the National Education Forum. The proposed project will help demonstrate
that a consensus building approach that involves all elements of civil
society is effective and produces results. In addition the use of an APL
demonstrates the long-term commitment by IDA to assist the Government in
its strategic goal of reaching full enrollment in basic education.
4. Description
The first phase project supports the first three years of a ten-year
program, designed to improve quality and double enrollment rates in
primary education.    It will therefore address some immediate constraints
and also set a trend for the subsequent stages. The first phase project
supports three components: (a) Increase School Capacity; (b) Improve
quality; and (c) Support Government Capacity to Manage the Sector
Reforms.(a) Increase School Capacity (US$6.2 million): This component
will finance 190 new classrooms of which most will be in existing schools
and rehabilitating 36 out-of-use classrooms, including furniture. These
226 classrooms of which 210 will be in primary schools and the rest in
middle schools will increase the enrollment capacity by over 20,000. The
component will also rehabilitate existing sanitation services, or promote
more efficient and effective sanitation services in a drought-prone
-2 -



country by studying, and if agreeable, implementing VIP toilets. (b)
Improve Quality (US$5.5 million): This component addresses seven basic
elements of quality: (i) teacher training, especially of contractual
teachers; (ii) teacher motivation through gradually improving the
timeliness of salary payment; (iii) payment of contractual teacher
salaries; (iv) training of head teachers in administration, pedagogic
supervision, and improving community relationships; (v) improving the
curriculum and increasing availability of relevant books and education
materials, (vi) increased role of parents and the local community in the
running of schools; and (vii) increasing effective instructional time. (c)
Support Government Capacity to Manage the Sector Reform (US$1.5 million):
Will be addressed by (i) support to the activities of CNOSEGE in its
effort coordinate the reforms and raise resources to support the reform;
(ii) strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Education (Planning
Unit, and the Education Projects Unit) through provision of staff
training, consultants and equipment; and (iii) support for strategic
studies as necessary.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
GOVERNMENT               2.6
IBRD
IDA                      10
OTHER SOURCES
(UNIDENTIFIED)          0.6
Total Project Cost       13.2
6. Implementation
The first phase of the program will be implemented from March 2001 to June
2004. Organization of the MOE Under the guidance of the Minister, the
Ministry of Education (MOE) is headed by the Director General of Education
(DGEN-Directeur General de l'Education Nationale) who is responsible,
among other things, for coordinating all activities including those
financed by donor funding. The recent institutional audit of the Ministry
of Education (MEN- MinistOre de l'Education, de Nationale) showed that it
is over-centralized and generally weak with many key units not working at
full capacity. The DGEN in turn is supported by the Planning Unit which
is responsible for preparing statistical reports on the education sector,
conducting surveys, school mapping exercises. The Project Unit
(BEPE-Bureau d'Execution des Projets Education), working under the DGEN,
is responsible for the procurement activities and financial management of
donor-funded projects. The BEPE works in coordination with the Department
of Housing, and Urban Development (DHU-Departement de l'Habitat, de
l'Urbanisme, et de l'Amenagement du Territoire), for school construction
activities. The selection of sites, and the preparation of architectural
plans and bidding documents are carried out by BEPE and cleared with DHU.
DHU approves and is responsible for supervising works with BEPE
collaboration. Project Management, Coordination, and MonitoringThe
project is an integral part of the Government's action plan which came out
of the Etats-Generaux and which will be monitored by the CNOSEGE and its
secretariat (Executive Committee) working under the Minister. The
Executive Committee is comprised of the Chief of the Planning Unit, the
BEPE, the directors of primary and secondary education, the CRIPEN, the
center for teacher training - CFPEN (Centre de formation professionnelle
de l'enseignement nationale), representatives from the Ministry of
- 3 -



Finance, and vocational training ministry. The Committee will meet on a
quarterly basis for the first year of the project, and subsequently
meeting every six months. In addition, the Committee will meet every six
months when the project activities are being planned and the budget is
being developed. The Secretariat of CNOSEGE will be responsible for
resource mobilization, strategic planning, donor coordination, etc. and
the Technical Committee, who translates the reform activities into
implementable actions, will coordinate closely with the Director General
for National Education (DGEN) who is responsible for execution of all
activities in the Ministry and will manage the execution of the project
with help from the BEPE. The DGEN will develop the annual operations
plan, with input from the other units of the Ministry, and will monitor
project progress (see below). The BEPE will be responsible for (a) all
procurement activities; (b) project financial management; (c) producing
project management reports; and (d) producing quarterly progress reports.
The BEPE currently has 12 staff including a Project Coordinator, an
Accountant, an Architect, and Engineer, a Procurement Officer and other
support staff.In order to respond to the urgency of building additional
classrooms for the first year, the BEPE will sub-contract part of the
construction of schools to the Djiboutian Executing Agency for Works of
Public Interest - Agence Djiboutienne d'Execution des Travaux d'Interot
Public (ADETIP) through a contract signed with the Ministry of Education.
The contract will stipulate the objectives of the project (first phase),
delegation of responsibilities, nature of works to be undertaken,
financial arrangements, accounting responsibilities, and obligations of
the respective agencies.Project's Financial Management ArrangementsAn
assessment of the financial management capacity of the executing agency
BEPE took place during appraisal. Given that this is the first education
project to be financed by IDA in Djibouti after a hiatus of five years,
disbursements will be based on traditional methods of Statement of
Expenditures, Special Account replenishment, and direct payment. Project
management reports (PMRs) will only be used as a reporting mechanism and
not for disbursement purposes. The assessment of financial management
systems of BEPE and the consulting firm ADETIP showed that these meet
IDA's OP/BP 10.02 requirements. BEPE's current financial management
structure is considered to be adequate in general, and a relatively
satisfactory internal control system is in place, and the agency is
staffed with capable personnel, and has acceptable auditing arrangements.
For increased efficiency, some improvements to the BEPE financial
management system are proposed and agreed upon with the IDA team. The
current project management capacity of the BEPE will be strengthened by
the acquisition and implementation of an adequate software compatible with
that of the software used by the consulting firm (ADETIP) in charge of
half of the first year's school construction. In addition, the design and
preparation of financial and administrative procedures including the
various working and reporting relationships between the BEPE and the
consultant will be developed and implemented. The main recommendations
contained in the action plan are: the implementation of a management
information system compatible with that of the ADETIP, and the design and
preparation of two procedures manuals, one for BEPE internal use and one
for use between BEPE and ADETIP.The BEPE will prepare and communicate to
IDA quarterly Project Management Reports (PMRs). These will be used for
reporting purposes only. They will include: progress against project
implementation indicators; a summary of sources and uses of funds; a
summary of procurement status; and a proposed work program for the next
- 4 -



six months including the necessary budget allocations. Monitoring and
EvaluationMonitoring will be done according to the development indicators
given in the attachment to Annex 1. The project will strengthen the
capacity of CNOSEGE, and the Planning Unit of the Ministry so that
monitoring reports on the implementation of the reform can include key
progress and impact indicators. Currently the Planning unit generates
statistical data on all aspects of the education sector, however this can
be further strengthened to monitor progress on key reform objectives such
access, equity and quality. In addition, during the donors round-table
UNESCO offered support to develop an Education Management Information
System (EMIS). If this is not in place by the end of Phase I of the APL,
this would be a priority item for Phase II.Evaluation of the impact of the
reforms will be done by CNOSEGE by recruiting experts in the area and will
be done at the end of Phase I (December 2002). Particular areas of impact
assessment will be student performance and success in reaching out to
disadvantaged groups. Normally, student performance would be measured by
overall test results but as the pool of students widens to include
students from less advantaged socioeconomic groups, there will be a
downward pressure on test scores.    The Planning Unit of the Ministry will
be strengthened to monitor progress in reaching to disadvantaged groups
and test scores of students by socioeconomic background. Staff will carry
out a random survey (5t to 10t sample) of students by socioeconomic
background in 2001 to establish a baseline. To keep the survey simple, the
socioeconomic background questions will be limited to easily identified
categories such as day-laborer, civil servant, shopkeeper etc.. The survey
will be repeated in 2005 and 2010.
7. Sustainability
Overall, Djibouti faces a problem paying teacher and other public servant
salaries. However, from an economic point of view, the project is a high
priority for the development needs of Djibouti - development cannot be
sustained in a country with a 39t gross enrollment rate in primary
education. Djibouti's only resource is its people and the quality of
human capital needs to be improved. An increasing source of earnings for
Djibouti is remittances sent by Djiboutians working abroad, and in order
to continue to benefit from this, Djibouti needs to improve the skill base
of its population. Inequities are high both by income group and by
gender. The project will try to address equity problems by financing
schools in poorer areas of Djibouti-Ville and in rural areas as well
running sensibilization programs.    There is still a risk that the poorest
will stay out school. The Government has developed a ten-year strategy to
reach full primary enrollment. There is significant donor interest in
financing the investment costs and some donors are also interested in
financing recurrent costs to give the Government time to reorient its own
expenditures to priority areas such as education. The overall public
finance issues are currently being addressed through an IMF facility and
IDA plans to undertake a structural adjustment program. A key element of
the policy matrix under discussion for an IDA structural adjustment is a
sufficient increase in allocation to the social sectors, particularly the
education sector. The strong level of support for education at the
highest levels of Government is likely to assure that adequate budget
resources are found for education sector.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The Implementation Completion Reports (ICR) of the two IDA supported
- 5 -



Education Projects were positive in terms of competitiveness in the
construction sector, simplifications in the architectural and technical
designs of schools, promotion of community maintenance, and good
performance of the BEPE after training and capacity building. The ICRs
reported that insufficient attention was paid to institutional aspects of
the project, mechanisms for monitoring and evaluation, the Borrower's
execution due to lack of experience, and compounded by centralized
administrative procedures. In addition, IDA supervision was of short
duration and inadequate, and did not fully focus on the qualitative
aspects of the project.The project will maintain or further improve the
positive aspects described above, by revising architectural designs for
their suitability to country conditions (a design which provides
sufficient lighting, air flow, use of local materials where available...)
strengthening of the BEPE's management tools, sequencing core training
with project execution, speeding up delivery of works by sub-contracting
part of the classroom construction to an outside agency (ADETIP). With
regards to the purchase of textbooks, experience will be sought from other
francophone countries towards opening up the market and supplying schools
with good quality textbooks.In addition, seven studies were planned and/or
carried out under the financing of a Norwegian grant towards the
preparation of the present project and were only recently completed and
are being reviewed by the Government. These were:1. The Institutional
Audit of the MOE (completed);2. Feasibility of local development and
production of textbooks (completed);3. Cost and Financing of Education
(completed);4. Factors affecting teacher motivation (completed);5.
Employment of technical school graduates (completed);6. Factors affecting
primary school achievement (completed);7. Role of the private sector
(recently underway);8. Role of Community Participation (was not
undertaken).Study #1 (Audit of the MOE) made several recommendations
regarding the reorganization of the MOE and delegating some of the
decision making processes to the districts. Study #2 (Textbooks)
underlined the lack of textbooks and their inadequacy to the local
environment, and made remedial recommendations as far as privatizing the
production of textbooks. Study #3 (Financing) recommended budget
decentralization among other things. Study #4 (Teacher motivation)
outlined the serious impact on motivation by lack of or delays in teacher
payments and inputs which would motivate teacher performance through
access to guides and textbooks, school equipment, less classroom crowding,
and training. Study #5 ( Technical school graduates) dealt with the fact
that one out of 5 graduates finds gainful employment. Study #6 (Primary
school achievement) highlighted the lack of availability of textbooks for
home use, the economic status of each family, the penalties imposed upon
repeater, and speaking the language of instruction within the home. Study
#7 (Role of private sector) was signed in October 2000 and is presently
being undertaken. Study #8 (Community participation) was not undertaken
due to the selection process of the consultants concerned, and is still
pending.Once the government has been able to review the studies, the
summary of the recommendations retained will be included in the project's
Project Implementation Plan (PIP).
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        Of the three main project components (Improving
Access, Creating the conditions necessary for quality improvement, and
- 6 -



Supporting the Government capacity to manage the sector), only the first
component should entail the following significant environmental impact.
The main issues are lack of sanitation blocks, use of inappropriate
material in the construction/rehabilitation process, and lack of water.
Several pilot activities have taken place to involve parent associations,
and/or community participation in the maintenance of buildings, but these
have not been very successful as communities are also going through
economic hardships. The project will look into an O&M strategy and the
cost implications of such a strategy. In addition, the MOE will need to
develop a sanitation strategy, what types of systems to use in a
drought-prone country, and how to implement and maintain the system. The
project will benefit from world-wide experience in this regard, and will
work with the Department of the Environment to develop a cost-effective
system.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Qaiser M. Khan
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending October
27, 2000.
-7-



