                Document of
             The World Bank




                                       Report No: 29355-DJI

  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
           (IDA-34450 PPFI-Q2470)

                   ON A

                  CREDIT

    IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.8 MILLION
      (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                  TO THE

          REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI

        FOR A FIRST PHASE OF THE

SCHOOL ACCESS AND IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM




              December 21, 2005

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective December 2000)

                               Currency Unit = Djiboutian Francs
                                     DJF 175 = US$ 1.00
                                     US$ 0.57 = DJF 100
                                       SDR 1 = US$1.29
                                       SDR 1 = DJF 226


                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1     December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS


AFD      French Development Agency (Agence Française de Développement)

APL      Adaptable Program Loan

BEPE     Implementation Unit for Education Projects (Bureau d'Exécution des Projets Education)

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy

CFPEN    Personnel Training Center for National Education (Centre de Formation des Personnels
         de l'Enseignement National)

CRIPEN   National Education Research and Information Production Center (Centre de Recherche,
         d'Information, et de Production pour l'Education Nationale)

EFA/FTI  Education for All - Fast Track Initiative

GDP      Gross Domestic Product

GER      Gross Enrollment Rate

IDA      International Development Association

JICA     Japan International Cooperation Agency

MOE      Ministry of Education

PPF      Project Preparation Facility

USAID    United States Agency for International Development




                              Vice President:     Christiaan Poortman
                            Country Director      Emmanuel Mbi
                    Sector Director/Manager       Michal Rutkowski/Regina Bendokat
                          Task Team Leader        Ousmane Diagana

                                          DJIBOUTI
                     Djibouti School Access and Improvement Program


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower Report                                                         24

Project ID: P044585                                                  Project Name: Djibouti School Access and Improvement
                                                                     Program
Team Leader: Ousmane Diagana                                         TL Unit: MNSHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Djibouti School Access and Improvement                   L/C/TF Number: IDA-34450; PPFI-Q2470
                            Program
   Country/Department: DJIBOUTI                                                           Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Primary education (58%); Central government administration
                            (37%); Tertiary education (5%)
                  Theme: Education for all (P); Gender (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Participation and civic engagement (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/14/2000                                     Effective: 04/20/2001                04/20/2001
     Appraisal: 09/30/2000                                         MTR: 06/20/2003                  06/01/2003
      Approval: 12/19/2000                                      Closing: 06/30/2005                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF DJIBOUTI/MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION
                      Other Partners:      French Cooperation, French Development Agency, African Development Bank,
                                           Arab and Saudi Funds, USAID , Japan International Cooperation Agency.

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder K. Sud
Sector Director:                Michal Rutkowski                               Jacques F. Baudouy
Team Leader at ICR:             Ousmane Diagana                                Qaiser M. Khan
ICR Primary Author:             Dung-Kim Pham


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The Republic of Djibouti is a small state of 761,000 inhabitants, strategically located in the Horn of Africa,
surrounded by Ethiopia, Somalia, Eritrea and the Red Sea. The country has very few natural resources; its
principal economic asset is its port. The country's economy is service-centered, relying on the revenues
coming from the port activities and services provided to expatriates and military personnel. In addition, the
economy is heavily dependent on foreign assistance. Because of this structural weakness, the country's
macroeconomic environment is volatile.

In the early 1990s, Djibouti's economic performance declined significantly due to a combination of shocks:
inflow of refugees from Somalia and Ethiopia, internal armed conflict (1991-1994), sharp decline in foreign
assistance and increased competition from Eritrea in providing transport services. This led to a drastic
drop in living standards and a severe deterioration of social services. To reverse these serious economic
and social challenges, the Government started implementing a structural reform program and taking steps
to improve its education system.

In 1999, in close partnership with the Ministry of Education (MOE), the Government decided to overhaul
the country's education system. It embarked on a fundamental review of the system that led to a National
Education Forum (Etats généraux de l'Education). The Forum, organized in a participatory manner,
brought together governmental constituencies at all levels, development partners and all elements of civil
society who had a stake in education issues. Confronted with an education system plagued with extremely
low enrollments (39% gross enrollment rate in primary education, one of the lowest in the world), internal
and external inefficiencies, gender and socio-economic inequities, high unit costs and a skewed expenditure
structure toward teacher wages, the Forum set out an ambitious reform program aiming to develop an
education system that is efficient, financially viable and responsive to the country's development needs. As
a result of the Forum, a new Education Law was promulgated in 2000.                 In addition, a Ten-Year
Perspective Plan (2001-2010) to implement the reforms was prepared and presented during a Donor Round
Table for endorsement.

Against this background, the International Development Association (IDA) endorsed the Government's
reform program and agreed to support its implementation through an adaptable program lending (APL)
comprising three phases. The project, constituting Phase I of the APL, aimed to enhance the quality of
education and to increase enrollment in primary schools. The project was the first IDA project to
support the sector since 1990.

The project objective reflected the priorities of the MOE as they were expressed in the Ten-Year
Perspective Plan, which pointed to the needs of increasing capacity and quality at the primary level. The
objective was modest, yet strategic in that it recognized the complex nature of the endeavor --an ambitious
program managed by a ministry with weak capacity-- and therefore the project chose to focus on the
interventions that were easier to implement and that would produce tangible results during Phase I.
Achievements of these initial interventions together with the experiences learned will pave the way for the
implementation of the reform's longer-term agenda in Phase II and III that aims to further increase access
to basic education, in an equitable way (with a special focus on gender and children with special needs);
improve the quality of education and the efficiency of the system; and promote stronger partnership in the
delivery of education.

The project objective was also consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time
(21414-DJI, February 8, 2001) which directed one of its main pillars to human development and poverty



                                                      - 2 -

alleviation with the aim of quickly "reversing the extremely low enrollment rate" in primary education.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The project objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The project has three components: (i) Improve Access; (ii) Improve Quality; and (iii) Support Government
Capacity to Manage the Sector Reform.

Component 1 ­ Improve Access (US$5.8 million): this component would finance the construction and
equipping of 190 new classrooms and the renovation of 36 out-of-use classrooms.                  Out of these
classrooms, 210 would be in primary schools and the rest in middle schools. It would also rehabilitate
existing sanitation facilities and promote more efficient ones that would be adaptable to the environment.

Component 2 ­ Improve Quality (US$1.1 million): this component would address the following elements
of quality:   (i) teacher training; (ii) teacher motivation through timeliness of salary payments; (iii)
recruitment and training of additional contractual teachers; (iv) training of head teachers in administration,
pedagogic supervision, and community relations; (v) revising the curriculum and development of relevant
textbooks and education materials; (vi) participation of parents and local communities in the running of
schools; and (vii) increasing effective instructional time.

Component 3 ­ Support Government Capacity to Manage the Sector Reform (US$4.1 million): this
component would (i) support the National Reform Steering Committee (CNOSEGE, Comité National
d'Organisation et de Suivi des Etats Généraux de l'Education) in its effort to coordinate the reforms and
raise resources to support the reform; (ii) strengthen the capacity of the MOE; and (iii) support the carrying
out of strategic studies.

The components clearly supported the objective of the project, concentrating on the key elements of
physical expansion at the primary level and on quality improvement, both crucial for increased enrollments
and retention. The inclusion of financing of the contractual teachers salaries in Component 2 was tactical
and responded to the country's economic condition of the time. This measure intended to ease the burden
on the budget which was precarious, and at the same time made available teachers that are essential to the
expansion of the system.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised during implementation.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at entry is rated satisfactory using the five criteria for quality at entry. The project benefited from
an "on demand" upstream review by QAG in July 2000, which did not provide a formal rating. The review
made comprehensive recommendations on the lending instrument, the scope of the project and key policy
areas to address for achieving the longer-term objectives. These recommendations were incorporated in the
project design.

Consistency with country strategy. The project was clearly in line with the country's strategy, having been
conceived as an integral part of the Government's Ten-Year Perspective Plan whose main focus was to
increase access to primary schools and strengthen quality. The project also responded to the Bank's CAS
which aimed for a quick expansion of the extremely low enrollment in primary schools.




                                                       - 3 -

Project design. The design was comprehensive. It was based on the analysis of an in-depth study of the
sector as well as on the results of a series of background studies examining issues of access, quality and
financing (financed by a Norwegian grant, TF 021432) and a number of country economic reviews. In
light of the country's precarious macroeconomic environment and the MOE's weak capacity, the design
was sound with a focus on the immediate needs of the sector: increasing access and addressing the basic
elements of a quality education. In addition, the choice of an APL to finance the project was clearly
appropriate. It offered flexibility in the implementation of the reforms, starting with less complex reforms
under Phase I while IDA and the Government deepened their dialogue on sectoral policy issues. The more
complex policy elements will then be addressed in the following phases of the APL.

The triggers established for the passage of the project from Phase I to Phase II were well thought-out. The
majority of them were of a "policy" nature, all aiming to lead the project toward achieving the longer-term
objectives of the Government's reform program for a basic education system of improving quality, in a
financially sustainable manner.      It might be argued that the number of triggers could be reduced,
eliminating a couple of triggers that were "output-oriented" (preparation of an action plan to increase
school enrollments among girls and children from poor families) and repetitive (community participation in
school management).

Participation and dialogue during preparation. The participatory approach used by the Government was
exemplary and helped advance the achievements in the sector. Before and during the National Education
Forum, the Government consulted with key stakeholders (government officials, members of parliament,
teachers, parents, and civil society at large, including NGOs), and succeeded in mobilizing a strong
commitment to its reform program. The consultation process was also extended to the donor community,
including IDA, which was involved in the planning and the follow-up activities of the Forum.

Project preparedness for implementation.            The project was in a good state of readiness for
implementation. It became effective in a timely manner (two months after signature) and implementation
started upon effectiveness, aided by the following: a thorough project implementation plan; pre-approved
school sites for construction and rehabilitation; the readiness of bidding documents for civil works and
equipment; and an advanced contracting process for the establishment of the financial management system.
The highly satisfactory state of project preparedness was also facilitated by a Project Preparation Facility
(PPF) that allowed for, among other activities, the hiring of the key personnel in the CNOSEGE, the
executive committee responsible for monitoring the reform program.

Project risk evaluation and indicators. The project identified the risks in an exhaustive manner. In light
of the volatility of Djibouti's macro-economic conditions and the weak implementation capacity of the
MOE to assume a complex reform program, the project rightfully rated the overall risk as "substantial".
The project also established a list of pertinent indicators to measure access and quality although the
significance of a number of them could have been strengthened with base and target values.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome is rated satisfactory. Overall, the project achieved its objective of increasing enrollment in
primary schools and enhancing the quality of education. On access, the building and renovation of
classrooms including furniture and didactic materials added 9,000 school places, allowing for higher
enrollments. The gross enrollment rate (GER) in primary schools increased from 39% at the start of the
project to 53.8% in 2004/05 (against a target of 55%). On quality, the project laid the foundation for a



                                                      - 4 -

quality educational system. Curriculum reform for grades 1-9 was carried out, with the results tested and
generalized at different grade levels (see Section 4.2). Pre-service and in-service training of teachers,
training of school administrators and the inspection corps have been institutionalized as an integral part of
the school system. A larger number of textbooks were made available to pupils (both in primary and lower
secondary). Design of a sustainable textbook policy was also initiated. As a result, the quality of
education showed signs of improvement through greater internal efficiency. In fact, repetition rates for
primary education decreased from 12.3% in 2001/02 to 9.8% by the end of the project. The completion
rate at the primary level (without repetition) improved greatly, increasing to 53% in 2003/04 from 27% in
2000/01.

Furthermore, the seven triggers established for the passage of the project from Phase I to Phase II of the
APL have largely been achieved, as presented below:

Achievement of the triggers for the passage of the project from Phase I to Phase II
Triggers established:                             Status of achievement:

1. Over 75% of primary schools will have Achieved. A ministerial note was issued
provided 32 weeks of effective schooling.         mandating 32 weeks of effective teaching.
                                                  Teachers' teaching program in all schools has
                                                  been developed to guarantee the 32 weeks of
                                                  teaching. Implementation has been monitored by
                                                  school directors as well as inspectors.
2. At least 16% of Government recurrentAchieved.                At the end of 2004, the share of
expenditures in the previous fiscal year areGovernment recurrent expenditures allocated to
allocated to the education sector.                the education sector reached 23%.
3. Issuing a decree for Law no. 96, dated July 10,Achieved. The decree was issued. A number of
2000 on Education Reform, establishing privatenotable measures to facilitate the participation of
schools, simplifying procedures for recognitionthe private sector include: ease of access to land,
and providing incentives.                         extension of in-service training and supervision to
                                                  private schools.
4. The preparation of an action plan to increaseAchieved. A plan of action has been incorporated
school enrollments among girls and children fromin the MOE 2006/08 Reform Program Action
poor families and from rural areas.               Plan. To cite a few of these actions: (i) provision
                                                  of dormitories for nomadic families, (ii) food
                                                  program, and (iii) equipping schools with latrines.
5. Issuing a decree for Law no. 96, dated July 10,Moved to Phase II. Schools have implemented
2000     on   Education    Reform,    setting   upsome form of community participation on a
community participation in school managementvoluntary basis. IDA and the Government agreed
and operations.                                   to move this measure to Phase II to allow an
                                                  in-depth evaluation of the experiences before
                                                  codifying the policy.
6. Replacing the competitive examination at theAchieved.       The replacement of the competitive
end of the primary cycle by a non-competitiveexam to one of assessment of skills is registered in
assessment.                                       the Education Law and will be applied in the
                                                  2006/07 school year.
7.    Community      participation    in    school See 5. above. In practice, 60 to 70% of schools
management      and    operations   has    become involve the participation of the community or
operational.                                       the families.



                                                    - 5 -

4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1 ­ Improve access (satisfactory)
As the lack of school places constituted the principal constraint to increasing enrollment, the component
financed the construction, rehabilitation and equipping of classrooms. A total of 185 classrooms were
built, of which 160 were for primary education and 25 for lower secondary; and 25 classrooms were
renovated, of which 21 were for primary education. All the classrooms were furnished with tables and
chairs. In addition, 21 sanitary areas, 8 surrounding walls, 2 dormitories and 4 cafeterias were built. The
quality of construction was assessed to be satisfactory. These classrooms contributed to bringing education
to the population that is most in need of schooling by being built or renovated in remote areas and in
populated peri-urban areas. The provision of classrooms and furniture under the component has increased
access by adding 9,000 places.

In addition to increasing access, the project helped reduce the high cost of construction, relatively speaking,
by promoting cost cutting measures, such as competitive bidding techniques and building standards. Prior
to the project, the average unit cost per square meter was in the order of 100,000 FDJ, compared to an
average cost of about 43,000 FDJ under the project.

Component 2 ­ Improve quality (satisfactory)
This component supported key elements of quality improvement, notably: (i) the hiring of contractual
teachers, (ii) the training of teachers and school directors, (iii) the development of new curricula for grades
1 to 9, (iv) the provision of textbooks, and (v) support of the measures to increase effective teaching hours.

Contractual teachers. During a time of weak macroeconomic conditions with budgetary constraints, the
component financed the salaries of 230 contractual teachers to assist the Government in managing its
recurring expenditures. The decision to support the hiring of contractual teachers was strategic and carried
a two-pronged goal: (i) providing the Government with funds to finance the salaries for a specific category
of teachers while the Government restored the budget basis, and (ii) providing teachers to allow the system
to continue its expansion. In parallel, the project supported the CFPEN capacity to increase the number of
the teaching corps (see next paragraph).

Training. The component supported the physical expansion as well as the capacity building of the
CFPEN. It financed the construction and equipping of 10 training rooms resulting in an additional
enrollment of 570 teacher-trainees in 2003/04 and 2004/05. In addition, it provided technical assistance for
the development of a new curriculum for teachers to teach the new curricula for grades 1 to 9. The CFPEN
strengthened its training capacity and was able to provide pre-service training to all the 230 contractual
teachers, in-service training to 450 primary school teachers and school management training to 77 school
directors. The CFPEN was also able to reinforce the teaching corps, with the addition of an average of 160
teachers annually.

Development of new curricula for grades 1 to 9. The component financed long-term technical assistance
to the National Education Research and Information Production Center (CRIPEN, Centre de Recherche,
d'Information, et de Production pour l'Education Nationale) for the development of a new curricula and
the introduction of the competency-based approach whereby learners are the focus of the teaching system.
The new curricula were applied in the first four years of primary and being tested in the fifth year. At the
lower secondary level, they were tested in one school with a plan to apply the new curricula in other schools
in the sixth year, in 2006/07. In addition, the component provided a small printing press and computers,
enabling the CRIPEN to produce teacher guides and other pedagogical materials.



                                                      - 6 -

Provision of textbooks. Considering that the availability of textbooks plays a critical role in enrollment and
in the quality of education, the component financed the acquisition of 99,892 textbooks for French and
Mathematics instruction during 2002/03 and 2003/04, resulting in a theoretical textbook:pupil ratio of 1:1
instead of 1:4. The ICR mission observed that the ratio of 1:1 was not met during the visit to a few
schools. The reasons provided by the director of the schools visited were: (i) there was a significant
increase in enrollments for the school year 2005-06 and (ii) schools have not yet completed their
administrative tasks. (The ICR visits took place in September, at the start of the school year). The MOE
also indicated that stocks of textbooks were damaged by floods. Nevertheless, the MOE followed up on
the issue and was organizing an inventory of textbooks in all the schools in order to ensure that each pupil
has at least a book for French and Mathematics.

Increase in effective teaching hours. This constitutes one of the triggers for the passage of the project
from Phase I to Phase II. In 2002, the MOE issued a ministerial decree revising the school calendar to
guarantee 32 weeks of effective teaching hours. Appropriate design of the teaching program was developed
to guarantee the 32 weeks of teaching. Implementation has been monitored by the school directors, the
inspectors and the pedagogic advisors.

Component 3 ­ Support the Government's capacity to manage the sector reform (satisfactory)
The component supported the capacity building of three units in the MOE through the provision of
technical assistance, equipment, management tools, and renovation of office space, including office
furniture. The three units were: (i) the CSE ("Comité Supérieur de l'Education", formerly known as
CNOSEGE); (ii) the Planning Department; and (iii) the Implementation Unit for Education Projects
(BEPE, "Bureau d'Exécution des Projets Education").

The CSE strengthened its capacity to manage the reform and succeeded in developing a strong relationship
with the donor community in Djibouti over the course of the project. By the end of the project, a local
donor working group was established and met regularly, under the leadership of the MOE, to mobilize
efforts toward improving the sector. Recently, with the local donor group's support, the MOE presented a
proposal with an action plan to the Education for All "Fast Track Initiative" (EFA/FTI) Partnership that
will allow Djibouti to join that Partnership soon. The CSE also guided the reform through a very
satisfactory execution of the project and through a smooth preparation of Phase II of the APL. The
Planning Department reinforced its capacity in data collection and generation of education statistics. Since
2000, it has re-launched the publication of annual statistics with improved features, providing
comprehensive data on the school system (pupils/students, teachers, facilities, etc.). Using these statistics,
the Department has been generating indicators, providing decision makers with information to assess the
state of efficiency of the system. In addition, it conducted studies analyzing the factors promoting the
enrollment of girls and drew a plan of action that has been included in the MOE's Action Plan for 2006/08.
Being a principal actor in the management of the reforms, the Department should broaden the scope of its
work to undertake impact evaluations, particularly of the reform objectives that are related to access, equity
and quality. Concerning the BEPE, equipped with modern management tools and supported by long-term
technical assistance in the areas of school architecture and project management, the BEPE capacity in
monitoring day-to-day operations of the project, including other donor-financed projects, has been
commendable. It tracked project progress regularly and was able to provide useful information for decision
making.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The economic analysis undertaken at the time of appraisal made a case in supporting public finance in
basic education on the public good and the equity rationale. A cost benefit analysis was calculated for the


                                                      - 7 -

ten-year reform program, yielding an internal rate of return of 11%. The benefits were calculated on the
basis of cost containment measures and efficiency gains introduced by the reforms (reduction in the number
of years needed to graduate from primary and lower secondary levels, and reducing the primary cycle from
six to five years).

An internal rate of return is not computed for the ICR. It is too early in the education reform process to
quantify and assign education benefits; there are also serious sectoral data limitations in Djibouti. As
presented below and in Annex 3, the ICR will highlight the benefits deriving from internal efficiency and
cost containment measures together with the risk analysis and an overall economic evaluation.

The project, spanning the first four years of the reform program, brought about important internal
efficiency gains (see Section 4.1). The education system has also been restructured, shortening the primary
cycle by one year (from six to five) and establishing a 9-year basic education cycle. The economic
rationale is further strengthened with the benefits derived from a more efficient teaching system and
measures that reduced the unit cost of classroom construction by more than 50% (see Section 4.2).

Over the implementation period of the project, the country succeeded in preserving macroeconomic stability
as a result of larger-than-expected growth in external revenue and financial support from donors. At the
same time, economic growth picked up in light of increased private sector investment in and management of
basic infrastructure (port, airport and telecom), generating additional fiscal revenue. These additional
resources have been used to support more investment in social sectors (education and health). Budgetary
allocations to education have steadily increased, averaging about 20 percent of total expenditures.
Currently though, the limit for further budget increase may have been reached under the most realistic
scenario. Conscious of such a situation and for sustainability reasons, the Government has envisaged other
cost cutting and revenue measures during Phase II of the APL. On the cost side, envisaged measures seek
greater internal efficiency gains such as better use of classrooms, further reduction in school construction
costs, systematic maintenance of the school infrastructure, and rationalization of human resources use. On
the resource side, a new regulatory framework for an increased participation of the private sector in
education is being finalized.      Moreover, initial results of a greater community participation in the
management and financing (especially maintenance) of elementary schools are promising. Finally, Djibouti
is expected to join the EFA-FTI Partnership soon on the basis of its strong commitment to education and
the presentation of a credible education sector development program to the donor's community. These
steps will most likely help the country mobilize additional technical and financial resources from donors.
All of the initiatives mentioned in this section will not only increase the education sector funding but will
also enhance accountability and thus the quality of the national education system.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Institutional development impact is substantial due to the fact that the project focused on developing the
existing entities of the MOE and employed flexibility in building their capacity. The most notable impact is
as follows: (i) The teaching system became more efficient with better use of the teaching corps. The
revised teaching calendar is now institutionalized so that teaching is done during the cooler months of the
year and 32 weeks of teaching is delivered, thus improved the use of teachers and the pupils' learning. In
addition, the benefits of in-service teacher training are recognized. Continuous upgrading of the teachers'
skills is integrated in the organization of the school system and is provided by the inspectors and the
CFPEN. (ii) The project increased awareness to optimize school construction cost and induced the MOE to
look into various measures to reduce costs. Under the project, these measures were related to architectural



                                                       - 8 -

standards, use of construction materials and bidding techniques; other measures are being studied to further
reduce the costs. (iii) The overall project management system has introduced an enhanced level of
accountability and discipline in the use of project funds and recording of activities. This has resulted in an
institutionalization of project management and analytical skills that will serve in the continuation of the
reform process.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The small size of the domestic market did not favor a strong competitive bidding environment and has kept
costs high. Under the project, this factor had a negative impact on the cost of school construction. Even
though competitive bidding techniques were applied and had somewhat lowered the construction costs, they
remained high compared to other developing countries such as Tanzania, Ethiopia, Gambia and Guinea.
An added factor is that the strategic geo-political position of the country attracted strong interest by the
international community together with financial support.           At times, this support resulted in ad hoc
investments, creating absorptive capacity and cost problems.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
One major factor that impeded implementation was the Government's constant delays in providing
counterpart funding. This contributed to higher project costs and costs related to project monitoring. The
MOE as well as IDA had to deploy additional efforts during implementation to ensure effective payments
to suppliers. Another binding constraint is related to poor demographic data. This impacts on the capacity
of the sector to plan effectively and collect data that are sufficiently reliable to adjust policies as needs
arise.

On the other hand, the following factors positively impacted implementation: (i) The Government's
commitment to develop its human capital in order to sustain the country's long-term economic growth,
which led to increasing budget allocations to the education sector. (ii) A clear vision of the education
sector resulting in a reform program with well-defined policies. (iii) The appointment of a highly
competent group of staff to lead the implementation of the reforms.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project management was efficient and contributed to the successful project implementation. Technical
assistance was effectively used by the various technical departments of the MOE to build capacity and by
the BEPE to acquire modern project management tools, such as computerized financial management and
procurement systems. The financial system was particularly helpful in monitoring payment to suppliers
and disbursements under the Credit. The procurement system could have been used more effectively to
track procurement activities.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the time of appraisal, the total cost of the first phase of the APL was estimated to be US$11 million:
IDA provided a credit in Special Drawing Rigths (SDR), equivalent to US$10 million (91% of the total);
the Government financed US$0.4 million (4%); and other donors financed US$0.6 million (5%). By the
end of the project, the total cost was estimated to be US$11.2 million. The project closed as planned, on
June 30, 2005. Taking into account exchange rate fluctuations, an equivalent of US$10.6 million was
disbursed at the close of the four-month grace period of the credit.

In November 2002 and September 2003, the Credit agreement was amended to revise procurement
procedures and allow for the financing of the renovation of a complex to house the MOE staff. These
amendments were justified and proved to have aided in project execution.



                                                       - 9 -

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of the project is highly likely, with continued Government commitment and donor
support. As indicated in Section 4.2, donor support to help Djibouti achieve its educational objectives is
significant. With donor backing, Dijbouti is positioned to join the EFA/FIT Partnership soon. This, in
turn, will generate further donor commitment, including financing for the education sector.

With the volatility of Djibouti's economic situation, there is a risk of under-funding of the multi-year
reform program. The MOE is well aware of that risk and, while continuing to implement the cost cutting
strategies under the project, it has also introduced further cost-saving measures under Phase II of the APL.
Specifically, the MOE had identified a number of such measures (rationalization and better use of human
resources, further cost optimization of school construction, regular maintenance of schools with community
participation), and had prescribed their implementation in the first year of project execution.

Another element contributing to the sustainability of the project's achievements is the strong commitment of
a large group of national stakeholders, particularly the technical and the pedagogical staff of the MOE who
participated in the development of the reform program and are now committed to its success.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
There is no requirement for transition as the project is an integral part of the national reform program
which is continuing its path of implementation under Phase II of the APL.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
Project preparation is rated satisfactory for all three phases --identification, assistance in preparation, and
appraisal. IDA was responsive to the Government's request for support to its reform program. It
organized a multi-disciplinary team to work in close synergy with the Government during the lending phase,
providing high quality technical assistance in the areas of education planning, financing and management
but also in project management, including implementation and financial aspects. It was instrumental in the
development of the Government's Ten-Year Perspective Plan, providing appropriate input to the Plan that
was drawn from the strategies derived out of the National Education Forum. Furthermore, IDA applied
good judgment in agreeing with the Government on a simple operation, using an APL to gradually build
MOE's capacity and to apply flexibility in implementing an ambitious and complex reform program.

7.2 Supervision:
Project supervision is rated highly satisfactory. The transition of project supervision to another task team
leader (TTL) about six months after effectiveness was well planned and coordinated, with the involvement
of the new TTL during project negotiations and project launch. This enabled the project to follow its course
without interruption. Supervision of the project was undertaken regularly on a six-month basis. It focused
on the project development effectiveness and monitored carefully Government's policies to ensure the
fulfillment of the triggers from Phase I to Phase II. Missions were also dispatched to Djibouti as needed,
from IDA's Country Office in Yemen, to proactively address the problems as they arose, such as the
counterpart funding issue. The supervision missions were composed of a broad mix of international
professionals who were technically competent but also responsive to the client's views and needs. The core
supervision team was maintained throughout project implementation and succeeded in nurturing an
excellent dialogue with its counterparts through trust, flexibility and strong collaboration. Supervision has



                                                      - 10 -

been proven efficient as the MOE's entities involved in the project have gradually strengthened their
capacity. Besides, IDA played a lead role in mobilizing the donor community to support Djibouti's
education sector and used all opportunities to promote donor coordination. The number of donors
providing financing to the education sector increased significantly. At the beginning of the project, the
French Cooperation, the African Development Bank and UNICEF were actively involved. They were then
followed by other donors, notably the Arab and Saudi funds, the French Development Agency, JICA, and
USAID. It was estimated that about US$7.0 million was disbursed by the donor community in support of
Djibouti's education sector.

Supervision documentation was very well kept, with proper filing in the Bank's filing system (IRIS) and
comprehensive project status reports/implementation status reports were prepared on a timely basis,
including the updating of outcome indicators.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
In light of the quality of the Bank's work during lending and supervision, overall Bank performance is rated
satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government performance in preparing the project is rated highly satisfactory. It invested time and
resources to build a broad consensus of its reform program with key national stakeholders and the donor
community. The National Education Forum, in December 1999, was organized in a rational way. The
MOE commissioned seven technical groups to present issues and recommendations on critical facets of the
education sector, ranging from the structure of the system to costs and financing, and partnership with the
private sector and communities. It invited key stakeholders to participate in the Forum and used the
findings and recommendations of the Forum to lay out the sector strategies and objectives in key
documents, notably the new Education Law and the Ten-Year Perspective Plan. The comprehensiveness
and clarity of these documents facilitated the dialogue process and commitment from the donor community.
They also constituted the basis upon which the MOE prepared the project, including a sectoral policy letter
that clearly defined its strategies and financial commitment to the sector.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government implementation performance is rated satisfactory. As stated in Section 5.2, the
Government's commitment to develop its human capital with increasing budgetary allocations to the
education sector was conducive to reaching the project development objective. The high level of
Government commitment throughout implementation was also reflected in the selection and retention of
highly competent project staff. Nevertheless, the Government often failed to provide counterpart funding
for the project on a timely basis, resulting in additional implementation cost of the project.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency performance is rated satisfactory. As stated in Section 5.3, the BEPE was
efficient. The transparency and accountability of project management ensured strong monitoring of project
activities and compliance with disbursement and procurement rules and regulations. The management and
institutional capacity of the BEPE has progressively been strengthened through technical assistance,
training and interaction with IDA supervision staff. The completion of nearly all project activities, six
months ahead of schedule, attests to this good performance.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory, considering the development of well-defined



                                                      - 11 -

strategies for the education sector, the commitment it conferred to the project development objective, and
the performance of the implementing agency.

8. Lessons Learned

1. The commitment of the Djiboutian government and of stakeholders was the leading factor impacting
on the satisfactory outcome of the project.          The consultative process applied during the National
Education Forum was very effective in this regard and has engaged policy makers and key stakeholders in
focusing on reaching the project objective.

2. Donor coordination for a reform program, especially an ambitious one, needs to be systematically
organized using a formal system. The beneficiary government needs to play a leading role. Djibouti's
geo-political situation has led to large in flows of donor assistance, rendering the task of coordination more
complex. A formal system of donor coordination will ensure coherence of policies and prevent ad hoc
reaction to project needs that may result in duplication. Over the course of the project, a structure to
promote effective donor coordination has been developed and will help advance the reform program within
the donor community, with Djibouti expecting to join the EFA/FTI Partnership soon.

3.   A strong and reliable monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system is essential, particularly in
undertaking reforms. Under the project, the system to collect data and generate education statistics has
been strengthened; nevertheless an M&E system to monitor and evaluate the impact of the reforms was
missing. A reliable M&E system is needed as the reform program advances. In order to ensure its utility
and sustainability, the design should be commensurate with the needs and degree of sophistication of the
users.

4. The new Bank policy on expenditure eligibility approved for Djibouti in May 2005 provides flexibility
and reduces transaction costs to both the Government and the Bank in the implementation of
development programs. Under the project, the counterpart funding was one recurring factor impacting
negatively on the implementation and cost of the project (see Section 5.2 and 7.5). Under the new financing
policy parameters, the Government of Djibouti has the flexibility in allocating and managing its resources
in several areas, including overall cost sharing. The Bank, in parallel, has the flexibility to finance
expenditures that are needed to meet the development objectives of the operations it supports, with the
possibility of financing 100% of project costs in the social sectors, including recurrent costs.

5. The adaptable program lending (APL) approach provides the needed flexibility and capacity building
in implementing reform programs. Attainment of the long-term objectives of the Djiboutian government
education reform program cannot be reached in the period covered by a single investment operation. The
APL provides the appropriate setting for IDA and the MOE to strengthen their partnership and gradually
deepen their dialogue on sectoral issues. As the project gets into more complex policy areas during
implementation, it is useful to have an independent evaluation of sectoral achievements in order to assess
the readiness of the project to move to the next phase.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's comments, received on December 21, 2005, commended the Bank for the overall quality of
its report. The Borrower's report is presented in Annex 8.

(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.



                                                     - 12 -

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.

10. Additional Information

none




                                             - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome/Impact Indicators:
            Indicator             Recorded in last ISR             Actual/Latest estimate
Increased number of school      (not recorded)              9,000 additional school places
places                                                      added
GER in primary increase from    50% for school year         GER reached 53.8% for school
39% to 55%                      2003/04                     year 2004/05
Increased availability of       1:1 for French and 1:2 for  99,892 textbooks were purchased,
textbooks                       Mathematics.                leading to a theoretical ratio
                                                            textbook:pupil of 1:1 for French
                                                            and Mathematics.
Trained primary school head     School head teachers        77 school head teachers were
teachers                        trained.                    trained in school management.
Better trained contractual      Contractual teachers        All 230 contractual teachers
teachers                        trained                     received pre-service training and
                                                            in-service training while teaching.

Output indicators:
            Indicator             Recorded in last ISR             Actual/Latest estimate
226 classrooms will be built     219 classrooms were built.  185 classrooms were built and 25
increasing capacity by over                                  renovated, adding 9,000 places.
20,000 based on double shifting                              In addition, 21 sanitary areas, 8
                                                             surrounding walls, 2 boarding
                                                             rooms and 4 cafeterias were built.
                                                             Note: the number of classrooms
                                                             recorded in last ISR included
                                                             classrooms built by the donor
                                                             community.
Number of textbooks per pupil    Ratio is 1:1 for French and With the acquisition of 99,892
increases                        1:2 for Mathematics.        textbooks, the theoretical ratio
                                                             textbook:pupil is 1:1.
Primary school head teachers     100 school head teachers    77 school head teachers were
trained and guidebook for school received training.          trained in school management.
management prepared and                                      Note: the number recorded in the
distributed.                                                 last ISR did not differentiate
                                                             between the number of school head
                                                             teachers being trained and the
                                                             number of training sessions.




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal     Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                           Estimate       Estimate       Appraisal
                      Component                            US$ million   US$ million
Component 1: Improve Access                                   5.80             6.10            105
Component 2: Improve Quality                                  1.10             2.70            245
Component 3: Support the Government's Capacity                4.10             2.40             58

Total Baseline Cost                                          11.00           11.20
 Physical Contingencies                                                        0.00
 Price Contingencies                                                           0.00
                        Total Project Costs                  11.00           11.20
                  Total Financing Required                   11.00           11.20
The cost by component at Appraisal includes contingencies.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                 Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            5.30          0.60          0.00        5.90
                                   (0.00)           (4.90)      (0.50)          (0.00)      (5.40)
2. Goods                            0.80            0.41          0.05          0.00        1.26
                                   (0.76)           (0.30)      (0.04)          (0.00)      (1.10)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          3.41          0.05        3.46
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (3.30)          (0.00)      (3.30)
4. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00          0.30          0.08        0.38
Costs
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.20)          (0.00)      (0.20)
   Total                            0.80            5.71          4.36          0.13        11.00
                                   (0.76)           (5.20)      (4.04)          (0.00)     (10.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                     1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category            ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                                Other
1. Works                            0.00            5.35         0.00           0.00       5.35
                                   (0.00)          (4.89)       (0.00)         (0.00)      (4.89)
2. Goods                            1.22            0.18         0.85           0.00       2.25
                                   (1.15)          (0.17)       (0.81)         (0.00)      (2.13)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00         3.25           0.00       3.25
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (3.25)         (0.00)      (3.25)
4. Incremental Operating            0.00            0.00         0.34           0.00       0.34
Costs
                                   (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.30)         (0.00)      (0.30)
   Total                            1.22            5.53         4.44           0.00       11.19



                                                 - 15 -

                                          (1.15)             (5.06)            (4.36)            (0.00)           (10.57)

    1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

    2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
      of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
      managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                               IDA         Govt.        CoF.         IDA          Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
1. Increase School             5.20         0.05         0.55        5.56         0.03       0.55       106.9     60.0    100.0
Capacity
2. Create the Conditions       1.10         0.00         0.00        2.63         0.00       0.00       239.1     0.0       0.0
for Quality Improvement
3. Support Government          3.70         0.35         0.05        2.38         0.00       0.05       64.3      0.0     100.0
Capacity to Manage Sector
Reforms




                                                          - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

         The adaptable program lending (APL), for which the project constitutes the first phase, was
designed to support the Government's reform program which aimed to universalize basic education and to
develop an education system that is efficient, financially viable and responsive to the country's development
needs. Beyond the global consensus that universal access to basic education is the right of each child,
positive externalities of basic education provide justification for its support with public funds. In addition,
Djibouti's economic future depends heavily on the quality and productivity of its work force as the country
has few other resources. Thus, public funding to improve the work force, starting at the level of basic
education, is also justified on the grounds of improving Djibouti's development potential. Public support
for universal basic education in Djibouti is also justified on the grounds of reducing income and gender
inequities.

         The above justification of public finance to support the APL was made at the time of project
appraisal. A cost benefit analysis was undertaken, yielding an economic internal rate of return of 11%.
The benefits were calculated on the basis of cost containment measures and efficiency gains introduced by
the reforms (reduction in the number of years needed to graduate from primary and lower secondary school,
and shortening the primary cycle from six to five years).

         The ICR supports and reiterates the economic justification spelled out at the time of appraisal.
Phase I of IDA support, spanning over the first four years of the education reform program, brought about
important internal efficiency gains through more favorable repetition and completion rates (see Section
4.1). The education system has also been restructured, shortening the primary cycle by one year (from six
to five) and establishing a 9-year basic education cycle. The economic justification is further strengthened
with the benefits derived from a more efficient teaching system and measures that reduced the unit cost of
classroom construction by more than 50% (see Section 4.2).

         Furthermore and in a global economic context, Djibouti initiated its ambitious reform program
when the fiscal situation was at its worse. The budget deficit was high and increasing due to low revenue
and rapidly increasing expenditures; leading to an accumulation of domestic arrears amounting to 25
percent of GDP. The display of such a strong commitment to education justified the support of both
domestic and external partners. Over the implementation period of phase I, the country succeeded in
preserving macroeconomic stability as a result of larger-than-expected growth in external revenue and
financial support from donors. At the same time, economic growth picked up in light of increased private
sector investment in and management of basic infrastructure (port, airport and telecom), generating
additional fiscal revenue. Available statistics show that these additional resources have been used well to
support more investment in social sectors (education and health) and to reduce substantially the stock of
domestic arrears.

         To fulfill its commitment and strong support to education, the Government has steadily increased
budgetary allocations to the sector, which averaged about 20 percent of total expenditures during the
implementation period of Phase I.       The results, in terms of additional capacity and primary school
enrollment, have been excellent. Currently though, the limit for further budget increase may have been
reached under the most realistic scenario, given that the additional fiscal space was created by budgetary
savings from macroeconomic reforms in areas such as pension funds, privatizations and private
concessions. Conscious of such a situation and for sustainability reasons, the Government has envisaged
other cost cutting and revenue measures during Phase II of the program. On the cost side, envisaged
measures seek greater internal efficiency gains such as better use of classrooms, further reduction in school
construction costs, systematic maintenance of the school infrastructure, and rationalization of human



                                                    - 17 -

resources use.

        On the resource side, a new regulatory framework for an increased participation of the private
sector in education is being finalized. Moreover, initial results of a greater community participation in the
management and financing (especially maintenance) of elementary schools are promising. Finally, Djibouti
is expected to join the EFA-FTI Partnership soon on the basis of its strong commitment to education and
the presentation of a credible education sector development program to the donor's community. These
steps will most likely help the country mobilize additional technical and financial resources from donors.
All these above initiatives will not only increase the education sector funding but they will also enhance
accountability and thus the quality of the national education system.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               3/22/00                   3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
               7/10/00                   1     ENVIRONMENTAL SPEC.
                                               (1)
               9/29/00                   3     TASK TEAM LEADER (1); SR.
                                               OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)

 Supervision

               05/10/2001                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);                S               S
                                               SR.OPERATIONS OFFICER
                                               (1); OPERATIONS ANALYST
                                               (1)
               11/08/2001                 3    TTL (1); OPERATIONS                  S               S
                                               ANALYST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
               05/27/2002                 1    OPERATIONS ANALYST (1)               S               S
               10/13/2002                 3    TTL (1); FINANCIAL MGT.              S               S
                                               SPEC. (1); OPERATIONS
                                               ANALYST (1)
               12/08/2003                 2    TTL (1); OPERATIONS                  S               S
                                               ANALYST (1)
               04/05/2004                 5    TTL (1); OPERATIONS                  S               S
                                               ANALYST (1); ARCHITECT,
                                               MAINT. SPEC (1);
                                               EDUCATION SPEC. (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
               10/15/04                   2    TTL (1); OP. ANALYST (1)             S               S

 ICR
               9/15/05                   2     TTL (1); OP. OFFICE (1)              S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  17                            57
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       15                            56
  Supervision                               108                            190
  ICR                                          8                            22

                                               - 19 -

Total    148         325




           - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document (Report no. 20803-DJI - November 17, 2000)
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) (Credit no. 3445-DJI - January 22, 2001)
Country Assistance Strategy (Report no. 21414-DJI - February 8, 2001)
Education Strategy Note (May 16, 2002)
Public Expenditure Review (November 2004)
Quality Enhancement Review (August 15, 2000)
Project Appraisal Document (Report no. 30239-DJI - October 10, 2005)
Mission Aide mémoires
Project Status Reports/Implementation Status Reports
Project Progress Reports (prepared by the Borrower)
Les Etats Généraux de l'Education - Rapport général (MOE)
La Réforme de l'Ecole - Bilan de réalisations 1999-2004 (MOE)




                                                  - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower Report



                           REPUBLIQUE DE DJIBOUTI


                    MINISTERE DE L'EDUCATION NATIONALE
                      ET DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT SUPERIEUR




 RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D'AMELIORATION ET D'ACCES AUX
                                    ECOLES




                    FINANCE PAR LE CREDIT IDA N° 3445-DJI




                                 OCTOBRE 2005




                                     - 24 -

  RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU PROJET D'AMELIORATION ET D'ACCES AUX
                                              ECOLES
                         FINANCE PAR LE CREDIT IDA N°3445-DJI

1-     RESUME

   Le Projet d'Amélioration et d'Accès aux Ecoles (PAAE) fut identifié et évalué durant l'année
   2000, il a été négocié en novembre 2000 puis est entré en vigueur le 31 Mars 2001 et vient
   d'être clôturé le 30 Juin 2005.
   Le Projet n'a fait l'objet d'aucune demande de prolongation puisque l'essentiel des activités
   prévues furent achevées une année avant la date de clôture et que les objectifs escomptés ont
   été tous atteints.
   Le Projet répondait aux besoins du système éducatif djiboutien identifiés dans un processus de
   réforme basé sur un diagnostic et des recommandations, qui après une série de débats dans les
   écoles, ont été adoptés par un forum national initié par le Président de la République, tenu en
   Octobre 1999 et auquel ont assistés des représentants de toutes les couches de la population et
   de tous les acteurs et partenaires du secteur éducatif.
   Sur ce consensus, les cadres du Ministère, soutenus par une forte volonté politique et avec le
   soutien de la communauté des bailleurs, ont élaborés, durant l'année 2000, les bases d'une
   réforme profonde du système éducatif : une loi d'orientation votée par l'Assemblée Nationale,
   un Schéma Directeur décennal 2001-2010, un Plan d'Action 2001-2005 et une série de projets
   soumis à deux tables rondes de bailleurs de fonds.
   Après avoir constaté que le système actuel ne répondait pas aux attentes de la population (son
   accès était limité avec un taux brut de scolarisation au cycle primaire de 39% et d'importantes
   disparités géographiques et de genre et ses performances étaient médiocres avec des taux
   d'abandon et de redoublement très élevés), les principaux objectifs assignés à la réforme
   étaient :
-      L'extension de l'accès à tous les niveaux du système éducatif avec la priorité à un socle
d'enseignement fondamental obligatoire et gratuit, destiné à tous les enfants de 6 à 16 ans, dont le
contenu sera adapté au contexte culturel et économique national,
-      L'amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement à travers une réforme des curricula, une
formation initiale et continue de tous les enseignants et un développement de relations
partenariales étroites, au niveau des établissements scolaires ;
-      Et un renforcement des capacités institutionnelles et de gestion du Ministère.
   L'appui de la Banque Mondiale à ce programme de réforme était exprimé par un nouvel outil
   d'intervention proposé au gouvernement : un Prêt Programme Evolutif de 30 millions de USD
   sur 10 ans en trois phases, qui devait accompagner le Schéma Directeur Décennal et dont la
   première phase, de 10 millions de USD, que constituait le PAAE, s'intégrait parfaitement à
   cette politique en concentrant ses activités sur le cycle primaire.
   Les trois composantes du PAAE ont été exécutées administrativement et financièrement par le
   Bureau d'Exécution des Projets d'Education du Ministère de l'Education Nationale.
   La 1ère Composante qui visait à rehausser rapidement le taux de scolarisation a permis la
   construction ou la réhabilitation de 210 salles de classe situées essentiellement dans des zones
   où la demande d'éducation était forte et les capacités d'accès limitées. Elle a également permis



                                                - 25 -

    de doter plusieurs écoles de clôtures, de blocs sanitaires, de réfectoires et de dortoirs.
    La 2ème Composante a contribué à l'amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement en
    renforçant les capacités du CFPEN, du CRIPEN et du Service de l'Enseignement de Base par
    :
-        La construction et l'équipement d'une extension de 10 salles de classe au CFPEN ;
-        La formation initiale et continue des enseignants et plus particulièrement des contractuels
et des directeurs d'écoles ;
-        Une assistance technique et des équipements destinés à les appuyer dans la mise en place
de nouveaux curriculums dans l'enseignement fondamental et dans la formation initiale des
instituteurs ;
    Cette composante a également, pris en charge le payement des salaires de 230 instituteurs
    contractuels en vue de soulager les finances publiques qui n'arrivaient pas à payer
    régulièrement les salaires des enseignants et doté les élèves de l'enseignement fondamental de
    manuels scolaires qui faisaient défaut.
    La 3ème Composante a accompagné le gouvernement dans ses efforts pour assurer un suivi et
    un pilotage efficaces du programme de réformes. Elle a donc soutenus le fonctionnement du
    BEPE, de la DPI et du CSE, organes qui jouaient un rôle essentiel dans le suivi et le pilotage
    de la réforme. Elle a également permis de financer des études techniques complémentaires
    notamment sur la mise en place d'une nouvelle politique du livre scolaire.
    Les résultats obtenus par le PAAE sont globalement très positifs et se mesurent par une
    augmentation spectaculaire du taux brut de scolarisation qui a gagné 16 points en cinq ans en
    arrivant à 54,4% et par l'amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement avec les enseignants
    mieux formés et motivés et des taux d'abandon et de redoublement, en cours de cycle
    primaire, en baisse notable.
    Ces très bons résultats ont été acquis grâce à une forte volonté politique qui a soutenu, sans
    faille, la réforme du système éducatif et grâce à la qualité du suivi et de la supervision des
    activités du Projet menés par une équipe, d'experts de la Banque et de cadres nationaux,
    restée stable et performante tout au long de la durée du Projet.
    L'adhésion des acteurs du terrain (Inspecteurs, conseillers pédagogiques, enseignants et
    directeurs d'école) obtenu par des actions de formations et de sensibilisation, l'amélioration de
    la situation des Finances Publiques et le soutien de la communauté des bailleurs garantissent
    des bonnes chances à la pérennité des réformes introduites.

2-       LE CONTEXTE

        Le Projet d'Amélioration et d'Accès aux écoles a été élaboré durant 2000, au moment où
        une vaste réforme du système Educatif Djiboutien était entreprise.
        En effet, le nouveau Président de la République Monsieur ISMAIL OMAR GUELLEH élu
        en Avril 1999 s'est donné, dès la constitution de son nouveau Gouvernement et la
        nomination de Monsieur ABDI IBRAHIM ABSIEH au poste de Ministre de l'Education
        Nationale, comme première priorité de son action, la réforme du Système Educatif promise
        à ses électeurs lors de sa campagne électorale.
        Le 20 mai 1999, il a donc réuni au Palais Présidentiel, le Ministre de l'Education et une
        dizaine de hauts fonctionnaires du Ministère de l'Education pour leur donner des directives
        claires en vue d'organiser, au plus vite, un vaste débat sur l'état de l'Ecole Djiboutienne



                                                 - 26 -

        devant aboutir sur un programme de reformes sans négliger aucun domaine du secteur
        éducatif.
        Le Pays venait de traverser une grave crise économique et sociale, conséquence d'une
        courte guerre civile, qui s'est déroulée au début des années 90 et qui a eu des effets
        néfastes sur le système éducatif avec des infrastructures scolaires dégradées et des
        enseignants démotivés par les retards et les diminutions successives de salaires.
        Cette volonté politique exprimée au plus haut niveau soutiendra constamment le processus
        de réforme pendant toutes les phases de son déroulement :
-       C'est le Ministre de l'Education qui va présider effectivement le Comité d'Organisation et
de Suivi des Etats Généraux de l'Education dont les assises sont ouvertes et clôturées par le
Président de la République lui-même.
-       Le Gouvernement affirme, dés l'ouverture des assises, sa volonté de faire de la
valorisation des ressources humaines sa première priorité dans sa stratégie de lutte contre la
pauvreté ;
-       Une couverture médiatique exceptionnelle est accordée aux débats des Etats Généraux où
l'ensemble de la population s'est senti concerné et où beaucoup de personnes à travers tout le
Pays se sont exprimées pour critiquer l'état de délabrement de l'école et pour donner leur avis sur
les remèdes éventuelles.
-       Dix études thématiques ont été commandées pour affiner la réflexion sur plusieurs secteurs
clés tels que : la motivation des enseignants, les facteurs qui influent sur l'apprentissage des
enfants, l'insertion des sortants de l'enseignement professionnel, les coûts et financement de
l'éducation, l'audit de l'administration du Ministère, la faisabilité d'une université nationale etc. ...
;
-       Une loi d'orientation du Système Educatif, fidèle aux principales recommandations des
Etats Généraux de l'Education, a été votée dés juillet 2000 par l'Assemblée Nationale ;
-       Un Schéma Directeur 2001-2010 et un Plan d'Action 2001-2005 ont été élaborés par les
cadres du Ministère avec l'assistance technique de plusieurs partenaires au développement dont la
Banque Mondiale, l'Unicef, l'Unesco, l'AIF, la Coopération Française etc. ...
-       Deux tables rondes des Partenaires Techniques et Financiers, une intersectorielle au
Koweït en Mai 2000 et une sectorielle en Octobre 2000 à Djibouti ; ont été organisées pour
discuter de la politique éducative du Gouvernement et pour financer le Plan d'Action 2001-2005.
Ces tables rondes ont permis d'obtenir des engagements fermes à hauteur de 70% des
investissements nécessaires au Plan d'Action 2001-2005 ;
-       Le Président de la République qui a participé à la table ronde organisée à Djibouti s'est
engagé devant les bailleurs de fonds à soutenir le programme d'Investissement en augmentant
progressivement la part du Budget de l'Education dans le Budget de l'Etat de 16% en 2000 à
20% en 2005 et jusqu'à 25% à l'horizon 2010 ;

Le projet d'Amélioration et d'Accès aux Ecoles qui a été évalué pendant la période de
l'élaboration des documents de base de la réforme tels que la Loi d'Orientation, le Schéma
Directeur et le Plan d'action 2001-2005 a intégré les principales priorités de la Politique
Gouvernementale :
-       L'instauration d'une obligation scolaire pour tous les enfants âgés de 6 à 16 ans dans un
Enseignent Fondamental de 9 années ;
-       L'amélioration de la qualité de l'enseignement à travers une réforme des curricula et une



                                                 - 27 -

formation initiale et continue de tous les enseignants ;
-       Le développement de relations partenariales étroites, au niveau des établissements
scolaires, entre les cadres administratifs et pédagogiques, les enseignants, les représentants des
communautés et collectivités locales, les associations des parents d'élèves etc. ...) ;
-       Le renforcement des capacités institutionnelles du Ministère pour lui permettre d'assurer
le pilotage et le suivi de la réforme.
    Le projet d'Amélioration et d'Accès aux Ecoles qui a été négocié en novembre 2000, juste
    après la table ronde sectorielle d'Octobre 2000, a pu être mis en vigueur rapidement et
    démarrer dés Mars 2001.
    Il fut donc le premier à être exécuté parmi les projets du Plan d'Action 2001-2005.
    Cette célérité dans la mise en oeuvre, qui n'a pu être possible que grâce à une équipe d'experts
    de la Banque qui ont suivi de très prés le démarrage du processus de réforme, a permis au
    projet d'apporter rapidement des réponses à une situation d'urgence caractérisée par un faible
    taux brut de scolarisation ( de l'ordre de 39% en 1999) et des médiocres performances à tous
    les niveaux d'un système qui admettait peu d'enfants et qui n'arrivait pas à les garder
    suffisamment longtemps ni à les doter des compétences de base minimales.
    La Banque a également apporté un appui financier à l'organisation des Etats Généraux de
    l'Education et à l'Elaboration des études thématiques et du Schéma Directeur en mobilisant
    rapidement un don Norvégien de 350 000 USD.

3-      LE PROJET ET SES OBJECTIFS

L'IDA a décidé d'accompagner le Schéma Directeur 2001-2010 par un Prêt Programme Evolutif
( PPE) d'un montant global de 30 Millions USD en trois Phases. La première phase, objet de ce
rapport d'achèvement d'un montant de 10 Millions de Dollars, devrait couvrir la période du Plan
d'Action 2001- 2005. Le Projet a effectivement été mise en vigueur en Mars 2001 et a été clôturé
en Juin 2005.

3.1 Les Objectifs du Projet

Cette première phase du PPE devait :
-       Faire face aux besoins urgents en matière d'extension des capacités d'accueil de
l'Enseignement Fondamental en vue de rehausser rapidement le taux de scolarisation dans le cycle
primaire et de s'approcher des objectifs du Millénaire ;
-       Réduire les abandons et améliorer le taux de passage du cycle primaire au cycle moyen ;
-       Permettre une meilleure participation à l'éducation des filles et des enfants issus des
milieux défavorisés ;
-       Accroître la participation de l'enseignement privé à l'effort de scolarisation dans
l'enseignement fondamental ;
-       Améliorer la qualité des apprentissages par des actions de formation d'enseignants et de
directeurs, de rénovation des curricula et de fournitures de manuels scolaires;
-       Aider au payement des coûts récurrents tels que les salaires des nouveaux instituteurs
contractuels ;
-        Appuyer les institutions chargées du suivi et de l'exécution de la réforme.
Les activités du projet qui devaient concourir à l'atteinte des objectifs ci-dessus étaient classées



                                                 - 28 -

selon les trois composantes suivantes:

3.2 Composante1 : Accroissement de la capacité d'accès de l'enseignement fondamental
Le projet devrait financer la construction de 190 salles de classes et la réhabilitation de 36 autres
salles devenues inutilisables. Parmi ses 226 salles supplémentaires à rendre disponibles, 210
devraient concerner le cycle primaire et les 16 salles restantes le cycle moyen.
En vue de permettre une exécution rapide des constructions, les plans standard devaient être
utilisés et la plupart de ses salles devraient se situer dans des écoles qui n'avaient pas les capacités
d'accueil nécessaires pour faire face à une forte demande de scolarisation de leurs quartiers ou
localités
Le Projet devait également améliorer l'état des sanitaires des écoles déjà construites ou en créer
de nouveaux si nécessaire.

3.3 Composante2 : mise en place des conditions pouvant permettre d'Améliorer la qualité des
apprentissages

Les actions prévues dans ce domaine étaient :
-        la formation pour chaque année, pendant 30 jours, de 120 instituteurs contractuels qui
enseignaient sans formation initiale ;
-        la formation des directeurs d'écoles ;
-        le renforcement des capacités d'accueil du CFPEN par la construction de 9 salles de
classes additionnelles et par le perfectionnement de ses formateurs ;
-        la rénovation des curriculums de la formation initiale des instituteurs ;
-        Le payement du salaire de 230 instituteurs contractuels qui devra aider le Gouvernement
à régulariser le payement du salaire de l'ensemble des enseignants ;
-        La fourniture d'une assistance technique et des équipements pour permettre au CRIPEN
de revoir les curriculums de l'enseignement fondamental et d'élaborer de nouveaux manuels
scolaires ;
-        L'équipement de l'imprimerie du CRIPEN en vue de permettre la production des
documents pédagogiques destinés aux enseignants ;
-        L'acquisition de manuels scolaires pour l'ensemble des élèves du cycle primaire pour que
chaque élève puisse disposer de livres scolaires dans toutes les disciplines enseignées ;
-        L'amélioration de l'accès aux manuels scolaires des élèves du cycle moyen ;
-        La préparation d'un guide de formation des directeurs d'écoles et la formation de 30
directeurs d'écoles dans les domaines administratif et pédagogique et dans celui de ses rapports
avec les communautés locales ;
-        L'augmentation de la durée effective des heures de cours dans l'année scolaire en
raccourcissant les vacances scolaires pendant la saison fraîche.
3.3 Composante 3 : Amélioration des capacités du Gouvernement à gérer la Réforme

Le Projet devrait pour cette composante financer :
-        Le fonctionnement du Secrétariat exécutif du CNOSEGE dans ses activités de suivi du
programme de réforme et de mobilisation de ressources supplémentaires ;
-        Le renforcement du Service de la Planification en consultant national et en assistance
technique pour lui permettre d'améliorer la collecte des données et l'élaboration de la carte



                                                   - 29 -

scolaire ;
-       Le salaire du personnel-clé du BEPE notamment en matière de passations de marchés et
de gestion financière ;
-       Les études complémentaires portant sur :
§       Le développement d'une stratégie d'un meilleur coût efficacité,
§       L'atténuation des effets sur la scolarisation des disparités liées aux ressources et au genre,
§       La réduction des coûts de construction des écoles,
§       La maintenance des infrastructures et des équipements scolaires.

4-      L'EVALUATION DES ACQUIS DU PROJET

4.1      ACCES ET EQUITE

4.1.1   L'augmentation des capacités d'accueil
    Le Projet a atteint ses objectifs en terme d'augmentation des capacités d'accueil dans
    l'enseignement fondamental puisque :
a-      Pour le cycle primaire, 160 salles de classes ont été construites et 21 salles de classes ont
été réhabilitées soit au total 181 salles rendues disponibles alors qu'il était prévu de rendre
disponibles 210 salles.
        La construction et la réhabilitation de ses salles de classes ont permis une augmentation
        des capacités d'accueil de plus de 9 000 places qui ont été utilisées puisque les effectifs
        scolaires dans le cycle primaire sont passés de 37 938 en 1999          à   45 598 à la rentrée
        2004 et que le nombre de postes d'instituteurs a augmenté de 445 pendant la même
        période.
        L'augmentation des capacités d'accueil a également permis d'améliorer le taux brut de
        scolarisation dans le cycle primaire de 39% à la rentrée 1999 à 55,4% à la rentrée 2005.
b-       Pour le cycle moyen, 25 salles de classes ont été construites par le projet et 4 salles de
classes ont été réhabilitées soit au total 29 salles de classe rendues disponibles alors qu'il était
prévu de rendre disponibles 16 salles. Le projet a ainsi augmenté la capacité d'accueil de
l'enseignement moyen d'un millier de places qui ont été largement utilisées puisque les effectifs du
cycle moyen sont passés de 11 744 à près de 18 000 de 2000 à 2005.

4.1.2   La réduction des disparités
Le projet a contribué à la réduction des disparités :
-       En rapprochant l'école des lieux de résidence des populations isolés ou des zones urbaines
surpeuplées. (85 salles de classes ont été réalisées dans des quartiers surpeuplés de la Capitale
dont 26 dans le quartier populaire de BALBALA, 21 dans les chefs lieux des districts de
l'Intérieur, et 17 dans des localités où il n'y avait pas d'école).
-       L'effort effectué demeure inégal selon des districts et les localités. Ainsi c'est le District de
Dikhil qui a vu la plus forte amélioration sur ce plan grâce à une excellente implication des
autorités locales, de l'inspecteur chef de la circonscription, des chefs d'établissements et des
enseignants, qui a permis de convaincre de nombreux parents d'élèves.
-       En permettant à davantage de filles d'accéder à l'école grâce aux campagnes de
sensibilisation menées auprès des communautés scolaires et aux mesures d'incitations telles que
l'implication des parents dans la gestion des écoles, la dotation de sanitaires et la mise à



                                                   - 30 -

disposition de cantines scolaires dans la plupart des écoles rurales. L'indice de parité est ainsi
passé de 0.77 à 0.80 entre 2000 et 2005.Afin d'accélérer la réduction des disparités liées au genre,
le ministère s'est doté d'un cadre d'action spécifique, le cadre d'action pour la promotion de
l'éducation des filles (CAPEF) en 2004.

4.2      AMELIORATION DE LA QUALITE

4.2.1    La formation des enseignants
La formation de 230 enseignants contractuels, dépourvus de formation initiale, a été organisée
sous forme de six séances d'une semaine chacune qui se sont déroulées en cours d'année scolaires
pendant les vacances interruptives.
Les séances de formation avaient pour objectifs :
-        de combler au moins partiellement le déficit en formation de ces enseignants,
-        et de les sensibiliser à l'esprit de la nouvelle réforme pédagogique.
Ces formations ont été complétées, sous forme de formation continue, par l'équipe des
inspecteurs et des conseillers pédagogiques qui ont constaté sur le terrain la contribution de ces
formations dans l'amélioration de la qualité des prestations des enseignants contractuels.
Aujourd'hui, grâce à la construction de 10 salles supplémentaires au CFPEN, opérationnelles
depuis la rentrée 2003, tous les nouveaux enseignants du cycle primaire suivent une formation
initiale d'une année ou de deux années suivant qu'ils soient bacheliers ou non. Ce qui a mis fin au
recrutement des enseignants contractuels chargés d'enseigner sans aucune formation initiale.
La formation initiale des enseignants du cycle primaire qui a produit pendant la période du projet
une moyenne annuelle de 160 instituteurs formés a été complètement rénovée et actualisée avec
l'appui d'une assistance technique financée par le projet. Le curriculum de la formation initiale des
instituteurs est ainsi conforme, depuis la rentrée 2003, à la nouvelle méthode pédagogique de
l'APC.
Le CFPEN est aussi impliqué dans la formation continue de l'ensemble des instituteurs titulaires
ou contractuels puisqu'il organise, en collaboration avec le CRIPEN et le Service de
l'Enseignement de Base, la formation des enseignants à l'APC pendant les stages en responsabilité
des élèves instituteurs. Ces stages de une à trois semaines, qui se déroulent au CFPEN, ont déjà
touché plus de 1100 instituteurs sur les 1500 enseignants de toute catégorie à raison de 200 à 300
par an.

4.2.2    La formation des directeurs d'école
Six séances de formation de cinq jours chacune ont été organisées en faveur des Directeurs
d'écoles pendant les années scolaires 2001-2002 et 2002-2003. Ces formations qui ont pris le
relais de celles financées par l'UNICEF ont touchés 77 directeurs.
Ces formations qui avaient pour but de :
-        Mener et planifier les apprentissages selon la nouvelle méthode dite « Approche par les
Compétences »,
-        Impulser un travail d'équipe notamment pendant les semaines dites d'intégration,
-        Assurer le suivi des enseignants participant à la généralisation de la réforme des curricula.
ont permis d'une part une meilleure implication des directeurs d'école dans la réforme
pédagogique actuellement en cours et, d'autre part, une amélioration de la gestion des écoles et
une meilleure participation des parents et des communautés locales dans la gestion des écoles.



                                                    - 31 -

Ainsi, la plupart des écoles possèdent, aujourd'hui, des comités de gestion composés de parents et
d'enseignants, mais ces actions sont à pérenniser par la mise en place d'un dispositif réglementaire
devant faciliter l'exercice des nouvelles responsabilités des parents.
Cependant, ces formations n'ont pas eu tous les effets escomptés sur le plan pédagogique,
domaine dans lequel les directeurs d'école n'interviennent pas encore suffisamment.

4.2.3    La réforme des curriculas.
Le PAAE dans sa première phase a permis de soutenir une réforme ambitieuse des Curriculums
qui a été rendue nécessaire par le constat de carence, des méthodes jusque là en vigueur, établi
lors des Etats Généraux de l'Education de Décembre 1999.
Dés Mars 2001, une cinquantaine des cadres pédagogiques les plus compétents (Inspecteurs,
Conseillers pédagogiques, Chercheurs du CRIPEN et Enseignants), se sont attelés à cette tâche
de réécriture des programmes d'enseignements et de révision des méthodes pédagogiques sous
l'égide de la direction du CRIPEN.
Les travaux de ce groupe ont été suivis de très près par le Ministre lui-même qui a mis en place un
Comité de Pilotage des Programmes d'Enseignement présidé par le Secrétaire Exécutif du Comité
Supérieur de l'Education.
Ce Comité de Pilotage composé des principaux cadres du Ministère, Conseillers Techniques,
Secrétaire Général, Directeurs Généraux, Directeur de la Planification, Directeur du CFPEN,
Directeur du CRIPEN etc. ... a régulièrement rendu compte au Ministre et veillé au bon
déroulement de la réforme des curriculas.
L'appui de la première phase du PAAE, à cette réforme a été d'une importance capitale jusqu'il a
permis de :
·        Financer neuf missions d'expertises internationales du BIEF, (Bureau d'Ingénierie en
Education et Formation) de Bruxelles dans le domaine de l'Approche par les Compétences (APC),
planifiées et organisées au profit de l'équipe nationale (Inspecteurs de l'Enseignement Moyen et
Secondaire, Inspecteurs de l'Enseignement de Base, Conseillers pédagogiques et concepteurs),
avec à chaque fois des objectifs spécifiques ciblant les besoins et les difficultés réelles des
concepteurs et des formateurs.
·        Améliorer les conditions de travail des concepteurs et des membres de la cellule
PAO-DAO par la fourniture de matériels informatiques, de logiciels de mise en pages et de
traitement graphique et de consommables (papeterie, disquettes, cédéroms, ...) ;
·        Coordonner le dispositif d'élaboration des nouveaux curricula autour de domaines en
étroite interaction : conception/production, expérimentation/généralisation et validation ; la
formation des enseignants relevant des prérogatives du CFPEN ;
·        Stabiliser de manière presqu'exhaustive les curricula de l'enseignement primaire avec une
expérimentation actuellement en cours en 5ème année après une généralisation successive en 1ère,
2ème, 3ème et 4ème année de l'enseignement fondamental ;
·        Développer les nouveaux curricula de l'enseignement moyen dans un seul établissement -
le collège CDF ­ et à tous les niveaux de la 6ème à la 9ème année (à partir de l'année scolaire
2005-2006) ; une première extension à d'autres CEM du pays étant prévue pour l'année scolaire
2006/07 ;
·        Rénover, certains équipements de l'imprimerie afin d'aider le CRIPEN à produire les
documents pédagogiques destinés aux enseignants et certains consommables destinés aux élèves.
Le chemin parcouru est aujourd'hui appréciable et le transfert des compétences est significatif en



                                                 - 32 -

ce sens qu'il y a eu l'appropriation de l'APC par les concepteurs et que les documents produits
sont aussi de bonne qualité.
Avec cette nouvelle approche, des semaines d'intégration, d'évaluation et de remédiation ont été
mises en place afin de mieux apprécier l'évolution des acquis des élèves.
Cependant, l'évaluation a été durant les cinq années le point faible de cette réforme des curricula
de part l'insuffisance ou le manque des ressources humaines compétentes en la matière.

4.2.4   L'acquisition et la fourniture de manuels scolaires
Le PAAE a permis l'acquisition de 99 892 manuels scolaires destinés aux élèves de
l'Enseignement Fondamental dont 54 126 pour le cycle primaire et 45 566 pour le cycle moyen.
En 2000, dans le cycle primaire la dotation des écoles en manuels scolaires était nettement
insuffisante puisque l'on arrivait à peine à un livre de lecture pour quatre élèves et pratiquement
pas de livre de mathématiques dans la plupart des écoles.
L'impact des manuels scolaires sur l'apprentissage des élèves n'étant plus à prouver il était prévu,
grâce aux ressources du projet, de porter le ratio des livres scolaires à un livre par élève dans les
deux disciplines principales de lecture et de mathématiques à tous les niveaux du cycle primaire.
Cependant, malgré l'acquisition d'un nombre de livres jugé suffisant au départ, l'objectif n'a pas
été pleinement atteint pour les raisons suivantes :
-       les prévisions des commandes, faites à la rentrée 2001, n'ont pas tenu compte de la
progression rapide des effectifs ni des élèves qui n'étaient pas directement gérés par le service de
l'enseignement de base (les écoles d'application du CFPEN et les écoles privés reconnues ont été
oubliées),
-       les inondations de 2004 ont détruit 16 400 livres stockés dans les établissements où prêtés
aux élèves ;
-       Les livres se sont détériorés plus vite que prévu par manque d'entretien de la part des
familles qui n'avaient pas l'habitude de disposer de livres à domicile ;
-       Les directeurs d'école n'ont pas toujours gérés rigoureusement leurs stocks d'une année
scolaire à l'autre entraînant parfois des pénuries dans certaines écoles et des surplus dans d'autres.
-       Enfin, la conception les nouveaux manuels, conformes aux nouveaux programmes, qui
devait se faire avec le soutien du projet PASDED financé par la Coopération Française, n'a pas pu
être réalisée selon le calendrier prévu.
Toutefois, le PAAE a permis d'améliorer sensiblement la situation des dotations des élèves en
manuels scolaires et le projet financé par l'USAID, actuellement en cours d'exécution, qui vient
de doter le cycle primaire de 95 000 manuels scolaires pour la rentrée 2005, est entrain de combler
les lacunes ci-dessus.
En ce qui concerne le Cycle Moyen de l'Enseignement Fondamental, les manuels achetés ont servi
à compléter les collections de manuels gérés par les ACSES (Associations Coopératives
Socio-Educatives et Sportives) et à doter les nouvelles classes de 6ème et de 3ème créées par
l'ouverture de l'accès à ces niveaux.
Les ACSES qui gèrent les cotisations collectées auprès des parents d'élèves contribuent
également aux frais de fonctionnement des établissements du Moyen aussi bien pour l'entretien de
ces établissements que pour l'acquisition de fournitures d'enseignement.
Cette dotation de manuels scolaires pour les élèves du Moyen est venue soulager les ACSES des
établissements scolaires à un moment où, à cause des difficultés budgétaires, elles avaient
énormément de mal à honorer leurs engagements vis-à-vis des parents.



                                                 - 33 -

4.3     AMELIORATION DES CAPACITES DE GESTION DE LA REFORME

4.3.1   Le salaire des enseignants
Le projet a financé le salaire de 230 instituteurs contractuels de 2001 à 2005. Cette contribution
du projet au financement des charges récurrentes a soutenu l'amélioration de l'accès dans le cycle
primaire à un moment où les Finances Publiques éprouvaient de réelles difficultés à payer
régulièrement les salaires des fonctionnaires en général et ceux des enseignants en particulier.
Ainsi grâce à cette contribution, l'Etat a pu remplir son engagement de mettre des nouveaux
instituteurs à la disposition des nouvelles classes ouvertes.
Cependant la situation économique s'étant améliorée, ce soutien aux charges salariales n'est plus
nécessaire puisque les salaires sont désormais payés régulièrement à l'ensemble des fonctionnaires
depuis l'année 2004.
Toutefois, la part des dépenses non salariales dans le budget de fonctionnement du Ministère est
nettement insuffisante et laisse peu de ressources à l'acquisition des matériels didactiques et à la
maintenance des infrastructures scolaires.

4.3.2   Le Bureau d'Exécution des Projets d'Education( BEPE)
La première phase du PAAE a financé plus de 80% du budget de fonctionnement du Bureau
d'Exécution des Projets d'Education aussi bien en salaires du personnel qu'en frais de formation
et de fonctionnement courant.
Plus spécialement, le projet a financé l'assistance technique internationale d'un architecte et d'un
ingénieur qui, avec l'aide des techniciens nationaux, ont permis de réaliser ou de contrôler
l'ensemble des dossiers techniques de tous les projets gérés par le BEPE et de superviser, soit
directement soit par l'intermédiaire de la DHU ou de bureaux d'études , toutes les réalisations de
génie civil.
Ce soutien a permis, là encore, de soulager le Budget National pendant la période des difficultés
budgétaires où le personnel du BEPE a pu se consacrer sereinement à ses activités de gestion et
de suivi de l'ensemble des projets d'investissement du Ministère.
En effet, le BEPE a géré pendant la période de la première phase du PAAE, l'ensemble des
projets du Plan d'Action 2001-2005 soit :
-       La fin du 3ème projet financé par la BAD achevé en 2004 ;
-       Un projet financé par l'Agence Française de Développement ;
-       Un projet financé par le FADES ;
-       Un projet financé par le Fonds Saoudien de Développement ;
-       Un projet financé par la Banque islamique de Développement ;
-       Un projet financé par le Gouvernement du Japon ;
-       Un projet financé par l'USAID ;
-       L'extension du Pôle Universitaire de Djibouti financé par le Gouvernement.
Le BEPE était également chargé de la coordination des actions de réhabilitation des écoles menées
par divers bailleurs de fonds tels que l'ADETIP, L'Armée Française, et l'Armée Américaine et
l'USAID.
Le BEPE a joué un rôle primordial dans la mise en place de la réforme dans la mesure où il a pu
mettre, correctement et à temps, en collaboration avec les services bénéficiaires, à la disposition
du système éducatif, les infrastructures et les expertises nécessaires notamment celles prévues par



                                                 - 34 -

la première phase du PAAE :
-       Acquisition d'un lot de véhicules, d'équipements informatiques et de divers lots de
mobiliers et matériels destinés aux bénéficiaires des ressources du Projet,
-       Rénovation et équipement des locaux du BEPE et ceux de l'Administration Centrale du
Ministère,
-       Acquisition pour le BEPE d'un logiciel de gestion intégrée pour le suivi de la gestion
financière et un manuel de procédure,
-       Confection des dossiers d'appel d'offres (DAO) concernant la construction de 195
nouvelles salles et la réhabilitation de 25 salles ainsi que leur supervision en collaboration avec la
DHU,
-       L'acquisition de 99 892 livres en faveur des élèves du primaire et du moyen,
-       Le recrutement et la gestion des contrats des consultants nationaux et internationaux
mobilisés dans le cadre du Projet.
Les membres du BEPE ont par ailleurs bénéficié, au cours des nombreuses missions de
supervision, des conseils et des appuis que les différents spécialistes de la Banque leur ont
prodigué.
L'équipe a également participé avec les experts de la Banque, à une réflexion sur la réduction des
coûts unitaires de constructions qui paraissent particulièrement élevés à Djibouti par rapport aux
pays de la région. Ces coûts liés aux conditions économiques particulières de Djibouti (où le
niveau de la vie est élevé et la plupart des matériaux importés), ont tout de même baissé pendant
la période du projet en passant de 100 000 FD le M2 en 1999 à 42 658 FD le m2, en moyenne,
pour les réalisations du Projet. Plus précisément, le coût du m² hors oeuvre pour les salles de classe
est descendu à 39 223 FD pour la première tranche des travaux avant de remonter à 46 093 FD
pour la deuxième tranche.

4.3.3   La Direction de la Planification et de l'Informatisation (DPI)
La Direction de la Planification, qui a joué un rôle central dans la conception et le suivi des Plans
d'Action, a été renforcée par le PAAE. Elle a reçu dans le cadre du projet un important appui en
termes d'équipements informatiques et de renforcement des ressources humaines par la prise en
charge de deux consultants locaux, lesquels sont depuis l'an dernier recrutés par le Ministère.
Cet appui technique et humain a permis d'améliorer l'efficacité de la direction en termes de
collecte et de diffusion d'informations statistiques sous forme de diverses publications.
La première est l'annuaire statistique publié chaque année courant janvier et qui présente une
compilation exhaustive des données, relatives aux établissements scolaires et à la population
scolaire issues d'une enquête auprès des établissements, réalisées entre novembre et décembre. La
seconde est une brochure dite `'point de la rentrée'' publiée chaque année, fin octobre, qui
présente l'état des inscrits dans les établissements scolaires publics.
Des comparaisons des données de ces deux enquêtes, la direction tient à la disposition des
décideurs et du public intéressé une transformation des informations bruts en indicateurs et en
analyses prospectives (modèles de simulation).
Cette Direction a également, au cours de la première phase du PAAE, réalisé diverses études dont
une sur les obstacles à la scolarisation des filles.
La Direction de la Planification a, d'autre part, pris une part très active dans l'initiation et la mise
en oeuvre du processus participatif qui, des Etats Généraux de l'Education de 1999, à l'élaboration
du Plan d'Action 2006-2008 en passant par la revue à mi-parcours d'avril 2003 et le Forum Bilan



                                                   - 35 -

sur la Réforme de Janvier-Février 2005, a permis d'impliquer l'ensemble des partenaires du
système éducatif à toutes les étapes importantes du processus de réforme mené au MENESUP.
Le PAAE a également, financé l'impression du livre « le Bilan de la Réforme » rédigé par la DPI
et publié en janvier 2000 par le Ministère pour servir de base aux débats qui ont permis de
mesurer le chemin parcouru et de jeter les bases pour l'élaboration du plan d'Action 2006-2008.

4.3.4   Le Comité Supérieur de l'Education (CSE)
Le Projet a financé le Secrétariat Exécutif du Comité Supérieur de l'Education qui est l'organe
responsable de la coordination et du suivi de la Réforme.
Cet organe, présidé par le Ministre lui-même, dans lequel sont représentés les hauts responsables
du Ministère ainsi que ceux des administrations publiques (Présidence de la République,
Primature,    Ministères de l'Emploi, des Finances, de l'Intérieur, des Affaires Etrangères) du
secteur privé (Chambre de Commerce, Enseignement Privé) des associations des parents et des
enseignants, est régulièrement consulté à toutes les étapes importantes de la réforme du système
éducatif.
Le Comité Supérieur de l'Education a débattu et approuvé :
-       Les conclusions de la revue à mi-parcours du Plan d'Action 2001-2005 ;
-       Le projet de Décret sur l'Enseignement Privé dont l'application devrait favoriser son
développement quantitatif et qualitatif ;
-       Le Bilan de la Réforme publié en Janvier 2005 et les recommandations du Forum Bilan de
février 2005 :
-       Les orientations du Plan d'Action 2006-2008 ;
-       Etc. ...
ainsi que la mise en place de plusieurs groupes de travail sur des sujets touchant la réforme du
système éducatif.
Plus concrètement, le Secrétaire Exécutif préside le Comité de Pilotage des Projets d'Education
qui assure le suivi de l'ensemble des projets issus des Plans d'Action.
Ce Comité composé, essentiellement des techniciens du Ministère et des institutions partenaires,
coordonne les activités de différents projets et s'assure de leurs cohérences avec les objectifs fixés.
Le Secrétariat Exécutif assure également la coordination avec les partenaires techniques et
financiers regroupés dans un GPE (Groupe des Partenaires de l'Education), présidé par la France
depuis sa création en 2004.
Le GPE a été associé aux débats sur le Bilan du Plan d'Action 2001-2005 et a collaboré à
l'élaboration du Plan d'Action 2006-2008. Il soutient, enfin, Djibouti dans sa demande d'adhésion
à l'IMOA (Initiative de Mise en Oeuvre Accélérée) de l'Education pour Tous.
Le Secrétariat Exécutif devrait également suivre les activités des Comités Régionaux d'Education
présidés par les Commissaires de la République chefs des districts dont le fonctionnement reste
encore assez embryonnaire.
Ces Comités qui ont participé et organisé les débats du Forum de janvier 2005 dans les régions
devraient être redynamisés et régulés dans le processus actuel de décentralisation administrative
en cours. Ils devront être davantage associés aux prises de décision concernant la carte scolaire, la
gestion des cantines scolaires et l'entretien des infrastructures locales.

4.3.5    Les études complémentaires.
Alors que cinq études étaient envisagées lors de l'évaluation du projet :



                                                 - 36 -

-       Le développement d'une stratégie d'un meilleur coût-efficacité ;
-       L'atténuation des effets, sur la scolarisation, des disparités liées aux ressources et au genre
;
-       La réduction des coûts de construction des écoles ;
-       La maintenance des infrastructures et des équipements scolaires ;
-       L'efficacité des toilettes ajourées dans un pays sujet aux sécheresses ;
deux études seulement ont pu être réalisées avec les crédits du PAAE, il s'agit :
 a- d'une étude sur la Chaîne du Livre Scolaire réalisée par une expertise internationale et qui a
permis de discuter et d'adopter une politique nationale du livre scolaire qui fera du CRIPEN une
maison d'édition du livre scolaire à part entière.

b- et d'une étude sur les obstacles à la scolarisation des filles, réalisée par la Direction de la
Planification, dont les recommandations ont fait l'objet d'un « Cadre d'Action pour la Promotion
de l'Education des Filles » (CAPEF) adopté par le Ministère. Le CAPEF sert actuellement de
cadre de référence aux actions des différents bailleurs dans ce domaine.

Et sans faire l'objet d'une étude détaillée, le BEPE a intégré la technique des toilettes ajourées
dans les sanitaires des écoles isolées.
D'autres études sur:
-       La carte scolaire ;
-       Les enfants ayant des besoins spéciaux ;
-       Et la maintenance des infrastructures scolaires ;
Ont été réalisées dans le cadre du PPA et ont servi à mieux préparer la deuxième phase du PAAE.

5-      LES FACTEURS AYANT INFLUENCE L'EXECUTION DU PROJET
Des facteurs ayant influencés favorablement l'exécution du projet, les plus importantes semblent
être :
-       L'existence d'un programme sectoriel de réformes clair et cohérent, issu d'un large
consensus national et soutenu par une forte volonté politique gouvernementale qui a fait de
l'Education le principal moyen de lutte contre la pauvreté. Ainsi, même dans la période 2001-2003
où de réelles difficultés budgétaires subsistaient le secteur de l'Education a été privilégié dans
l'allocation des ressources publiques aussi bien au niveau des recrutements de fonctionnaires
(toutes les classes ouvertes ont reçu l'affectation des enseignants nécessaires) que dans celui des
investissements dans les infrastructures où le parc des salles de classe a augmenté de plus de 50%.
-       Le projet dans sa conception s'intégrait parfaitement au Schéma Directeur 2001-2010 et
au Plan d'Action 2001-2005 du Gouvernement basés sur les recommandations des Etats Généraux
de l'Education et sur une loi d'orientation du système éducatif,
-       Un suivi et une supervision très efficace d'une même équipe de la Banque qui a travaillé en
étroite collaboration avec une même équipe de cadres du Ministère tout au long de la durée
d'exécution du projet,
-       Une forte implication des cadres pédagogiques dans le processus de réforme à tous les
niveaux, depuis les inspecteurs et les concepteurs du CRIPEN jusqu'aux enseignants des régions
rurales, obtenue grâce à l'introduction de la nouvelle méthode pédagogique dite APC (Approche
Par les Compétences) et aux formations organisées pour l'ensemble des enseignants qui appliquent
progressivement la méthode,
-       L'amélioration de la conjoncture économique djiboutienne qui a permis la régularisation


                                                 - 37 -

du payement des salaires des enseignants et des cadres administratifs et pédagogiques.
-       Le maintien d'un processus participatif pour s'assurer de l'adhésion la plus large aux
réformes introduites destinées à améliorer le fonctionnement du système éducatif.
-       La confiance et le soutien des partenaires techniques et financiers qui ont participé à toutes
les étapes du processus participatif.
-       L'efficacité de l'équipe du BEPE qui a capitalisé une expérience dans la gestion des
projets aussi bien sur le plan de sa gestion administrative et financière que sur celui de la
confection des dossiers techniques et de la connaissance des procédures de la Banque Mondiale.

Des facteurs qui ont gêné l'exécution du projet, on pourrait noter :
-       Une mauvaise connaissance des données démographiques qui a rendu difficile
l'élaboration d'une carte scolaire fiable et une bonne appréciation de la demande scolaire ;
-       Le manque d'une stratégie en matière de communication en vue de coordonner et
d'améliorer l'efficacité des moyens matériels et humains à la disposition du Ministère dans ce
domaine ;
-       Une maîtrise insuffisante des indicateurs de suivi de la réforme qui ont parfois entraîné un
décalage des décisions de carte scolaire par rapport aux objectifs fixés par le cadrage du plan
d'action ;
-       La faiblesse des ressources humaines dans le domaine de l'évaluation qui n'a pas permis de
mesurer, avec assez de rigueur, l'impact des réformes sur l'apprentissage des enfants et sur les
pratiques pédagogiques des enseignants ;
-       L'implication des parents d'élèves et des ONG dans la vie scolaire qui n'a pas pu être
généralisée et une participation encore insuffisante à la prise en charge de l'école, par les
communautés locales, surtout sur le plan de l'entretien et du gardiennage des locaux ;
-       L'insuffisance du soutien à l'enseignement privé qui ne lui a pas permis d'augmenter son
offre d'éducation ni d'en améliorer la qualité ;
-       L'insuffisance des crédits destinés aux dépenses non salariales dans le Budget de
fonctionnement des établissements scolaires qui ne permet pas l'acquisition de matériels
didactiques en quantité suffisante ni la maintenance des infrastructures et des matériels et mobiliers
;
-       Les retards dans la mise en place des crédits de la contrepartie gouvernementale au projet
qui ont parfois retardé l'exécution des marchés de construction ou d'équipement et ont, en partie,
contribué au renchérissement des offres des entrepreneurs lors de la deuxième tranche des travaux
de génie civil ;
-       Les retards dans la mise en oeuvre de certaines activités financées par d'autres bailleurs de
fonds ;
-       L'insuffisance de rigueur des certains responsables dans la gestion des ressources
humaines et matérielles due au manque de formation dans ce domaine ;
-       Quelques difficultés du BEPE dans les domaines de la passation des marchés et de
l'archivage des documents ;
-       La rareté ou l'inexistence sur place des ressources humaines locales en expertise de haut
niveau dans les domaines d'ingénierie pédagogique et de l'édition scolaire qui entraîne une
dépendance vis-à-vis de l'assistance technique internationale.

6-      LES GARANTIES DE PERENNITE



                                                 - 38 -

    Les risques en ce domaine, identifiés lors de l'évaluation du projet étaient que:
a-      La situation économique de l'Etat ne s'améliore pas et qu'il n'arrive donc ni à payer
régulièrement les enseignants déjà en fonction ni à assurer les recrutements nécessaires à
l'utilisation des nouvelles salles.
        Le risque qui a été minimisé, dés le départ, par la prise en charge du payement des salaires
        de 230 instituteurs contractuels par le projet, a disparu du fait de l'amélioration de la
        situation économique de Djibouti qui vient de renouer avec la croissance économique, en
        partie, grâce aux revenus engendrés par l'installation de bases militaires des grandes
        puissances attirées par sa position stratégique et sa stabilité politique.
        Le cadrage macroéconomique du Plan d'Action 2006-2008, que nous venons d'établir en
        concertation étroite avec les cadres du Ministère des Finances, est bâti sur une hypothèse
        de croissance du PIB de plus de 3% à 4% d'ici 2015.
        Actuellement toutes les salles construites par le projet sont utilisées et les enseignants
        nécessaires à la progression des effectifs sont recrutés puis entièrement et régulièrement
        payés par l'Etat. Le projet a ainsi cessé, depuis janvier 2005, de contribuer au payement du
        salaire des enseignants.
        Toutefois les ambitions de Djibouti d'atteindre les objectifs de scolarisation universelle
        dans l'enseignement fondamental d'ici 2015, dépassent la part des ressources prévisibles
        que l'Etat pourrait consacrer au secteur éducatif même s'il respecte son engagement de
        consacrer, à l'horizon de 2010, jusqu'à 25% de ses ressources budgétaires à l'Education.
        Le défi qui devra être relevé par le Ministère est donc d'améliorer la gestion de ses
        ressources humaines en vue de diminuer les coûts unitaires de formation tout en améliorant
        les conditions de travail des enseignants dont dépend la qualité de l'enseignement.
        Le gouvernement devra également rechercher des ressources additionnelles auprès des
        partenaires au développement désireux d'aider les pays qui se sont engagés dans une
        politique éducative susceptible de les conduire à l'objectif d'éducation pour tous.
        Dans cette optique, le Ministère est actuellement entrain de préparer son dossier de
        candidature à l'IMOA ( Fast Track) de l'EPT.

b-       L'augmentation des capacités d'accueil des écoles ne se traduise pas par une
augmentation des taux de scolarisation par insuffisance de stimulation de la demande
scolaire notamment chez les filles et les enfants des milieux défavorisés.
        Le taux brut de scolarisation s'est nettement amélioré. Il est passé de 39% en 1999 à
        55,4% en 2005 dans le cycle primaire des six premières années.
        Cette augmentation spectaculaire, de plus de 16% en cinq ans, a été obtenue grâce à une
        mobilisation des parents d'élèves et de toute la société civile sur l'importance pour la
        Nation, de l'éducation des jeunes générations et plus spécialement celle des filles.
        L'offre d'éducation a été dirigée surtout vers les quartiers défavorisés et vers les zones
        rurales où l'augmentation des taux de scolarisation a été la plus forte.
        Lors de l'évaluation du Bilan de la Réforme et lors des débats du Forum de Février 2005,
        ces résultats ont été unanimement salués.
        Suite aux recommandations de ce Forum, les derniers obstacles administratifs qui auraient
        pu freiner l'admission des nouveaux élèves ont été levés. Depuis la rentrée 2005, seule une
        copie d'extrait d'acte de naissance est demandée, aux parents habitant les villes où l'état



                                                 - 39 -

       civil existe, pour permettre l'évaluation de l'age de l'enfant, mais plus aucune condition
       n'est posée à l'inscription des enfants des zones rurales.
       Cependant, malgré ces très bons résultats, obtenus grâce aux constructions de nouvelles
       salles financées par le PAAE, mais aussi par la coopération japonaise (80 salles de classe),
       la BAD (50 salles de classe), l'USAID (26 salles de classe), etc..., il ne faut pas oublier
       que l'objectif cible du plan d'Action 2001-2005 était de 65% de taux de scolarisation dans
       le cycle primaire.
       Ce résultat, peut-être trop ambitieux, n'a pas pu être atteint alors que les infrastructures
       prévues pour cette cible ont été construites et que le CFPEN avait reçu les moyens
       matériels et humains pour former les enseignants nécessaires.

       En effet, nous n'avons pas pu recruter chaque année le nombre prévu de nouveaux enfants
       de six ans soit parce que l'école n'est pas encore assez proche des endroits où se trouvent
       les enfants qui ne s'inscrivent pas, soit parce que nous n'arrivons pas encore à attirer
       certaines couches de la population.
       Pour réussir à améliorer encore le taux brut de scolarisation dans le cycle primaire, qui est
       toujours trop bas malgré les progrès accomplis, nous devons mieux affiner notre carte
       scolaire et réfléchir sur les obstacles, à la scolarisation, qui persistent.
       Toutefois, une incertitude demeure sur nos données démographiques et sur la distribution
       de la population sur le Territoire de la République. Nous attendons donc impatiemment le
       recensement général de la population qui devrait se faire en 2007

c-     La disponibilité des livres scolaires ne contribue pas à l'amélioration de la qualité de
l'enseignement.
       L'influence des livres sur l'amélioration de la qualité des enseignements n'est plus à
       prouver puisque toutes les études faites à Djibouti et ailleurs le prouvent.
       Cependant nous avons noté ci-dessus quelques disfonctionnements dans la gestion des
       manuels scolaires au niveau des écoles et l'on peut aussi se demander la pertinence des
       manuels, actuellement à la disposition des élèves, par rapport à la nouvelle méthode
       pédagogique en cours de généralisation dans nos écoles.
       L'étude sur la chaîne du livre, que nous venons de mener avec une expertise étrangère
       financée par le projet, nous a fourni les bases d'une nouvelle politique du livre qui devrait
       aboutir à doter, d'ici quelques années, l'ensemble des élèves des neuf années de
       l'Enseignement Fondamental de manuels scolaires adaptés à la nouvelle méthode et au
       contexte djiboutien dans toutes les matières.
       En donnant au CRIPEN les moyens statutaires, matériels et humains pour devenir une
       véritable maison d'édition, (cet établissement vient de montrer ces capacités en pilotant la
       réforme des cirruculas) le pari d'un livre par élève et par discipline devra être tenu dans les
       limites de coûts soutenables.
       Déjà, en plus de la deuxième phase du PAAE qui prévoit un important appui au CRIPEN,
       plusieurs bailleurs de fonds, comme la Coopération Française , l'USAID et l'UNICEF, la
       BID, l'UNESCO, le FADES, le FONDS de l'OPEP ... sont disposés à soutenir ou
       soutiennent déjà cette politique du livre.

d-     Malgré le nouveau curriculum, les enseignants continuent comme par le passé à



                                                  - 40 -

mettre l'accent sur les thèmes faisant l'objet des examens de fin d'année.
      La méthode adoptée pour mettre en place le nouveau curriculum et la distance entre cette
      méthode et l'ancienne, garantissent contre tout retour en arrière.
      A l'aide d'une assistance technique internationale, nous avons d'abord formé une équipe
      nationale de formateurs, composée d'inspecteurs, de conseillers pédagogique et
      d'enseignants, en service dans différentes institutions (CRIPEN,CFPEN, Enseignement de
      Base, Enseignement moyen et secondaire), qui maîtrise parfaitement la méthode et qui
      assure la démultiplication progressive de la formation aux enseignants concernés par la
      réforme.
      En effet, cette méthode pédagogique dite APC « Approche Par les Compétences » est
      radicalement différente de celle en vigueur auparavant dans nos écoles.
      La nouvelle méthode cherche à développer chez l'enfant des aptitudes à acquérir des
      compétences pour mobiliser ses savoirs et les utiliser dans des situations problèmes.
      Elle met donc moins l'accent sur l'acquisition des contenus que sur la capacité des enfants
      à les mobiliser pour résoudre un problème.
      L'ancienne méthode faisait une place centrale aux contenus qui devaient être appris et
      récités à la demande sans se poser la question de savoir, à chaque fois, si les connaissances
      apprises sont utilisables.
      L'apprentissage est organisé selon un rythme de six semaines d'acquisition de contenus
      suivi d'une semaine d'intégration des connaissances acquises et d'évaluation selon des
      critères précis, elle-même suivie une fois sur deux par une semaine de rémédiation destinée
      à combler les lacunes constatées.
      Les tests d'évaluation qui se déroulent tout au long de l'année cherchent à déterminer si
      une compétence à mobiliser des connaissances est acquise et pour permettre à l'élève et au
      maître de connaître le niveau de maîtrise de la compétence en vue d'apporter une
      rémédiation si nécessaire ou de passer à l'acquisition de la compétence suivante.
      Les examens ne contrôlent plus l'enregistrement de connaissances à restituer.
      Le passage d'un cycle à l'autre est sanctionné par un test d'évaluation portant sur
      l'Objectif Terminal d'Intégration (OTI) dans les disciplines fondamentales ( français,
      mathématiques, ...) avec une part de contrôle continu pour les disciplines d'éveil.
      Malgré les mesures prévues, pour assurer la pérennité de la reforme, il reste à justifier, aux
      yeux des enseignants, des élèves et des parents, l'efficacité de la nouvelle méthode dans
      l'apprentissage des enfants et dans la construction de la personnalité des enfants en vue de
      les aider à s'adapter au mieux à la vie communautaire et à trouver leurs places pour un
      meilleur épanouissement de tous.
      En quoi cette méthode est-elle un progrès considérable, par rapport à l'ancienne méthode,
      dans l'évolution de la pédagogie moderne ? Quel est le degré d'adhésion des enseignants
      et des parents à cette nouvelle méthode ?
      Nous devons répondre à ces questions de la manière la plus objective possible et nous ne
      pouvons le faire qu'en procédant à une évaluation scientifique qui devra comparer les
      performances des élèves selon la méthode suivie.
       Cette évaluation aurait dû accompagner la réforme dés le début de sa mise en place.
  On aurait alors pu comparer les performances des élèves chaque année entre la
  cohorte expérimentale et la cohorte parallèle ayant la même âge mais qui reste soumise
  à l'ancienne méthode.



                                              - 41 -

      Par manque de disponibilité de ressources humaines formées, nous n'avons pas pu,
  jusqu'aujourd'hui procéder à une évaluation complète de la nouvelle méthode dans le
  contexte djiboutien.
      La nouvelle méthode sera généralisée en 2006-2007 à la 5ème année et cette année là,
  c'est-à-dire l'an prochain, il y aura encore une cohorte de CM2 qui restera soumise à
  l'ancien curriculum.
      A la rentrée 2007, ces deux cohortes devront se retrouver ensemble en 6ème année du
  Fondamental et suivront le nouveau curriculum.
      Ces deux cohortes, dont une qui a suivi la nouvelle méthode pédagogique pendant cinq
  années et l'autre qui y a complètement échappé mais qui a suivi six années l'ancienne               école
  primaire, pourront-elles suivre le même type d'enseignement et comment les                  gérer ? Dans
  des mêmes classes mixées ou dans des classes différentes ?
     La cellule évaluation qui vient d'être renforcée en personnel et dont la formation va
     démarrer bientôt sera-t-elle prête pour nous éclairer sur les effets de la nouvelle méthode
     dans la qualité des apprentissages ?
      Pour n'avoir pas pu intégrer davantage et dès le début, la fonction d'évaluation dans
  notre dispositif de réforme, nous n'avons plus beaucoup de marge de manoeuvre.
      L'année 2006-2007 sera donc décisive pour prendre les décisions qui pérenniseront ou
  non cette nouvelle méthode et nous devrons nous entourer de toutes les expertises
  possibles en vue de prendre les meilleures décisions.
      Un groupe de travail au sein du Comité de Pilotage de la réforme des curriculums a été
  constitué en vue de se donner toutes les chances pour réussir le passage de la nouvelle
  méthode du cycle primaire au cycle moyen.

7-    CONCLUSIONS

  Au vue des résultats obtenus grâce aux activités financées par la première phase du PAAE et
  que nous venons de décrire plus haut, l'on ne peut être que très satisfait de son exécution
  d'autant plus que le projet a été clôturé à la date initialement prévue, sans aucune demande de
  prolongation. L'essentiel des activités prévues par le projet étaient, d'ailleurs, déjà achevées
  une année avant la date officielle de clôture.
  Le projet devait améliorer l'accès à l'enseignement fondamental surtout au niveau du cycle
  primaire en rendant disponibles 226 salles de classe supplémentaires.
  A la fin du projet 210 salles sont rendues opérationnelles auxquels il faut ajouter 8 clôtures, 20
  blocs sanitaires, 2 dortoirs et 4 réfectoires qui ont été réalisés sur plusieurs sites.
  L'on peut donc estimer que l'augmentation prévue des capacités d'accueil a été réalisée.
  L'ensemble des activités qui devaient concourir à améliorer la qualité, aussi bien dans le
  domaine de la formation des enseignants et des directeurs d'écoles que dans celui de la
  reforme des curriculas, ont été toutes réalisées et atteint les objectifs fixés à une réserve prés
  concernant la dotation de manuels aux élèves du cycle primaire à raison d'un livre par élève.
  L'objectif a été atteint en 2003 à la fin de la distribution des livres financés par le projet mais
  n'a pas pu être maintenu à ce niveau à cause des aléas d'ordre humains et climatiques qui ont
  rendu une partie des livres inutilisables.
  Quant à l'appui aux institutions chargées du suivi, le BEPE, la DPI et le CSE, qui ont été
  bénéficiaires de cet appui, elles ont exécuté sans faille les taches et les fonctions prévues et ont



                                                - 42 -

    obtenu les résultats escomptés.
    Le payement du salaire des 230 instituteurs contractuels a contribué, comme prévu, à
    régulariser les salaires des enseignants pendant la période où l'Etat éprouvait des difficultés
    budgétaires.
    Enfin les reformes souhaitées ont été réalisées notamment celles qui conditionnaient le passage
    à la deuxième phase du PPE :
-       Depuis la rentrée 2002, un arrêté fixe le calendrier de l'année scolaire qui comporte plus
de 32 semaines de cours effectifs en dehors des vacances interruptives qui ont été raccourcis.
Tous les chefs d'établissement appliquent scrupuleusement l'arrêté sous le contrôle des
inspecteurs et des chefs de service de l'enseignement de base et de l'enseignement moyen.
-       Le part du Budget de l'Education dans le Budget National dépasse largement la limite des
16% prévus. Elle était de plus de 23% en 2004.
-       Un décret prévoyant des subventions à l'Enseignement Privé et simplifiant les procédures
d'ouverture a été signé en juin 2005,
-       Une étude sur les obstacles à la scolarisation des filles dont les recommandations ont fait
l'objet d'un « Cadre d'Action pour la Promotion de l'Education des Filles » (CAPEF) a été
effectué par la DPI
-       Le concours d'entrée dans la classe de 6ème de l'Enseignement Moyen sera supprimé en
juin 2007 comme il est prévu dans la loi portant d'orientation du système éducatif,
-       Enfin, la participation communautaire à la gestion des écoles, relancée par une circulaire
ministérielle parue en 2000, est devenue une pratique courante, qui devra être consolidée par un
texte réglementaire durant la deuxième phase du PAAE.

On peut donc estimer que la première phase du Projet d'Amélioration et d'Accès aux Ecoles, a été
exécuté dans de très bonnes conditions et a atteint pratiquement tous les objectifs visés.




                                                - 43 -

- 44 -

