Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3445 - DJI
Development Credit Agreement
(School Access and Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Date January 22, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3445 - DJI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, date January 22, 2001, between REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated October 30, 2000, from 
the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
improve quality and increase enrollment rates in primary education (the Program) and 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Program;
(B)
the Borrower has requested that the Association support its execution of 
the Program through a series of Credits over a period of ten years, the proceeds of 
such Credits to be utilized by the Borrower for implementing the Program; 
(C)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which Project forms the 
first phase of the Program, has requested the Association to assist in the financing 
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
Page  2
to extend the Credit to the Borrower in support of the first phase of the Program upon 
the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the 
Association determines meets the requirements set forth in 
Section 11 of 
Resolution No. 194 of 
the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 
8, 1999; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, collectively, 
all such countries.”;
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall 
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on 
account of 
expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not 
a 
Participating Country or for goods produced 
in, or services supplied from, 
such territories; or (b) for 
the purpose of any payment to persons or 
entities, or for 
any import of goods, if such payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations.”; and
(c)
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions is modified to 
read as follows:
“(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between 
the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably 
request, 
on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its 
cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from it, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Association of their 
respective 
obligations under the Credit Agreement and the 
accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Credit.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“BEPE” means the executing unit of education projects (Bureau d’Exécution 
des Projets d’Education), established and operating within the Ministry of National 
Education;
(b)
“CFPEN” means the Borrower's staff training center for national education 
(Centre de Formation des Personnelles de l’Education Nationale), established and 
operating within the Ministry of National Education;
(c)
“CNOSEGE” means the national committee for the organization and 
Page  3
monitoring of the forum on education (Comité National d’Organisation et de Suivi des 
Etats Généraux de l’Education), established and operating within the Ministry of 
National Education;
(d)
“CRIPEN” means the Borrower's national education research and information 
production center (Centre de Recherche d’Information et de Production de l’Education 
Nationale), established and operating within the Ministry of National Education;
(e)
“Contractual Teachers” means teachers of non-civil service status 
recruited on a contractual basis for a fixed renewable term;
(f)
“DGEN” means the Directorate General for National Education within the 
Borrower's Ministry of National Education (Direction Générale de l’Education 
Nationale);
(g)
“DHU” means the Borrower’s directorate for habitat and urbanism 
established and operating under the Ministry of Habitat, Urbanism, Environment and 
Zoning (Direction de l’Habitat et Urbanisme);
(h)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s plan, dated July 23, 
2000, as such plan may be updated from time to time by agreement of the Borrower and 
the Association, consisting of the set of mitigation, monitoring, and institutional 
measures to be taken during implementation and operation to eliminate adverse 
environmental and social impacts, offset them, or reduce them to acceptable levels;
(i)
“IAPSO” means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Office of the United 
Nations;
(j)
“MEN” means the Ministry of National Education of the Borrower;
(k)
“PIP” means the Borrower's Project Implementation Plan dated November 16, 
2000, agreed between the Borrower and the Association, as the same may be amended by 
agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for the implementation of the 
Project;
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on 
behalf of the Association on September 25, 2000 and on behalf of the Borrower on 
October 8, 2000; and
(n)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,800,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods, works and services required for the Project and to be 
Page  4
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each February 1 and August 1, commencing February 1, 2011, and ending August 1, 2040. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on August 1, 2020, shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
Page  5
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, educational, environmental and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the PIP and the Environmental Management Plan.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Without limitation to its obligations under Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall, for the purposes of making available its counterpart 
contribution to the financing of the Project:
(a)
open and maintain an account (the Project Account) in its Central Bank on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
(b)
make an initial deposit into such account, in an amount equivalent to one 
hundred and twenty five thousand United States dollars (US$125,000), to finance the 
Borrower’s contribution to the Project for the first six months;
(c)
thereafter deposit into the Project Account at least once every six 
months, such amounts as shall be required to replenish the Project Account back to the 
level of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b) above; and
(d)
use the Project Account funds exclusively to finance expenditures under 
Page  6
the Project.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months before the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section and the 
records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable 
to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but 
in any case not later than three months after the end 
of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an 
opinion on such statements, 
records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by said auditors, of 
such scope 
and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information 
concerning such records and accounts, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association 
has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine 
such records; and
Page  7
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section and that the report of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of 
expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the 
procedures and 
internal controls involved in their 
preparation, can 
be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in 
paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
December 31, 2001, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare 
quarterly Project Management Reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of 
funds for the Project, both cumulatively and for the 
period covered by said report, and projected sources 
and applications of 
funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period 
covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the 
period covered by said report and expenditures 
proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the 
six-month period following the 
period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project 
implementation, both cumulatively and for the period 
covered by said report, and (B) explains variances 
between the actual 
and previously forecast 
implementation targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the 
Project and expenditures under contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end 
of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01 Pursuant to Section 6.02(l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation shall have arisen 
which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will 
be carried out.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions; namely, that the Borrower has made the initial deposit 
into the Project Account referred to in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Page  8
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Economy, Finance and Planning in charge of 
Privatization of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
  in charge of Privatization
BP: 13
Djibouti City
Republic of Djibouti
Facsimile:
(253) 35 6501
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
    Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
    248423 (MCI) or
202 477-6391
Washington, D.C.  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
By /s/ Roble Olhaye
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Mahmood A. Ayub
Acting Regional Vice President
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
Page  9
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the 
Allocated 
   % of
(Expressed in 
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed 
(1)
Civil Works 
   3,170,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(2)
Goods 
   1,730,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures and 90%
of local expenditures
(3)
Consultants’ Services
    2,120,000
100%
and training 
(4)
Incremental 
Operating Costs:
(a)  audit fees
   30,000
100%
(b)  other expenditures 
   240,000
90%
(5)
Refunding of Project 
   220,000
Amount due pursuant
Preparation Advance
to section 2.02 (c) of 
this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated 
   290,000
TOTAL
      7,800,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods, works or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods, works or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)
the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the 
Borrower on account of communication expenses, office supplies, furniture, audit fees, 
vehicle insurance and maintenance of vehicles and equipment.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts 
costing less than US$70,000 equivalent each; (b) works under contracts costing less 
than US$150,000 equivalent each; (c) services under contracts for consulting firms 
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent each; (d) services under contracts for 
individual consultants costing less than US$25,000 equivalent each; (e) training; and 
(f) Incremental Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
Page  10
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to enhance the quality of education and increase 
enrollment in primary schools.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
PART A.
Upgrading School Capacity
1.
Carrying out a program to increase the capacity of existing schools, by 
constructing, rehabilitating and furnishing 210 classrooms in primary schools and 16 
classrooms in middle schools.
2.
Rehabilitating existing sanitation services within school premises and promoting 
more efficient and effective sanitation services, through the provision of goods, 
works and consultant services.
PART B.
Quality Enhancement
1.
Reinforcing and upgrading the skills of teachers, through the provision of 
consultant services and training.
2.
Carrying out a program to recruit and train additional Contractual Teachers, 
through the provision of consultant services and training.
3.
Enhancing the capacity of CFPEN to train primary school teachers, through the 
construction or rehabilitation of training facilities, consultant services and 
training.
4.
Carrying out a program to provide head teachers with administrative and 
pedagogical supervision skills and to promote involvement of teachers, parents and 
local communities, through the provision of consultant services and training.
5.
Improving and updating the school curricula and increasing the availability of 
relevant books and education materials, through the provision of goods and consultant 
services.
PART C.
Institutional Capacity Development
1.
Increasing the capacity of CNOSEGE in its effort to coordinate and raise support 
for the education sector reforms, through the provision of goods, consultant services 
and training.
2.
Strengthening the capacity of the planning unit of MEN and BEPE, through the 
provision of equipment, consultant services and training.
3.
Assisting the MEN  in developing strategic studies through the provision of 
consultant services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Page  11
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
1.
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and 
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the provisions of the following Parts of this 
Section I.
2.
In paragraphs 1.6 and 1.8 of the Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, and works, except as otherwise 
provided in Paragraph 5 of Part C, shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which are of a proprietary nature and estimated to cost less than $10,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
Page  12
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Association, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
6.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Information technology hardware, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $80,000 
may be procured from IAPSO in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $70,000 or more; (ii) works estimated to cost the equivalent of $150,000 
or more; (iii) the first five contracts for works during the first calendar year, and 
the first three contracts for works during each calendar year thereafter; and (iv) the 
first five contracts for goods during the first calendar year, and the first three 
contracts for goods during each calendar year thereafter, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for: (i) goods procured in accordance with 
international or national shopping procedures; (ii) goods procured in accordance with 
direct contracting procedures; and (iii) works procured in accordance with procurement 
of small works procedures, the following procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of 
any contract under shopping procedures, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Association a report on the 
comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under 
direct contracting or shopping procedures, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Association a copy of 
the specifications 
and the draft contract; and
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 
3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  13
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with (a) the provisions of 
the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999, subject to the modifications thereto set 
forth in paragraph 2 of this Part A (the Consultant Guidelines), and (b) the 
provisions of the following Parts of this Section II.
2.
In paragraph 1.10 of the Consultant Guidelines, the references to “Bank member 
countries” and “member country” shall be deemed to be references, respectively, to 
“Participating Countries” and “Participating Country”.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services which are estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $15,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Page  14
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$100,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for: (i) the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or more; and (ii) contracts 
awarded in accordance with single source procedures, the qualifications, experience, 
terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
Overall Project implementation and monitoring shall take place under the 
auspices of the CNOSEGE. CNOSEGE shall meet on a quarterly basis during the first year 
of Project implementation, and on a semi-annual basis thereafter.
2.
DGEN shall be responsible for: (i) the management and the day-to-day operations 
of the Project; (ii) the development of annual operations plans; and (iii) the 
coordination amongst the relevant units within MEN in the carrying out of the Project.
3.
BEPE shall: (i) assist DGEN in the implementation of the Project; (ii) be 
responsible for procurement activities and financial management; and (iii) produce 
Project Management Reports and quarterly progress reports. 
4.
MEN shall maintain arrangements satisfactory to the Association, with DHU, 
pursuant to which DHU shall be in charge of architectural services and the supervision 
of the works.
5.
The Borrower shall, not later than March 31, 2001, appoint an independent 
auditor under contractual arrangements and terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association.
6.
The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 2001, carry out and submit to 
the Association a final report, acceptable to the Association, for a baseline survey 
on the distribution of students by gender and socioeconomic background.
7.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about September 15, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
Page  15
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by December 15, 2002, or such later date as 
the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Association, not later than January 1, 2004, a 
report describing the progress in the fulfillment of the actions referred to in the 
Program, including the attainment of the milestones agreed between the Association and 
the Borrower and required to be reached as a pre-requisite to initiate the second 
phase of the Program; and
(b)
review with the Association, not later than March 15, 2004, or such later 
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in subparagraph (a) of 
this paragraph, and, thereafter, take all measures required by the Association to 
initiate the second phase of the Program.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, works, services and Incremental Operating Costs required for 
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time 
to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR2,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests 
for deposits into the Special Account at such 
intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Page  16
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the 
documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All 
such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association 
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and 
other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if, the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  17
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
