                                                                                                                                 86352
                a,,,
           eeVXONALt                EL    Opr4-                                                                                      FN

                                     ~
                                 ______       ~~~          11Th                                 1~~~.                   COr~~~I~DS2004AT1
  WORLD        BANK

                                                                                                                       December 18, 2000
                                          ~~~ON~~~~~~A~~~~~V                                            ~~~05:44:27                        PM
                                             DA           'P~~INA4C~




Statement by Jan Piercy
Date of Meeting: December 19, 2000

                       Djibouti: Country Assistance Strategy and School Access and
                                                    Improvement Program

Introduction:

1.     Djibouti's needs are clear, but unfortunately reflect internal mismanagement as well as
external pressures. While the CAS outlines a new strategy, it is disappointing that the
government has not yet developed clear plans to implement sound poverty alleviation strategies.
Moreover, the current portfolio's "at risk" status raises questions about the government's
conmitment to fundamental change.

Country Assistance Strategy:

2.     The two pillars upon which the CAS is building -- improvement in key social sectors and
sustainable economic and employment growth -- are critical. While there are some gaps in the
CAS and the government's strategies, the CAS does highlight important issues.

3.       We support the CAS' focus on improving primary school enrollment and increasing
literacy, especially among women. In particular, we commend the actions targeted at addressing
girls' low primary school enrollment and retention. Djibouti's worsening health indicators are
alarming. We agree with the assumption that health expenditures must increase, but we are
surprised that the government has not developed a more detailed plan. As the health strategy
evolves we look forward to attention to HIV/AIDS and population growth. A population growth
rate of 2.8 percent is unsustainable.

4.     The CAS' candid attention to female genital mutilation is critical. The negative affect on
Djibouti women is addressed by the 1995 law prohibiting the practice, but that law must be
enforced. The CAS' outline of other donors' work in this area is extremely useful. We support
their work and urge the government to include female genital mutilation in its overall policy
reform framework.

5.     The CAS' attention to building a viable investment environment is imperative if a strong,
sustainable growth strategy is to be achieved. Attention to fostering genuine competitiveness
and reforming fundamental laws and regulations are critical components for building an


This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
                                                                   2




environment attractive to investors. The CAS' focus on labor is also important. Completion,
passage and enforcement of the draft labor law is a key component of building a competitive,
modern investment environment. All these actions must be complemented by sustained
commitment to accelerated privatization. With unemployment as high as 50 percent, a sound,
steady growth strategy is imperative.

6.      While we commend the focus stated in the two pillars, we are concerned that there is not
sufficient attention to building government capacity. The governance reform addresses this issue
in a limited way. We question whether Djibouti's country strategy can succeed without more
direct effort toward building capacity and would appreciate staff comment.

School Access Project:

7.      In a country where the portfolio is 75 percent at risk and two out of four projects were
rated unsatisfactory, we expect the Bank and government to monitor the APL closely as it is a
yet untested instrument.

8.      That said, we have some comfort in the precise triggers and appropriate sequencing.
The project correctly focuses on building capacity first and follows with support to expansion. It
is important to take sufficient time for phase I to accomplish all the objectives set out. As in the
CAS, we commend the specific attention to improving girls enrollment in primary school.

Conclusion:

9.     While we support the project and endorse the CAS, the failure to address population
growth and the lack of sufficient priority accorded government capacity building troubles us.
These two issues are fundamental to achieving sustainable development in Djibouti.




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without the consent of the Executive Director concerned.
